==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

1A - G 46356 - 04 (02/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

PROCLAMATION BY THE HONOURABLE PRESIDENT

SVASTI !

TO all to whom these presents shall come, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Head of State, Head of the Executive and of the Government, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.

Send Greetings:

Whereas, I am desirous of awarding a commemorative medal to all ranks of the Regular and Volunteer Force of the Air Force and civil employees of the approved cadre of the Air Force of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Air Force.

Now, therefore, it is my will and pleasure to institute, constitute, and create a new Medal, which will be greatly appreciated by all ranks of the Air Force of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka who are duly qualified to receive the award.

SealAnura Kumara Dissanayake

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රයඅති විශෙˤෂ

අංංක 2477/35 - 2026 ‍‍පෙෙබරවාාරි මස 25 වැැනි බදාාදාා - 2026.02.25No. 2477/35 - WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2026

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'25Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.20262A

Wherefore, the rules and regulations for the governance of same are made, ordained and established by me, and shall henceforth be inviolably kept:

Firstly:

Style and Designation - it is ordained that, this Medal shall be styled and designated the “75TH AIR FORCE ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL”.

Secondly:

Description - The Medal shall be shaped form made of cupronickel signifying the protection of the sovereignty of Sri Lanka by the Sri Lanka Air Force, with the Commander as its Head with the assistance of the Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, Director Generals, Directors, Dean, Base Commanders, Commanding Officers in accordance to the 10 Principles of War against the enemy, in the center, the figure 75 which signifies the celebration of 75th Anniversary of the Sri Lanka Air Force and keeping the slogan of the Sri Lankan Air Force “Surakimu Lakambara” in Sinhala at its above and the wording of ‘Sri Lanka Air Force’ in Sinhala at the below of the figure of 75. On the right side to the figure 75, three aircrafts in flight mode shall be depicted including a fighter aircraft, a winged aircraft and a helicopter symbolizing the combat power and transportation capabilities of the Sri Lanka Air Force. On the reverse side in the center, the Sri Lanka Air Force emblem and left side from the emblem, the year of 1951 and right side from the emblem, the year 2026, denoting the establishment of the Sri Lanka Air Force and the date of the 75th Anniversary of the Sri Lanka Air Force respectively, while the wording of ‘Sri Lanka Air Force’ in Sinhala in the above of the emblem and the wording of ‘Sri Lanka Air Force’ in Tamil in below of the emblem and on the reverse the shape of petals symbolizing the blue water lily flower shall represent Sri Lanka Air Force Academy and Base Camps while the triangular shapes of the petals shall represent the seventeen (17) Sri Lanka Air Force Base Camps.

Thirdly:

Ribbon - The Medal Ribbon shall be in 30 mm in length and 10 mm in width, which consists Nine strips, from left to right Four equal strips with colors of Yellow, Maroon, Dark Green, Orange, the center in Light Blue color, again equal strips with opposite order of first four colors, as the colors of Orange, Dark Green, Maroon and at last Yellow.

Fourthly:

Eligibility - It is ordained that the medal shall be awarded to all service personnel, permanent civil service personnel and all Cadet Officers, Student Officers and Apprentices who are in active service (approval should be granted to wear the medal only after the commissioning/ passing out) with a commendable, loyal and immaculate service on the Second Day of March Two Thousand and Twenty Six and all the personnel who are recommended by the Commander of the Air Force as appropriate to receive the award under the terms and conditions defines in the regulations hereinafter made.

Fifthly:

Registration - It is ordained that the names of all those to whom the Medal is awarded shall be published in the Service Order of the Air Force and a register of such names shall be maintained under the direction of the respective Service Commanders.

Sixthly:

Order of Wear - It is ordained that in the official list showing the order in which Orders, Decorations and Medals shall be worn, the 75TH AIR FORCE ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL shall be worn immediately before the Sri Lanka Air Force 50th Anniversary Medal reserved for celebrating the special date.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'25Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2026

3A

Seventhly:

Miniatures - It is ordained that reproductions in miniature known as Miniature Medals, which may be worn on certain occasions by those to whom the Medal is awarded, shall be approximately half the size of the Award and a sealed pattern of the Miniature Medal shall be kept in the Air Force Headquarters.

Eighthly:

Forfeiture and Restoration - It is ordained that as the President, I am vested with the power to cancel and annul the award of a Medal made to any person, and the power to restore an award so forfeited under the Regulations hereinafter made. The notice of cancellation or restoration in every case shall be published in the Service Order of the Air Force.

Given at Presidential Secretariat under the Public Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 24th of February, Two Thousand and Twenty-Six. By Order of the Honourable President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

75TH AIR FORCE ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL

REGULATIONS made by the Honourable President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka; to grant, forfeit, restore the 75th Air Force Anniversary Commemorative Medal and other matters in amplification of the provisions set out in the Presidential Warrant. By Order of the Honourable President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

Presidential Secretariat,Colombo - 01,February 24, 2026.

Regulations of 75th Air Force Anniversary Commemorative Medal

1. The medal shall be awarded to all service personnel, permanent civil service personnel and all Cadet Officers, Student Officers and Apprentices who are in active service (approval should be granted to wear the medal only after the commissioning/ passing out) with a commendable, loyal and immaculate service on the Second Day of March Two Thousand and Twenty Six and all the personnel who are recommended by the Commander of the Air Force as appropriate to receive the award under the terms and conditions defines in the regulations hereinafter made.

2. The following personnel are not eligible to receive the Medals:-

(a) Personnel who are Absence without Leave (AWOL) or have deserted the service as of 01st March, 2026.

(b) Those who have caused self-inflicted injuries or attempted suicide and deliberately avoided duties as of 01st March, 2026.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'25Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.20264A

3. Every recommendation shall be submitted with the Number, Rank and Name in Full of the person recommended.

4. The names of all those to whom the Medal is awarded shall be published in the Service Orders of the Air Force and a register of such recipients shall be maintained under the direction of the Air Force Commander.

5. While being a recipient of the Medal, every person of the Air Force who is cashiered, discharged with disgrace, removed, who has been called upon to resign his Commission or retire, in the Air Force shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless the Honourable President shall otherwise direct.

6. A person who, while being a recipient of the Medal, is convicted of an offence of treason, sedition, mutiny, cowardice, disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind, or is discharged for misconduct or who is convicted by the civil authorities while being subject to the laws of the Air Force, shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless the Honourable President shall otherwise direct.

7. A Medal forfeited by any person may be restored by the Honourable President at his discretion.

8. A notice of forfeiture or restoration shall in every instance be published in the Service Order of the Air Force.

9. Where an officer, airman or a civil employee, who is desirous of replacing a Medal that has been lost, a declaration must be submitted by the officer, airman or a civil employee concerned to his Commanding Officer/Superior Officer, stating the circumstances under which the loss occurred. This declaration should then be transmitted to the Honourable President through the due process. Where the explanation given as to the loss is considered satisfactory, another Medal may be obtained in lieu of the lost Medal after due payment.

10. Loss of medal, forfeitures and restorations are to be recorded and details of the same to be available at the Air Force headquarters.

11. In these regulations, it shall be considered that –

(a) “Air Force” means - The Sri Lanka Air Force

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'25Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2026

5A

EOG 02 - 0210

75TH AIR FORCE ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL

FRONT BACK

RIBBON

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.