w;s úfYI

wxl 2373$43 - 2024 ud¾;= ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'03'01No. 2373/43 - Friday, march 01, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - PG 6661 - 05 (03/2024) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L. D. D. 4/2007The ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961

rules made by the Ayurvedic Medical Council under section 49(1)(a), (2) & (3) of the ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961, read with section 19(1)(a) and (2) of the aforesaid Act..

Chairman, Ayurvedic Medical Council.

Colombo,07th February, 2024.

Rules

1. These Rules May be cited as the Ayurvedic Officers and Servant (Conditions of Service) Rules No. 01 of 2023.

Registrar to the aYurvedic Medical Council

2. The Person appointed by the Ayurvedic Medical Council (hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) as the Registrar to the Council under section 19(1)(a) of the Act shall-

(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka; (b) be an Ayurvedic Practitioner registered with the Council;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.03.20242A

(c) be a,

(i) Bachelor of Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery (BAMS); (ii) Bachelor of Siddha Medicine and Surgery (BSMS); (iii) Bachelor of Unani Medicine and Surgery (BUMS); (iv) Diploma holder in Siddha Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery (DSAMS); or (v) Diploma holder in Siddha Ayurveda Certificate (DSAC),

awarded by a university or an affiliated institute recognized under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;

(d) be Ayurvedic Practitioner employed either in the public service or in any other service recognized under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978; (e) possess fifteen years post-qualifying experience in such service; (f) be proficient in Sinhala and Tamil languages and English language shall be an added qualification; (g) be not less than forty-five years and not more than sixty years of age on the date of appointment.

3. The person appointed as the Registrar as referred to in rule 2 shall be a person with good moral character and shall possess satisfactory career record for the immediately preceding period of five years.

4. The Registrar to the Council shall not -

(a) have conflict of interest with the activities of the Council (b) operate of be involved in the operation of any private institution engaged in training Ayurveda Practitioners; (c) engage in either on his own or in collaboration with any other person the business of manufacturing, marketing or distribution of Ayurveda drugs; (d) serve as a consultant to any local or foreign company engaged in the business of distributing any Ayurveda drugs or in any activity which promotes such business; (e) be convicted for any criminal offence by a Court of Law; or (f) be a person who has been penalised for any professional misconduct by the Council.

5. The duties and functions of the Registrar shall be-

(a) to serve as the Secretary to the Council; (b) to manage the affairs of the Council including conducting written and oral tests in respect of the registration of traditional Ayurveda Practitioners (c) to carry out all correspondence work on behalf of the Council; (d) to assist in the financial matters of the council (e) to have and to hold the seal of the Council; (f) to maintain registers of Ayurveda Practitioners, Ayurveda Pharmacists and Ayurveda Nurses in terms of the provisions of the Act; (g) to convene meetings of the Council and to record and maintain minutes of the proceedings of such meetings; (h) to notify the decisions of the Council over disciplinary matters of registered Ayurveda Practitioners and execute such decisions; (i) to exercise management and disciplinary control over the staff of the Council; and (j) to perform such other functions as are assigned to him by the Council in furtherance of the objects and functions of the Council.

6. (1) The applications for the post of the Registrar shall be called by way of an advertisement published in a daily newspaper in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.

(2) The selection of the candidate most suitable for the relevant post shall be made through a structured interview carried out by an interview board comprised of-

(a) the Chairman of the Ayurvedic Medical Council who shall serve as the Chairman of the interview board

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.03.2024

3A

(b) two Members of the Ayurvedic Medical Council selected from among the membership of such Council; and (c) a senior officer of the Department of Ayurveda who shall be of the rank of an Assistant Commissioner.

(3) The interview board shall recommend a candidate to the Council to be appointed as the Registrar.

7. The Council shall appoint the candidate recommended by the interview board, as the Registrar to the Council and he shall be subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the Minister.

8. The term of office of the Registrar shall be for a period of three years and may be re-appointed for a second term.

9. The office of the Registrar shall become vacant-

(a) on his attaining age of sixty years or on the expiry of his term of service; (b) upon his death; (c) on resignation in writing addressed to the chairman of the council (d) on his removal by the Council on account of grave dereliction of duty or serious misconduct or incapacity; or (e) on a resolution adopted by the Council with two-third majority of the membership of the Council in favour of removing him from office.

10. Where the post of Registrar falls vacant due to reasons specified in rule 9, the Council shall appoint any of the members of the Council to act as the Registrar, until the appointment of a person to fill such vacancy under the provisions of section 19(1)(a) of the Act.

11. The Registrar of the Council may be remunerated in such manner as may, from time to time, be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister to whom the subject of Finance has been assigned.

Officers and servants of the Ayurvedic Medical Council

12. Criteria for appointment of officers and servants of the Council and their promotions, dismissal and disciplinary control shall be in accordance with relevant Scheme of Recruitment (SOR) for the respective post, prepared by the Council.

13. The officers and servants of the Council may be remunerated in such manner as may, from time to time, be determined by the minister with the concurrence of the Minister to whon the subject of Finance has been assigned.

14. For the purposes of these Rules –

“Ayurvedic Practitioner” means Ayurvedic medical practitioner who is for the time being registered as such in the General Register or in the Special Register maintained by the Council; and

“Council” means the Ayurvedic Medical Council established under section 11 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 3 of 1961.

EOG 03 - 0008

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.