==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025

ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ ගැසŸ පƴය

අƯ ɪෙශෂThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

අංක 2461/26 – 2025 ෙනʣවැȼබə මස 06 වැǧ ȯහස්පƯǦදා – 2025.11.06

No. 2461/26 – THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 06, 2025

(Published by Authority)

PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notiﬁcations

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATIONISSUANCE OF OFFICIAL MEDIA ACCREDITATIONS FOR THE YEARS 2026/2027

The Department of Government Information, in alignment with the Government’s responsibility to foster a free and unhindered environment essential for media institutions and professionals to discharge their duties, and committed to promoting a robust and high-quality media culture, grants ofﬁcial Media Accreditations to professional journalists. This is intended to enhance their professional quality, safeguard their professional dignity, and facilitate the unobstructed execution of their journalistic mission.

For the purpose of issuing these media accreditations, “a person who gathers, writes, edits the news and information, and communicates the gathered news and information to the receivers through print, electronic, or web media” shall be considered as a journalist. Media accreditations will be issued only to media professionals engaged in such duties.

01. General Instructions for Recommending Applications for Media Accreditation I. All Heads and Authorized Ofﬁcers of Print, Electronic, and Web Media Institutions shall ensure that only the applications submitted by professional journalists serving in the media institution are recommended when recommending applications for obtaining these media accreditation cards.

1A – G 045720– 04 (11/2025)

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06

PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025 2A

II. It facilitates the issuance process of media accreditation cards, if an Authorized Ofﬁcer is nominated by the head of media institution to recommend the applications of journalists/media professionals relevant to the media institution, the name, National Identity Card (NIC) number, designation, ofﬁcial telephone number, specimen signature, and ofﬁcial stamp of the nominated ofﬁcer must be sent to the Media Identity Card Unit of the Department of Government Information by the end of the year 2025. If the nominated ofﬁcer should be replaced for any reason, the respective Heads of Media Institutions should promptly inform the Department of Government Information about the newly nominated ofﬁcer.

III. Applications submitted by trainees/interns who are not professional journalists / media professionals of the media institution shall not be recommended under any circumstances. (Media Accreditation shall not be issued to trainees/interns for any reason.)

IV. Along with the applications, a covering letter conﬁrming the details and recommending the grant of media accreditation for the journalists / media professional shall be sent under the institution’s letterhead, bearing the signature and ofﬁcial stamp of the relevant Head of the Media Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer, accompanied with the details of journalists / media professionals whose applications are submitted by the respective media institution (according to “Table No. 01”). All applications whose names are not mentioned in that cover letter shall be rejected.

Serial No.NameNational Identity Card NumberDesignationDivision Served

(Table 01)

V. A covering letter conﬁrming the details and recommending the grant of media accreditation for the provincial journalists shall be sent under the institution’s letterhead, bearing the signature and ofﬁcial stamp of the relevant Head of the Media Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer, and including the details of the provincial journalists whose applications are submitted by the respective media institution (according to “Table No. 02”). The relevant information shall be presented separately by district. Furthermore, a soft copy of this name list shall be submitted to the email address id@dgi.gov.lk (The Head of the Media Institution or the Authorized Ofﬁcer shall ensure that only the names of active reporters currently engaged in news reporting are included in the list.) All applications whose names are not mentioned in that cover letter shall be rejected.

Serial No.

Name of the Provincial Journalist

National Identity Card Number

Permanent Address

Phone Number / Numbers of the Journalist

District and the Area Covered

01

02

(Table 02)

VI. The full responsibility for the name lists submitted by media institutions for obtaining Media Accreditation and the accuracy of the information contained therein shall rest with the Head of the Media Institution or the

3AI ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025

Authorised Ofﬁcer who certiﬁes the document. The person certifying the letter requesting the issuance of Media Accreditation must also certify every page of the name list with their signature and ofﬁcial stamp.

VII. In addition to the submission of these overall name lists, it shall be compulsory that each individual application be recommended by the Head of the Media Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer with their signature and ofﬁcial stamp.

VIII. This Media Accreditation is granted for the biennium 2026/2027 and the corresponding Media Accreditation Card shall be valid from the date of issuance until 31.12.2027.

IX. It shall be the responsibility of the Head of the Media Institution to return the media accreditation of a journalist who is terminated from / leaves the service of the media institution to the Director General of Government Information. Accreditation shall not be re-issued for a replacement until the previous Accreditation is returned. The Head of the Media Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer shall ensure that such applications are not recommended.

X. If complaints are received regarding the misuse of the Media Accreditation Card for personal gain, the Director General of Government Information shall have the full authority to investigate the matter and cancel the relevant Media Accreditation. In such an event, it shall be the responsibility of the Head of the Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer who recommended the grant of Accreditation to bring and hand over the cancelled Media Accreditation Card to the Department of Government Information within two days upon notiﬁcation from the Director General of Government Information or his Authorised Representative.

02. The essential information that should be attentive by the applicants when applying for a Media Accreditation and classiﬁcation of Media Accreditation

I. For the years 2026/2027, ofﬁcial Media Accreditation will be granted under the following classiﬁcations, in accordance with the criteria speciﬁed for each type. When submitting the applications, applicants and those recommending the accreditation shall pay attention in respective of those criteria.

A. JournalistB. Freelance JournalistC. Foreign Journalist (Temporary)D. Media AdministratorE. TechnicianF. Media Services

II. A journalist / media professional who has received an ofﬁcial Media Accreditation Card not exceeding the valid period for a media institution and subsequently leaves / is terminated from the service of the media institution mentioned in the media accreditation shall only be granted new Accreditation for another media institution or as a freelance journalist after the ofﬁcial Media Accreditation Card is handed over to the Director General of Government Information. Such a journalist / media professional should draw attention in that respect when submitting an application.

III. Only those who have been employed as a journalist / media professional in a recognised media institution on a permanent or contract basis for a period exceeding a minimum of 06 months should apply for this ofﬁcial Media Accreditation. (Accreditation shall not be granted to trainees and interns.)

IV. All applicants should submit their application along with a copy of their Ofﬁcial Identity Card and a copy of their National Identity Card or valid Passport or valid Driving License, endorsed by their institutional head or his authorized ofﬁcer with their signature and placing an ofﬁcial stamp including their name, designation,

I ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06

PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025 4A

and the name of the media institution. (The Director General of Government Information or his Authorised Representatives also reserve the right to inspect the Ofﬁcial Identity Card of any applicant, if deemed necessary.)

V. On the occasion of the Ofﬁcial Identity Card cannot be produced, a copy of the Letter of Appointment certiﬁed by the Head of the Institution or his authorized ofﬁcer with their signature and ofﬁcial stamp including their name, designation, and the name of the media institution must be submitted.

VI. All sections of the application must be completed accurately, either in clear handwriting or printed. Unclear or incomplete applications will be rejected without any acknowledgment, and an accurately completed application should be resubmitted if it is necessary to obtain the Media Accreditation.

VII. Two photographs shall be submitted along with the application as speciﬁed below:

• The photograph shall have been taken within three (03) months prior to the date of application.• The photograph shall not be digitally or otherwise edited in any manner.• The size of the photograph shall be 3.5 cm × 4.5 cm (passport-size photograph).• The photograph shall be a clear, colour photograph with a white or light blue background. (When taking the photograph, care should be taken to ensure that the colour of the clothing and hair does not blend with the background colour, so that all features appear clearly. This will contribute to producing a higher-quality media accreditation card.)• One photograph shall be afﬁxed ﬁrmly in the designated space of the application, and the other photograph must be enclosed in an envelope and attached to the application so that it is not damaged.

VIII. Applications that do not adhere to the expected speciﬁed standards/scales and applications without attached photographs that are unclear or of poor quality will be rejected by the Media Identity Card Unit of the Department of Government Information.

IX. Honoriﬁc epithets and educational qualiﬁcations shall not be included in the media accreditation. The name of the journalist and the profession will only be indicated in the media accreditation.

X. The media accreditations shall not be issued using pen names (pseudonyms) for journalists who write news or feature articles/scripts for programmes under pen names.

XI. When submitting an application for this Media Accreditation, the applicant should pay attention to the points in Section 03, identify the relevant type of Accreditation, and ensure that only the application prescribed for that speciﬁc type is submitted. Applications that do not conform to the prescribed format shall be rejected.

03. Criteria, application procedure, and additional documents need to be submitted for Grant of Media Accreditation by category.

A. Journalist

I. The Journalist Accreditation is granted to journalists in the institutional service of Print (newspapers, magazines, and periodicals), Electronic (television and radio), and Web media institutions. II. Along with the applications submitted to obtain Media Accreditation under this category, the applicant’s photographs must be submitted in accordance with paragraph 02. VII of this Gazette Notiﬁcation. III. The following conditions shall apply to each type of media institution:

a. Newspaper, Magazine, and Periodicals

• In order to conﬁrm that the (Newspaper / Magazine / Periodical) applying for media accreditation cards is published continuously, copies of the such published News during the immediate preceding

5AI ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025

6 months from the date of applying the media accreditation cards (only if necessary) and a copy of the Certiﬁcate of Registration from the National Archives Department must be submitted, certiﬁed by the Head of the Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer with their name, signature, and ofﬁcial stamp.

• All Newspapers / Magazines / Periodicals applying for media accreditation cards must be submitted with a copy of the Certiﬁcate of Registration with the Sri Lanka Press Council relevant to that newspaper / magazine / periodical, certiﬁed by the Head of the Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer with their own name, signature, and Ofﬁcial stamp.

• Supplementary publications issued along with a certain newspaper, shall not be considered as separate newspapers and such applications should be submitted only by the name of the main newspaper. (Media accreditations are issued by the name of the main newspaper but not by the name of the supplements.)

• A maximum of 03 Media Accreditations will be granted for monthly periodicals, a maximum of 02 for bimonthly periodicals, and a maximum of 01 for quarterly periodicals. Media accreditation shall not be granted for six-monthly or annual periodicals / magazines etc.

• Media Accreditation shall not be granted to professionals who publish the handbooks related to various subject areas or publications that exclude news and current affairs information.

b. Electronic (radio and television) media institutions.

• The Radio and Television media institutions requesting media identity cards must submit copies of the licenses issued for electronic broadcasting services by the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka and the Ministry of Mass Media, certiﬁed by the Head of the Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer with their name, signature, and ofﬁcial stamp.

• Media Accreditation shall be granted only to journalists in the news division (subject to a maximum of 10) of Cable Television (Cable TV), Satellite Television (Satellite TV), and Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) institutions that broadcast at least 05 news and current affairs programmes per week. The relevant institutions should submit a programme schedule of their channel.

• Further, the Cable TV Institutions, Satellite Institutions, and Internet Protocol Television (IPTV) Institutions that apply for media accreditation should forward their applications along with copies of the licenses issued by the Sri Lanka Telecommunication Regulation Commission and the Ministry in charge of the subject of mass media issued for the electronic telecast services endorsed by the head of the media institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer by placing his name, signature, and ofﬁcial stamp.

c. Web Media Institutions

• Media Accreditation shall be granted only to journalists employed by websites that report news and current affairs and hold a valid registration for the year 2026 with the Ministry of Mass Media. (Media identity cards will not be issued for peripheral positions such as Web Chairman / Web Administrator / Governor / Administrative Director.)

• Therefore, every news website applying for media accreditation cards shall submit a copy of the Certiﬁcate of Valid Registration for the year 2026, issued by the Ministry of Mass Media, certiﬁed by the Head of the Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer with their name, signature, and ofﬁcial stamp, along with the application form.

• Furthermore, every news website applying for media accreditation cards must be registered as a business (Business Registration), and a copy of the Business Registration Certiﬁcate must be

I ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06

PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025 6A

submitted, certiﬁed by the Head of the Institution or the Authorised Ofﬁcer with their name, signature, and Ofﬁcial stamp.

• Special attention should be drawn to the active status, objectives, subscriber count, daily updates, and other relevant factors of the website when granting Media Accreditation.

• Only websites that have been daily and continuously updated for a minimum period of six months shall be eligible for obtaining Media Accreditation, and at least 50% of the content published on the website must comprise news and current affairs.

• A maximum of two media accreditations per language medium (Sinhala, Tamil, or English only) shall be granted for websites.

• In instances where further conﬁrmation of information regarding an application submitted by a web journalist for obtaining Media Accreditation is deemed necessary, the Accreditation shall be granted only after referring the application to the relevant parties and obtaining reports.

• Media Accreditation shall not be granted to professionals attached to institutional websites belonging to state institutions, including government ministries, departments, and state-afﬁliated institutions.

d. Foreign Media Institutions

• Media Accreditation shall be granted only to journalists who are permanently employed by internationally recognised foreign media institutions and have been appointed by those institutions as representatives / correspondents in Sri Lanka.

• The Accreditation shall be granted only after the information furnished by the applicant is further conﬁrmed by the relevant foreign media institution.

• A Service Certiﬁcate issued by the head of the relevant foreign media institution conﬁrming the applicant’s employment should be compulsorily submitted with the application.

• In instances where further conﬁrmation of information regarding an application submitted for a Foreign Journalist Accreditation is deemed necessary, the Accreditation shall be granted only after referring the application to the relevant parties and obtaining the necessary reports.

e. Provincial Journalists

• Media Accreditation shall be granted to Provincial Journalists of web media institutions, Cable TV Institutions, Satellite TV Institutions, IPTV Institutions, monthly periodicals, bimonthly periodicals, and quarterly periodicals, subject to the maximum number of Accreditations granted for those media institutions. Other media institutions should only recommend Accreditation for journalists who are actively supplying news to their media institution.

• When submitting applications, “Provincial Journalist Accreditation” must be clearly stated on the top left corner of the envelope.

B. Freelance Journalist

I. The applicant should have a minimum period of one-year continuous service as a Freelance Journalist in a nationally recognised print, electronic, or web media institution.

II. Along with the application for Freelance Journalist Accreditation, a letter must be submitted on the letterhead of at least one institution to which the applicant supplies news, feature articles, or contributes to current affairs

7AI ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025

programmes. The letter shall be signed and ofﬁcially stamped by the Head or an Authorized Representative of the institution, conﬁrming that the applicant continuously provides such contributions to that media institution.

III. Furthermore, to conﬁrm this, certiﬁed photocopies or Compact Discs (CDs) of at least twelve (12) news and current events reports / features / photo essays / photographs, etc., published under the applicant’s name within the six-month period prior to the application date, should be presented.

IV. Freelance Journalist Accreditation shall be granted for web media institutions only subject to the maximum number of Accreditations granted for web media institutions.

V. Along with the applications submitted to obtain Media Accreditation under this category, the applicant’s photographs must be submitted in accordance with paragraph 02. VII of this Gazette Notiﬁcation.

C. Foreign Journalist- Temporary

I. The “Foreign Journalist - Temporary Accreditation” shall be granted to foreign journalists visiting Sri Lanka to cover news and current affairs events of special signiﬁcance, compile articles, and produce news-worthy documentary programmes.

II. The applicant should submit a Service Certiﬁcate issued by the head of the foreign media institution with and the Approval Letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs along with the application.

III. The applicant should submit the application along with the valid passport and photocopy of the page which includes the personal information of the Passport holder.

IV. Along with the applications submitted to obtain Media Accreditation under this category, the applicant’s photographs must be submitted in accordance with paragraph 02. VII of this Gazette Notiﬁcation. The photograph on the Passport cannot be submitted for this purpose.

D. Media Administrator

I. The Media Administrator Accreditation shall be granted to Media Administrators who directly contribute to media administration in nationally recognised media institutions (maximum of three per media institution).

II. This Accreditation shall not be granted to Sales Promotion Directors / Managers / Welfare Ofﬁcers or other ofﬁcers engaged in the sales promotion ﬁeld in media institutions.

III. Along with the applications submitted to obtain Media Accreditation under this category, the applicant’s photographs must be submitted in accordance with paragraph 02. VII of this Gazette Notiﬁcation.

E. Technician

I. This Accreditation shall be granted to technical personnel directly engaged in ﬁeld media coverage work in electronic media institutions.

II. Along with the applications submitted to obtain Media Accreditation under this category, the applicant’s photographs must be submitted in accordance with paragraph 02. VII of this Gazette Notiﬁcation.

F. Media Services

I. The Media Services Accreditation shall be granted to individuals holding media-related positions who directly contribute to ﬁeld media coverage as per the directive of the news and current affairs divisions of media institutions.

I ෙකʣටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.11.06

PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.11.2025 8A

II. Along with the applications submitted to obtain Media Accreditation under this category, the applicant’s photographs must be submitted in accordance with paragraph 02. VII of this Gazette Notiﬁcation.

04. Under this, media accreditations will NOT be issued for the following professionals.

I. Individuals holding positions in media institutions that are not directly relevant to journalism, such as Management Assistants / Coordinators.

II. Professionals employed by advertising agencies, commercial advertisement and video production companies, and media institutions that DO NOT report on news and current events.

III. Artists engaged in the ﬁeld of performing arts, such as cinema / teledrama / theatre.

05. General Conditions

I. The Media Accreditation must be used only for media duties. If misuse or actions contrary to journalistic ethics are reported, the Director General of Government Information reserves the rights to recall or cancel such Media Accreditation.

II. Applications for media Accreditations for the years 2026/2027 will be accepted until March 31, 2026. Applications received after the deadline and the incomplete applications will be rejected.

III. Applications could be downloaded from the websites www.dgi.gov.lk or www.news.lk. Duly completed applications must be sent by registered post or handed over to the Director General of Government Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapana Mawatha, Colombo-05.

IV. When requesting a new media accreditation for a misplaced media accreditation, a copy of the police complaint lodged in respect of misplacing media accreditation, should be submitted with the application.

V. The Director General of Information reserves the absolute authority to investigate complaints regarding the misuse of the Media Accreditation for personal gain and cancel the Media Accreditation of the relevant journalists.

VI. The absolute authority in making the ﬁnal decision with regard to the issuance of media accreditations and effecting changes as required to the above terms and conditions and provisions is vested in the Director-General of the Department of Government Information.

H.S.K.J. Bandara, Director General of Government Information.

EOG 11-0049

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.