THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of June 28, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 04.07.2024)

PENAL CODE (AMENDMENT)

to amend the Penal Code (Chapter 19)

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

2-2d

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

A

BILL

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs andConstitutional Reforms

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 345 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and the legaleffect of the amendment is to–

(a)extend the application of that section to a sexual harassment caused by means ofany communication;

(b)define the series of activities by which the sexual harassment may cause byusing words or actions; and

(c)define the expression “communication”.

Penal Code (Amendment)1

5

L.D.—O 55/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PENAL CODE ( CHAPTER 19 )

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Penal Code (Amendment)Act, No of 2024.

2. Section 345 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

345. (1) Whoever, by assault or use ofcriminal force, or by the use of words or actionsor by means of any communication, causessexual annoyance or harassment to anotherperson commits the offence of sexualharassment and shall on conviction bepunished with imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term which may extend tofive years or with fine or with both and mayalso be ordered to pay compensation of anamount determined by court to the person inrespect of whom the offence was committedfor the injuries caused to such person.

(2) The “use of words or actions” referredto in subsection (1) which amount to sexualharassment includes –

(a)making any sound or gesture;

(b)exhibiting any object;

(c)disrobing or compelling suchperson to be naked;

10

20

25

Replacementof section345 ofChapter 19 “Sexualharassment

Short title

15

2Penal Code (Amendment)

(d)physical contact and advancesinvolving unwelcome andexplicit sexual overtures;

(e)demanding or requesting forsexual favours;

(f)showing pornography againstthe will of such person;

(g)making sexually colouredremarks; or

(h)exposing genitals with theintention of causing alarm ordistress.

(3) The “communication” referred to insubsection (1) which amount to sexualharassment includes transmitting, distributing,sharing, generating, propagating or publishingany sexually explicit message, remark, image,audio or video through electronic means orinternet.

(4) For the purposes of this section, anassault may include any act that does notamount to rape under section 363 or gravesexual abuse under section 365B.

Explanation – “injuries” includespsychological or mentaltrauma.”.

3. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

5

10

15

20

25

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency

Penal Code (Amendment)3

Department of Government Printing