==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

අංංක 2473/16 - 2026 ජනවාාරි මස 28 වැැනි බදාාදාා - 2026.01.28No. 2473/16 - WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2026

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - G 46198 - 355 (01/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

LD.CF 1/64THE PUBLIC SECURITY ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 40)

REGULATIONS made by the President under section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).

Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President

Colombo,January 28, 2026.

REGULATIONS

1. These regulations may be cited as the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and Powers) Regulations, No. 1 of 2026.

PART I

GENERAL

2. (1) In these regulations, unless any other definition is expressly provided therein or unless it is otherwise expressly provided therein or the context otherwise requires —

“competent authority” means any person appointed by name or by office by the President to be a competent authority for the purpose of these regulations;

Short title

Interpretation

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.20262A

“essential service” means any service which is of public utility or essential for preservation of public order or to the life of the community, and includes any department of Government or branch thereof;

“land” includes land covered with water and parts of houses or buildings;

“police officer” means a member of any police force established under the Police Ordinance (Chapter 53);

“public officer” shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution;

“requisitioning” means, in relation to any vehicle, the taking possession of the vehicle or requiring the vehicle to be placed at the disposal of the requisitioning authority, and its grammatical variations or cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly;

“Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Defence” includes any Additional Secretary to the Ministry of Defence;

“Sri Lanka” means the territory of Sri Lanka and includes the territorial waters of Sri Lanka and airspace; and

“territorial waters” shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution.

(2) The Interpretation Ordinance (Chapter 2) shall apply to the interpretation of these regulations and of any Orders or rules made thereunder, as it applies to the interpretation of an Act, Ordinance or Law.

(3) Where any provision of these regulations requires or enables a period to be specified in any direction given or Order made thereunder, and such direction or Order does not specify any such period, such period shall be deemed to be the period during which the provision under which such direction or Order is given or made remains in force.

3. Save as otherwise expressly provided, the powers conferred by these regulations shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of any other rights or powers which by law are vested in, or conferred on, the President or any other authority or person.

4. Any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on the President by these regulations may be exercised, performed or discharged by any Minister who is authorised in that behalf by the President.

5. (1) The President may appoint, by name or by office any person as competent authority for the purposes of these regulations made or may be made generally or specially for the whole of Sri Lanka or for any area or place specified in writing by which such person is appointed and may be limited to such of those purposes as may be specified in writing:

Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions of this paragraph shall be deemed to preclude the appointment of two or more persons to be competent authorities for any of the purposes of any regulation or for any specified area or place.

(2) Where the holder of a designated office has been appointed to be a competent authority, then, unless express provision is made to the contrary, the appointment shall be deemed to extend to the person for the time being performing the duties of the office designated.

Emergency powers to be in addition to the powers of the President

Delegation of powers of the President to any Minister

Appointment of the competent authority

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.2026

3A

6. Without prejudice to any special provisions contained in these regulations, a notice to be served on any person for the purpose of these regulations may be served by handing over such notice or by sending it by post addressed to that person at his last or usual place of abode or place of business.

7. Any power conferred by these regulations to make any Order or rule shall be construed as including a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like conditions, if any, to revoke or vary the Order or rule.

PART II

TAKING POSSESSION OF PREMISES, REQUISITIONING OF VEHICLES & c.

8. Where any building or premises other than private residential or commercial building or premises are necessary for relief work in connection with any natural disaster, the Superintendent of Police of the area shall take possession of such building or premises for such purpose and shall evict any person found therein and secure such premises from access to any unauthorised persons.

9. (1) If a competent authority is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the preservation of public order or for the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community, he may requisition any vehicle other than privately owned vehicle in Sri Lanka and may give such directions as appear to the competent authority to be necessary or expedient in connection with the requisitioning.

(2) Where a competent authority requisitions any vehicle under paragraph (1) of this regulation, the competent authority may use or deal with or authorise the use of or dealing with the vehicle for such purpose and in such manner as the competent authority thinks expedient in the preservation of public order or for the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.

(3) If a competent authority is of the opinion that it is necessary for the effectual exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph (1) of this regulation so to do he may by Order made as respects the whole of Sri Lanka or any specified area thereof, direct that no person who, at the time when the Order takes effect, has in his possession or under his control at any premises in the area to which the Order relates, any such vehicle as may be described in the Order, shall remove the vehicle, or cause or permit it to be removed, from the premises until the removal of the vehicle therefrom is permitted by such person or authority as may be specified in the Order.

(4) Any officer of the armed forces or any officer of the government shall, upon being requested to do so, aid and assist any person in the exercise of the powers conferred on that person by the preceding provisions of this regulation.

10. The President may, by Order published in the Gazette, under his hand, require, or may delegate to any one or more authorities or officers specified in that behalf, the power in like manner to require, any public officer to do any work or render any personal service in aid, or in connection with the maintenance of essential services. Any public officer who contravenes or fails to comply with any Order made under this regulation commits an offence.

11. (1) The President may, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, appoint any person by name or by office to be the Commissioner-General of Essential Services for the whole of Sri Lanka or any part thereof. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner-General of Essential Services to execute and coordinate all activities relating to the maintenance of essential services.

Service of notices

Revocation and variation of an Order, & c.

Requisitioning of premises

Requisitioning ofvehicles

Requisitioning ofPersonal Services

Appointment of the Commissioner General of Essential Services

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.20264A

(2) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may appoint, by name or by office, such Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners as may be necessary for the performance of his duties under these regulations.

(3) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may delegate to any Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner appointed under paragraph.

(2) any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assigned to such Commissioner-General by or under these regulations.

(4) For the purpose of the performance of duties under this regulation, the Commissioner General of Essential Services may exercise any power conferred on any authority or officer to whom any power under these regulations has been delegated.

(5) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may give to –

(a) any competent authority appointed under these regulations; and

(b) any officer or coordinating officer, to whom any power has been delegated under these regulations,

such directions as may be necessary for ensuring the maintenance of essential services, and it shall be the duty of such competent authority, officer or coordinating officer, as the case may be, to comply with every such direction.

12. (1) The President may, by Order published in the Gazette, declare any service to be an essential service if it appears to be so necessary for the maintenance and preservation of public order and for the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.

(2) Any person engaged or employed in any work, in connection with a service declared to be an essential service by the President in terms of paragraph (1), who –

(a) fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of such Order, to attend at his place of work or employment or such other place as may from time to time be designated by his employer or a person acting under the authority of his employer, or who fails or refuses without lawful excuse to work or keeps away from work, without working during the full period or any part of the normal working day as is required by him in accordance with the terms and conditions of his employment in such service;

(b) fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of such Order to perform such work as he may be directed by his employer or a person acting under the authority of his employer; or

(c) being a person engaged or employed in a essential service, fails or refuses without lawful excuse to perform such work as he may from time to time be directed by his employer or a person acting under the authority of his employer, to perform as such time or place within such periods as may be specified by such employer or such person for the performance of such work (whether such time or place or period is within or outside normal working hours or on holidays), notwithstanding that he has failed or refused to so attend or to so work in furtherance of a strike or other organized action,-

Essential Services

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.2026

5A

(i) be deemed for all purposes to have forthwith terminated or vacated his employment, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law or the terms and conditions of any contract governing his employment; and

(ii) in addition, be guilty of an offence.

(3) Where any service is declared to be an essential service by the President, by Order published in the Gazette -

(a) any person who, in any manner whatsoever –

(i) impedes, obstructs, delays or restricts the carrying on of that service;

(ii) impedes, obstructs, or prevents any other persons employed in, or in connection with the carrying on of that service, to refrain from attending at his place of work;

(iii) incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in or in connection with the carrying on of that service to refrain from attending at his place of work;

(iv) compels, incites, induces or encourages the establishment or maintenance of any other service in lieu of or parallel with that service being a government department or branch thereof;

(v) compels, incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in, or in connection with, the carrying on of that service, to surrender or depart from his employment (whether or not such other person does so surrender or depart in consequence); or

(vi) prevents any other person from offering or accepting employment in, or in connection with, the carrying on of that service; or

(b) any person who, by any physical act or by any speech or writing, incites, induces or encourages any other person to commit an act specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph (whether or not such other person commits in consequence any act so specified),

commits an offence.

(4) Any person who is deemed to have terminated or vacated his employment by reason of the operation of the provisions of paragraph (2) of this regulation shall vacate any quarters provided to him, by or on behalf of the government, within three days of such termination or vacation. Any person who fails to vacate such quarters within such period commits an offence under these regulations.

In this paragraph, “quarters” means any building or room or other accommodation occupied or used for the purpose of residence, and

includes any land or premises in which such building, room or other accommodation is situated.

(5) Where any service is declared to be an essential service, by the President, by Order published in the Gazette, the services of any officer, servant, employee or agent employed in or belonging to any such service declared to be essential may, whenever deemed to be necessary, be requisitioned by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Defence or any officer authorized by him in that behalf, in consultation with the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the relevant subject has been assigned.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.20266A

13. (1) The President may, by Order published in the Gazette, appoint any person by name or by office to be the Commissioner of Civil Security for the whole or any part of Sri Lanka. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Civil Security to execute and coordinate all activities relating to the maintenance of Civil Security.

(2) There may be appointed by name or by office, such Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners or competent authorities as may be necessary to assist the Commissioner of Civil Security in the performance of his duties under these regulations.

(3) The Commissioner of Civil Security may delegate to any Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner or competent authority any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such Commissioner, by or under these regulations.

(4) For the purpose of the performance of duties under these regulations, the Commissioner of Civil Security may exercise any power conferred on any authority or officer to whom any power under these regulations has been delegated under that regulation.

(5) The Commissioner of Civil Security may give to –

(a) any authority or officer, to whom any power has been delegated under these regulations; or

(b) a coordinating officer appointed under regulation 32,

such directions as may be necessary for ensuring the maintenance of Civil Security, and it shall be the duty of such authority or officer to comply with every such direction.

14. Every Divisional Secretary shall have the power to appoint for their respective Divisional Secretary’s Divisions, an Advisory Committee consisting of public officers and other recognised persons in the community. It shall be the duty of every such committee to advise the relevant authorities on the preservation of public order and the maintenance of essential supplies and services, in the Divisional Secretary’s Division.

15. (1) If a competent authority is of the opinion that special precautions shall be taken to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons into any area, place or premises wholly or mainly occupied or used for the maintenance of essential services, that competent authority may by Order direct that no person shall, subject to such exemptions as may be specified in the Order, enter or remain upon that area or place or those premises without the permission of such authority or person as may be specified in the Order.

(2) If any person is in any area, place or premises in contravention of an Order made under this regulation, then without prejudice to any other action that may be taken against him, he may be removed therefrom by any police officer or by any other person authorised in that behalf by a competent authority.

(3) In this regulation, “competent authority”, in relation to any essential service, means any person appointed by name or by office to be a competent authority for the purposes of that service by the President.

16. (1) Where, pursuant to a warning, direction or order issued by any State agency responsible for disaster management or public safety, the owner or occupier of any building or premises has temporarily abandoned such building or premises, the Superintendent of Police of the area may take such measures as may be necessary to secure, protect and preserve such building or premises.

Appointment of Commissioner of Civil Security

Advisory Committees

Protection of abandoned buildings or premises

Prevention of unauthorised entry

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.2026

7A

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by paragraph (1), such measures may include-

(a) restricting or preventing unauthorised entry into such building or premises;(b) sealing, barricading or placing such building or premises under guard; and(c) removing or preventing any act likely to result in damage, theft or unlawful occupation of such building or premises.

(3) No person shall, without lawful authority, enter, occupy, damage, remove property from, or otherwise interfere with any building or premises secured or protected under this regulation.

PART III

OFFENCES, PENALTIES & C.

17. No person shall-

(a) endeavour to cause disaffection among persons who are-

(i) public officers;

(ii) engaged in the service of the Republic; or

(iii) engaged in the performance of essential services; or

(b) endeavour to induce any person referred to in paragraph (a) to do or omit to do anything in breach of his duty as a public officer.

18. No person shall affix in any place visible to the public or distribute among the public any posters, handbills or leaflets, the contents of which are prejudicial to public security, public order or the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.

19. No person shall, by word of mouth or by any written, electronic, digital or other means whatsoever, including through any media, information and communication technology, automated system or artificial intelligence system, communicate, publish, generate or disseminate any rumour or false statement which is likely to cause public alarm or public disorder.

20. If any person who —

(a) in answer to any request made in pursuance of these regulations or any Order made under any such regulation, makes any statement or furnishes any information which he knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be false in a material particular; or

(b) makes such a statement as aforesaid in any account, declaration, estimate, return or other document which he is required by these regulations or by Order under these regulations to make,

commits an offence.

Prevention of disaffection, etc., among public officers

Distribution of leaflets &c.

Communication or spreading of rumours and false statements

False statements

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.20268A

21. (1) No person shall attend at, or near a house or place where any other person resides or works or carries on business or happens to be in, in such manner as to be calculated to intimidate any person in that house or place or to obstruct the approach thereto or egress therefrom, or to lead to a breach of the peace.

(2) In this regulation, the expression “intimidate” means to cause in the mind of a person a reasonable apprehension of injury to him or to any member of his family or to any of his dependents or of violence or damage to any person or property and the expression “injury” includes injury to a person in respect of his business, occupation, employment or other source of income, and includes any actionable wrong.

22. No person shall resist or obstruct any other person in the exercise or discharge of any power or duty conferred or imposed on that other person by or under these regulations.

23. No person shall, without lawful authority, cause any obstruction or damage to any public road, bridge or culvert, or to any railway, or any public road transport vehicle.

24. Any person who -

(a) attempts to commit or does any act preparatory to the commission of;

(b) aids or abets another person to commit; or

(c) conspires with another person, in the commission of,

an offence under these regulations shall himself be guilty of that offence and shall accordingly be tried in like manner and be punished with the same punishment as is prescribed for such offence under these regulations.

25. No person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that any other person is committing an offence under these regulations, shall give that other person any assistance with the intent thereby to prevent, hinder or interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of that person for the said offence.

26. Where an offence under these regulations is committed by a body of persons, then -

(a) if that body is a body corporate, every director of that body corporate; and

(b) if that body is a firm, every partner of that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

27. (1) If any person contravenes or fails to comply with these regulations, or any Order or rule made under any such regulation or any direction given or requirement imposed under any such regulations, he shall be guilty of an offence, and subject to any special provisions contained in such regulation, shall on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable to rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than three months and not exceeding five years and to a fine of not less than five hundred rupees and not exceeding five thousand rupees.

(2) Where no punishment is prescribed in these regulations for an offence, a person guilty of such offence shall, on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable to the same punishment as that specified in paragraph (1) of this regulation.

Prevention of intimidation

Resistance to or obstruction of persons in authority

Obstruction or damage to roads, railways&c.,

Attempts to commit offences

Assisting an offence

Offences by bodies of persons

Penalties

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.2026

9A

28. (1) Whoever becomes aware of an intention or an attempt of a preparation to commit, or thecommission of an offence under these regulations shall forthwith give information thereof to the nearest Grama Niladhari or to the Officer-in-charge of the nearest police station.

(2) Any person who willfully fails or refuses to give the information referred to in paragraph (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

(3) Any Grama Niladhari who has received any information of any offence under these regulationsshall forthwith give such information to the nearest police station.

29.The proceedings in any court in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by a personunder these regulations shall be taken up before any other business of the court.

30.The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply to anyinvestigation, prosecution, trial, etc, of an offence committed under these regulations.

PART IV

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

31. (1) Without prejudice to any special provisions contained in these regulations, any person shall, onbeing requested so do by or on behalf of a competent authority, furnish or produce to such authority or person as may be specified in the request any such information or article in his possession as may be so specified, being information or an article which the authority or person making the request is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to obtain or examine for the maintenance of public order, or for the purposes of these regulations, and if any person fails to furnish or produce any information or article in his possession in pursuance of a request duly made to him under this regulation, he shall be guilty of an offence.

(2) In this regulation, “article” includes any book, account or document.

32. (1) The President may, by Order published in the Gazette, appoint any person, by name or by office,to be the Coordinating Officer for any area in Sri Lanka as specified in the Order.

(2) Where a Coordinating Officer is appointed by the President by Order for any area in Sri Lanka, suchOfficer shall exercise, perform and discharge in that area all the powers, duties and functions conferred or imposed on a District Secretary under any written law or otherwise, and for that purpose every reference to the District Secretary shall in its application in case of that area, be construed as a reference to such Coordinating Officer.

(3) The President may, by Order published in the Gazette, appoint any person, by name or by office,to be Coordinator-in-Chief to exercise supervision over a coordinating officer appointed under paragraph (1) for any such areas as are specified in the Order.

(4) The President may appoint, by name or by office, such Deputy Coordinators-in-Chief as may benecessary to assist the Coordinator-in-Chief in the exercise, performance or discharge of his powers, duties or discharge under these regulations.

(5) The Coordinator-in-Chief may delegate to any Deputy appointed under paragraph (4) any power, duty or function, conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such Coordinator-in-Chief under these regulations.

Duty to disclose information

Priority for court proceedings.

Provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979shall apply.

Power to obtain information or examine articles

Powers, duties and functions of a Coordinating Officer

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.01.202610A

(6) Any Coordinator-in-Chief appointed under paragraph (3), or any Deputy Coordinator-in-Chief appointed under paragraph (4) or who has been delegated the powers of the Coordinator-in-Chief under paragraph (5), may-

(a) exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on any Coordinating Officer by this regulation and over whom he exercises supervision; and

(b) give special or general direction to the Coordinating Officer over whom he exercises supervision, as to the exercise, performance or discharge by such Coordinating Officer, of any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on such Coordinating Officer by this regulation.

33. No action or other legal proceeding, whether civil or criminal, shall be instituted in any court in respect of any matter or thing done or purported to be done in good faith by a person empowered to perform any duty under any provisions of these regulations or of any Order or direction made or given thereunder.

34. The Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and Powers) Regulations, No. 1 of 2025, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2464/31 of November 28, 2025, are hereby revoked without prejudice to anything duly previously done thereunder.

EOG 01-0284

Protection of action

Revocation

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.