==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2110$41 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 14 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'02'14

No. 2110/41 - THURSDAY FEBRUARY 04, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4387 — 18 (02/2019)

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Resource Centers of Local Government Institutions of Western Province Statute No. .... of 2018

I, for the acknowledgement of the public, hereby notify that the approval of Board of Ministers of Western Province hasbeen granted for the draft of Resource Centers of Local Government Insitutions of Western Province Statute No. ....of2018 by the Board of Ministers decision No. VI/107/01-2018 - 02 (iii) and dated 24.01.2018 and it has been scheduledto be proposed by me for the approval of the Western Provincial Council.

ISURA DEVAPRIYA,Chief Minister and Minister of Local Government,Economic Promotion, Power and Energy, Environmental Affairs,

Water Supply and Drainage and Tourism

Western Province.

On 30th January, 2019.

RESOURCE CENTERS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT INSTITUTIONS OF WESTERN PROVINCE STATUTE

No. .... OF 2018

A Statute to provide for the establishment of an institution named Resource Center of Local GovernmentInstitutions of Western Province ; to implement training programmes identifying the training necessities of the officebearers and the staff of Western Provincial Local Goverment Institutions, to extend the knowledge on the usage ofInformation Technology in order to make the public services of Local Government Institutions more efficient and for allthe matters incidental thereto.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.20192A

Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of Western Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic ofSri Lanka as follows :

1. This Statute may be cited as the “Resource Centers of Local Government Institutions of

Western Province No. .... of 2018 of Western Province Provincial Council and shall, afterreceiving Governor’s assent, come into opeation on such date.

PART I

Establishment of Resource Centers of Local Government Institutions of Western Province

2. There shall be established the Local Government Institutions’ Resource Center of Western

Province which is hereinafter referred to as the “Center”.

3. The Center shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall

have prepetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

4.(1) The seal of the Center shall be in the custody of the Chairman.

(2) The seal of the Center may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the

Center.

(3) The seal of the Center shall not be affixed to any instrument, document or agreement

except in the presence of a member of the Board of Directors and the Chairman and thesaid two shall sign such instrument, document or agreement in token of their presence.

(4) The Center shall maintain a register of documents and letters on which the seal of the

Center is affixed.

PART II

Objectives of the Center

5. Objectives of the Center shall be as follow.

(1) Identification of the training necessities for the office bearers who are elected to the

Western Provincial Local Government Institutions as well as for the staff memberswho are in the service of Western Provincial Local Government Institutions andconducting research necessary for that identification, implementing training programmesand carrying out necessary coordinating affairs.

(2) Educating the office bearers and the staff of Local Government Institutions about

mordern technological plans and the usage of Information Technology to uphold thepublic services of Western Provincial Local Government Institutions in a more efficientmanner.

(3) Maintaining the traning auditoriums, resource centers, research centers, laboratories

and residential camps to implement training programmes aimed at Western ProvincialLocal Government Institutions.

(4) Implementing social awareness programmes on the powers, duties and functions of

Local Government Institutions.

Short Title and thedate of operation

Establishment

Seal of the Center

Objectives

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2019

6. Center shall be consisted of the members mentioned below :

(1) Ex-Officio Members ; namely

(a) Secretary, Ministry of Local Government of Western Province

(b) Deputy Chief Secretary (Personnel and Training) Western Province

(c) Commissioner of Local Government - Western Province ; and

(2) Appointed Members, namely

A Mayor, Chairman and a Municipal Commissioner, a Secretary of Urban Council orPradeshiya Sabha appointed by the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Governmentof Western Province ; representing the Municipal Councils, Urban Councils andPradeshiya Sabha of Western Province.

(3) Among the ex-officio members appointed under the above subsection. Secretary to the

Ministry of Local Government of Western Provice shall be the Chairman of the Center.

(3) The Center may pay the remunerations to every member of the Center as determined

from time to time by the Minister.

7.(1) All the matters and questions authorized by this statute as required to be determined by

the Center shall be decided by the vote of the majority of the members of the Centerpresent at meeting of the Center held in accordance with the provisions of this Statute.

(2) In case of an equality of votes among members at a meeting, regarding a certain problem,

the presiding Chairman or another member shall have a casting vote in addition to thevote he owns.

(3) The quorum of a meeting of the Center shall be three members.

(4) No act or decision or proceeding of the Center shall be invalidated or deemed to be

invalidated by reason only of the existence of vacancy amongst its members or anydefect in the appointment of any member thereof.

(5) The Director appointed under the Subsection 16 of this Statute shall function as the

Secretary to the Center.

(6) The Secretary to the Center shall be entitled to be present and speak at any meeting of

the Center, but shall not be entitled to vote at such meetings.

8. Powers and functions of the Center shall be as follows :

(1) Planning and implementing training programmes necessary to develop the knowledge,

attitudes and skills of the staff of Western Provincial Department of Local Government,office bearers and the staff of the Western Provincial Local Government Institutionsand the staff affiliated to the provincial administration of Western Province ;

(2) Conducting training certificate courses for the staff affiliated with Western Provincial

Department of Local Government and Local Government Institutions as applicable tothe Provincial Administration ;

Composition of theCenter

Members’ term ofthe office

Chairman of theCenter

Decisions of theCenter

Powers andfunctions

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.20194A

(3) Maintaining a separate fund by the name of the Center ;

(4) Directing Local Government Institutions to use information Technology to enhance the

efficiency and the productivity of Local Government Institutions in a manner of enablingthe regulation of provincial administration affairs and providing relevant consultations.

(5) Obtaining the service of the professionals with expert knowledge in enhancing the

knowledge through training programmes conducted by the Center.

(6) Receiving, bearing whatsoever donations given by the name of the Center for the

objectives of the Center by Government and Non-Goverment organizations, civilorganizations in Sri Lanka and maintaining such financial donations under the eachseparate accounts of the fund of the Center as per the requirement ;

(7) Ordering and levying charges for the services rendered by the Center ;

(8) Entering into agreements with other parties to function under the objectives of the Center

;

(9) Publishing books, magazines and documents necessary for enhancing the knowledge of

the staff of Local Government Institutions together with the supply of necessary technicalassistance to the extent as determined by the Center ;

(10) Formulating all he posts which are determined by the Center as necessary ; in accordance

with the relevant formal procedures.

Conversely, the staff of the Center at the initial stage of the Center shall function by theapproved cadre of the Western Provincial Department of Local Government dependingon the circumstances.

(11) Engaging in actions determined by the Center as necessary or supportive to attain the

objectives mentioned under the Statute.

(12) To acquire in any manner whatsoever and hold, buy, hold or give on lease or hire, mortgage,

sell or otherwise dispose of movable or immovable property.

(13) Preparing and determining relevant schemes of work to appoint staff members of the

Center to posts and to remove from the same.

(14) Determining any paying allowances to resources persons from whom the services are

obtained by the Center.

(15) Paying remunerations to the staff of the Center including the Director of the Center.

Such remuneration shall be 1/4 of the permanent salary of the post he bears.

9. In the act of executing powers by the Center under this Statute, in fulfilling duty and function,

the Minister may generally or especially issue orders to the Center and the Center, subject tothe said orders shall perform.

10. A Board of Consultants for providing consultations regarding the execution of powers and

functions of this Statute may be appointed as determined by the rules formulated under thisStatute.

Minister’s abilityto issue orders tothe Center

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2019

PART III

Funds of the Center

10.(1) The Center shall have its own Fund by its name

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund of the Center ;

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to time by the Provincial

Council for the Center ;

(b) all such sums of money accumulated by the name of the Center in implementing

objectives of the Center and executing and discharging powers and functions andall such sums of money to be levied for providing services of the Center.

(c) Financial donations received by the Center by the name of the Center in executing

powers of the Center.

(d) Contributions allocated through the Annual Budget by the Western Provincial Local

Government Institutions with the expectation of obtaining the services of theCenter.

(3) All such sums of money received by the Center and payable to the Fund of the Center

shall be deposited in a State Bank.

12.(1) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Center all such sums of money to defray any

expenditure incurred by the Center in the management of the affairs of the Center andfor any other activities authorized by the Center from time to time, in the exercise,fulfillment of the objectives of the Center, discharge and performance of powers,functions and duties of the Center and payment of remuneration to members andemployees of Center.

(2) The cheques and orders drawn on the Fund of the Center shall be signed by two persons

authorized for this purpose by the Center.

13.(1) The Financial year of the Center shall be the calender year ;

(2) In each year, the Chairman of the Center, shall, on or before a date to be specified in the

rules under this Statute and according to the prescribed format, present to the Center asestimate for the ensuing year, embodying particulars of the income that may be receivedand of proposed expenditure in that year.

(3) Before the commencement of the relevant financial year the estimate shall having finally

considered together with amendments, if any, be passed by the Center itself.

(4) The Chairman of the Center may at any time, if necessary, prepare a supplementary

estimate and present it to the Center.

(5) The Center may approve, alter, reject or add something to all or any of the subjects

included in the estimate or any supplementary estimate.

14.(1) The Center shall cause proper accounts to be kept of its income and expenditure and

assets and liabilities and all other transactions as determined by the rules enacted underthis Statute.

Funds of theCenter

Expenditure

Budget

Accounts of theCentre

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.20196A

(2) The income and expenditure Account and the balance sheet of the Center in respect of

each financial year shall be submitted to the Auditor General before the thirty first dayof March of the succeeding year.

15.(1) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shall be applicable in respect of the

audit of accounts of the Center.

PART IV

Staff of the Center

16.(1) A person who bears a post in Staff Grade of Western Provincial Public Service and in

service of a post of the Ministry of Local Government or Department of LocalGovernment of Western Province, shall be appointed as the Director of the Center onsecondary basis by the Secretary to the Ministry of Local Government of WesternProvoince.

(2) Directing the affairs of the Center, organizing, executing and performing powers, duties

and functions, administration of the employees of the Center, control, shall be entrustedto the Director subject to the general command and the control of the Chairman.

(3) Secretary to the Ministry of Local Government of Western Province may in accordance

with the procedure imposed by the Center in terms of the provisions of this Statute mayappoint any officers or employees to the posts or positions and remove from the postor position, as it considers necessary for the efficient exercise, discharge and peformanceof powers, functions and duties of the Center.

17.(1) At the request of the Center, any officer of the Western Provincial Public Service may,

with the consent of that officer and the Western Provincial Public Service Commissionand the Secretary to the relevant Ministry, be temporarily appointed to the Staff of theCenter for such period as may be determined by the Center with like consent.

(2) Where the Center employs any person who has entered into a contract with the

Government or Western Provincial Council by which he has agreed to serve theGovernment or Western Provincial Council for a specified period, any period of servicewith the Center by that person shall be regarded as service to the Government or WesternProvincial Council for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such contract.

PART V

General Provisions

18.(1) The Minister may, make rules for implementing the objectives of this Statute and to

execute powers to implement all the matters that have been ordered to make rules bythis Statute.

(2) Every rule made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into

operation on the date of publicatioin or from a coming date mentioned in the Gazette.

(3) Every rule made by the Minister shall as soon as may be convenient after publication be

laid before the Provincial Council for approval. Provincial Council, having approved therules, shall notify the said approval in a Gazette Notifcation.

Audit ofAccounts

Appointing ChiefAdministrativeOfficers of theCenter

Appointingofficers ofWesternProvincial PublicService to theStaff of the Center

Power to makerules

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'14PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.02.2019

Otherwise, the non-approval shall also be published in a Gazette Notification and shall bedeemed as repealed without any prejudice to the actions taken thereunder since that day.

19.(1) Whenever the Center is of the opinion that any immovable property in the Province is

required for the purpose of this Statute, such immovable property.

(a) where such property is a State property pass a resolution to make such property

available to the Center for such purpose in terms of item 1 : 2 of the Appendix IIof List 1 of the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution ; and

(b) where such property is a private property, to apply to the Minister in charge of the

subject of lands of Central Government, pass resolution to acquire such propertyon behalf of the Center ;

(2) Where the Provincial Board of Ministers has passed a resolution under subsection (1),

the Secretary to the Ministry of Local Government shall, through the Chief Secretaryrefer such resolution to the Minister in charge of the subject of Land.

(3) Any sums of money payable in relation to any acquisition of property for the Center,

shall, on application make under subsection (2), be paid out of the Fund of the Center.

20.(1) Any member, officer and employee of the Center shall be deemed to be a public servant

within the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

(2) The Center shall be deemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the meaning of Bribery

Act.

21. No suit or prosecution shall lay :

(a) against the Center for any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done by the

Center under this statute ;

(b) against any member officer, servant or agent of the Center for any act which in good

faith is done or purported to be done by any member, officer, servant or agent of theCenter, under this Statute or on the direction of the Center.

22. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise required.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government of WesternProvince.“Board of Directors” means the board of ministers of Westen Provincial Council.“Provincial Council” means the Western Province Provincial Council.“Initial stage of the Center” means the period of time to the date of granting approval of theGovernor of Western Province to the Board of Ministers’ decision which has been made byWestern Provincial Board of Ministers on the fact that the Center has reached a point whereit can function independently, having commenced the implementation of the Center under theStatute.

23. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala and Tamil text, Sinhala text shall prevail.

03- 135

Power to acquireimmovableproperty

Membrrs andOfficers deemedPublic Servants

Interpretation

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency