1 Notaries (Amendment)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, PrisonAffairs and Constitutional Reforms

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of November 24, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 29.11.2023)

NOTARIES (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Notaries Ordinance(Chapter 107)

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.15.00 Postage : Rs. 50.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

2

Notaries (Amendment)

Statement of Legal Effect

Clause 2: This clause amends subsection (1A) of section 28 of theNotaries Ordinance (Chapter 107) (hereinafter referred to as the“principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section as amendedis to cast a duty on the notary to state in the affidavit for renewal oflicence, that he has paid the sum of money due to the Registrar-General.

Clause 3: This clause amends section 31 of the principal enactmentand the legal effect of the section as amended is to further enhancethe scope of this section.

Clause 4: This clause inserts a new section 38A to the principalenactment and the legal effect of the new section is to require anotary to ascertain the true legal nature of the transaction and toexplain the same to the executants.

Clause 5: This clause amends the Second Schedule to the principalenactment and the legal effect of the section as amended is to introducea new format for submission of monthly list of deeds by notaries.

3 Notaries (Amendment)L.D.-O. 7/2023

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NOTARIES ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 107)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Notaries (Amendment)Act, No. of 2023.

2. Section 28 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107)(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyamended in subsection (1A) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “Registrar of Lands.”, of the words and figures“Registrar of Lands and that any sum of money, if any hasbeen imposed by the Registrar General in terms of section 35,has been paid.”.

3. Section 31 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1) by the substitution for rule (5) thereof, ofthe following:-

(5) He shall not authenticate orattest any deed or instrumentwhich is written on more thanone entire or undividedparchment paper or blue sheet,unless-

(a)each of the sheets orpapers used has beenpreviously producedbefore the Registrar ofLands for the district inwhich the notary resides,and has been marked orsigned or initialled by suchregistrar in order toprevent the sheets beingused for any otherpurpose; or

Short title

Amendmentof section 28of Chapter107

5

10

15

20

25

PL014214 - 475 (11/2023)

Amendmentof section 31of theprincipalenactment

“Deeds to bewritten onundividedsheet orsheets signedby theRegistrar ofLands

30

4

Notaries (Amendment)

(b)the parties executing thesame and the notary shallsign every sheet or piecein which any part of thedeed or instrument iswritten; and

(c)the pages are numbered.”;

(2) in rule (7A) thereof -

(a)in paragraph (a), by the substitution for thewords “any deed or instrument relating to atransfer, a gift or an exchange” of the words“every deed or instrument”;

(b)by the substitution for paragraph (b), of thefollowing:-

“(b) The stamps or the original receiptreceived from the relevant bank as proofof such payment shall be affixed to theduplicate of the deed or instrument bythe notary;”;

(c)by the addition, immediately after paragraph(c), of the following new paragraph: -

“(d) Where stamps are affixed to theduplicate of the deed or instrument, a truecopy of the duplicate, to which suchstamps are affixed shall be annexed to theoriginal, when the original is presented forregistration.”; and

(d)by the substitution for the marginal note, ofthe following: -

“Stamping of deeds or instruments”;

5

10

15

20

25

2

5 Notaries (Amendment)

(3)in rule (9) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “and in the latter case, he shall”, of thewords, “he shall”;

(4)by the repeal of rule (10) thereof;

(5)in rule (15A) thereof -

(a) in paragraph (b), by the substitution forthe words “board of directors or anauthorized person of a corporate body” ofthe words “board of directors or anauthorized person of a corporate body”;

(b)by the repeal of paragraph (d);

(6)in rule (17) thereof-

(a)in paragraph (b), by the substitution for sub-paragraph (iii), of the following: -

“(iii)in the case of a deed of transfer or adeed of gift, or deed of exchange or awill, he shall affix to the protocol ofsuch instrument passport sizephotographs of the signatories, otherthan the witnesses, to which thenotary has affixed his seal and shallkeep copies of national identity card,passport or driving licence of suchsignatories attached to theprotocol;”;

(b)in paragraph (c) of that rule, by thesubstitution for the words “full name” ofthe words “name with initials”; (7)in rule (20) there of, by the substitution forparagraph (g) of the following: -

5

10

15

20

3

25

6

Notaries (Amendment)

“(g)specifically the erasures, alterations, andinterpolations which have been made insuch deed or instrument, and whether theywere made before the same was read overas aforesaid, and the erasures, alterations,and interpolations, if any, made in thesignatures thereto, in its serial number, andin the writing on the stamp affixed thereto;and”;

(8)in rule (26) thereof, by the substitution for thewords “ in the Form F” in sub-paragraph (i) ofparagraph (a) of that rule, of the words andfigures, “in the Form F 1”; and

(9)in rule (30) thereof, by the substitution for thewords, “he shall annex a certified copy of thepower of attorney obtained from the RegistrarGeneral to the original, and true copies to theduplicate and the protocol thereof.”, of the words“he shall annex a true copy of the registeredpower of attorney to the original, duplicate andthe protocol thereof.”

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 38 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 38A:-

38A .(1) It shall be the duty of every notary-

(a) to endeavour to ascertain thetrue legal nature of thetransaction between the parties

Insertion ofnew section38A in theprincipalenactment

“Notary toexplain thetrue natureof thetransaction

5

10

15

20

25

4

7 Notaries (Amendment)

and execute the deed orinstrument for the truetransaction; and

(b) specifically, and expresslyexplain to the executants the truenature of every deed orinstrument before any executantsigns such deed or instrument.

(2) He shall not directly or indirectlyauthenticate or attest any deed oftransfer in respect of a transaction,which is in fact a mortgage, aconditional transfer, or any othersimilar instrument or deed.

(3) Any notary who shall knowingly andwillfully execute a deed or instrumentin violation of subsection (1) or (2)above shall be guilty of an offence,and be liable to a fine not exceedingfive hundred thousand rupees. ”.

5. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1)by the repeal of Form F thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

Amendmentof the SecondSchedule tothe principalenactment

5

10

15

20

5

8

Notaries (Amendment)

“ Form F

Register of the deeds

DeedDate ofNature ofName ofDistrict ofName ofConsideration StampsNo.AttestationInstrumentPartiesRegistration land affectedo nby deed, firstduplicateGrantorGranteeland only, ifmore than one

(2)by the insertion immediately after Form F thereof,the following new form: -

“ Form F 1

Monthly list of the deeds

List of deeds attested during the month of….. year……..

Name of the notary:NIC No. of the notaryNo:

6. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared thatthe provisions of this Act shall not affect any deed orinstrument lawfully executed prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act and pending registration inaccordance with the provisions of Registration of DocumentsOrdinance (Chapter 117).

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

[section31(24)]

Avoidanceof doubt

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsis-tency

6

[section 31 (26)]

No. Deed No. Date of Attestation Nature of instrument Grantor Grantee Registered District Divisional Secretary’s Division

Name of the Land

Local authority in which the land is situated

Consideration StampsDuplica

Name and address

NIC No. Name and address

NIC No. ProvincCounci

9 Notaries (Amendment)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

7

on the ate

cial

l Inland Revenue