==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - G 46199 - 04 (01/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L.D-B 1/2026

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

The Supreme Court Rules

RULES made under Article 136 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka by the Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court nominated by him under that Article.

P. Padman Surasena, Achala Wengappuli, Chief Justice. Judge of the Supreme Court.

Mahinda Samayawardhena, Arjuna Obeyesekere Judge of the Supreme Court. Judge of the Supreme Court.

Colombo.

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රයඅති විශෙˤෂ

අංංක 2473/23 - 2026 ‍‍ජනවාාරි මස 29 වැැනි බ්‍රහස්පතින්දාා - 2026.01.29No. 2473/23 - THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2026

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'29Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.01.20262A

RULES

1. These rules may be cited as the Supreme Court (Electronic Filing and Electronic Court Services) Rules, 2026.

2. Every registered Attorney-at-Law who intends to obtain Electronic Court Services (hereinafter referred to as “e-Court services”) including the access to the electronic filing system (hereinafter referred to as the “e-filing system”), electronic case records (hereinafter referred to as the “e-case records”), and any other e-Court service or facility as may be made available, from time to time, shall pay an annual subscription fee as may be specified through the e-Court service, from time to time by the Registrar of the Supreme Court with the approval of the Chief Justice.

3. Upon payment of the subscription fee, each registered Attorney-at-Law shall be issued with a unique login credential granting access to -

(a) the e-filing system;

(b) e-case records; and (c) any other e-Court service or facility as may be made available from time to time.

4. Failure to pay the annual subscription fee shall result in the suspension of access to the services referred to in rule 3 until such fee is duly paid.

5. The login credentials issued under rule 3 shall be strictly personal to the Attorney-at­ Law and shall not be shared, disclosed, or delegated to any other person.

6. The Registrar of the Supreme Court may, with the approval of the Chief Justice, issue directions, guidelines, or forms as may be necessary for the effective implementation of these rules.

7. Every Attorney-at-Law shall comply with the directions and guidelines issued under rule 6.

8. Every pleading, application, appeal, motion, list, affidavit, or other document required to be filed in any court may be filed electronically, subject to the payment of such fee as may be specified through the e-Court service, from time to time by the Registrar of the Supreme Court with the approval of the Chief Justice.

9. All fees payable under these rules shall be paid through the online payment gateway available in the e-Court service.

10. In these rules, “registered Attorney-at-Law” means an Attorney-at-Law registered in the online database of the Supreme Court.

EOG 01 - 0285

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.