==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2061$29 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 07 jeks nodod - 2018'03'07No. 2061/29 - WEDNESDAY, MARCH 07, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. : IR/21/59/2009.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom theIndustrial Dispute which has arisen between Lake HouseEmployees' Union, No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena, Mawatha,Lake House, Colombo 10 (on behalf of 144 Employees), SriLanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya, Lake House Branch, No.35, D. R. Wijewardena, Mawatha, Lake House, Colombo 10(On behalf of 1030 Employees) of the one part and TheAssociated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited, No. 35, D. R.Wijewardena, Mawatha, Lake House, Colombo 10 of theother part was referred by order dated 26.08.2014 madeunder Section 4(1) of the Industrial Dispute Act, Chapter131 (as amended) and published in the Gazette Extraordinaryof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1881/3dated 22.09.2014 for Settlement by Arbitration is herebypublished in terms of Section 18(1) of the said Act.

A. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05.27th February, 2018.

Ref No. : IR/21/59/2009.

In the matter of an Industrial DisputeBetween1. Lake House Employees' Union,No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,Lake House, Colombo 10.(On behalf of 144 Employees)

2. Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya,Lake House Branch,No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,Lake House, Colombo 10.(On behalf of 1030 Employees)

of the one Part.Party of the First Part.

And

The Associated Newspapers of Ceylon Limited,No. 35, D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha,Lake House, Colombo 10.

of the other Part.Party of the Second Part.

1A- G 27248 - 14 (03/2018)

Case No. A 3583

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2018

AWARD

The Hon. Minister of Labour and Labour RelationsGamini Lokuge do by virtue the powers vested in him bySection 4 (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 ofthe Legislative Enactments, of Ceylon (1956 RevisedEdition), as amended by Acts, No. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962and 39 of 1968 (read with Industrial Disputes- Special-Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968, appointed me as theArbitrator by his order dated 26.08.2014 and referred theaforesaid dispute to me for settlement by Arbitration.

The statement of the matter in dispute between the abovesaid parties is as follows :-

''Whether the 1174 employees mentioned in theschedule, who were earlier paid the non- recurent cost ofliving gratuity (NRCLG) based on the Colombo ConsumerPrice Index (CCPI), have been caused injustice by ex-partecessation of the said allowance from 01.10.2009 and theintroduction of an Annual Lump Sum ; and if so to whatreliefs they are entitled.''

Appearance :

Mr. Lahiru Welgama Attorney - At- Law appears forthe Party of the First Part.

Mrs. Manoli Jinadasa with Rakhitha AbeygoonawardhanaAttorneys- At- Low appear for the party of the SecondPart.

After both parties mentioned above namely Lake HouseEmployees Union and Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya(hereinafter referred to as the Union) and The AssociatedNewspapers of Ceylon (hereinafter referred to as theCompany) have submitted their respective statements thathas led to the disputes in terms of Regulations 21 (1) and(2) of the Industrial Disputes Regulations, 1958. I madeevery endeavour to explore a possibility of an amicablesettlement which proved in futility.

In the circumstances I charged the Union to commenceproceedings and they led the evidence of LankapeligedaraDharmasiri- The General Secretary and WickremaratneVithanalage Gratiaen Sugith Kumar Fernando - Asst.Electrical Superintendant marking documents A1 to A10,while the Company adduced only the evidence of DhanapalaMudiyanselage Dhanasena- Company's Head of FundManagement marking documents R1 to R11.

The factual background and legal basis of the relief ifany claimed by the Union and the response given by theCompany need to be set out briefly.

The Union alleged that the Company has arbitrarily andunilaterally stopped the payment of Non- recurring Cost ofLiving Allowance (hereinafter called and referred to as theNRCLG) from October 2009 by notice marked A4 (a) anextract of this appended hereunder :-

''.... As you are aware payment in lieu of the Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity (NRCLG) is due in themonth of October, Although the practice of making thispayment based on the CCPI Index (Base Index of 1952)continued over the years, the Department of Census andStatistics has currently done away with the officialpublication of this index. Though the Company still receivesthe index figures through the Ministry of Labour Relationsand Manpower, we have been informed by them that thisprocedure is likely to be disconnected with effect fromDecember 2009.

Since there is no formal agreement to make the paymentof NRCLG based on any other basis, it has been decidedthat in lieu of the lump sum NRCLG payment, a payment ofa sum of Rs 162,000/- will be made annually to everyemployee who is currently in respect of this payment. Amonthly advance of Rs. 12,000/- (compared toRs. 11,000/- now paid as advance against NRCLG shallaccordingly be paid to employees entitled to this paymentwith arrears to be paid in the month of October, In fact theaforestated lump sum payment is higher than any NRCLGpayments made in the past history of ANCL. (The paymentmade in 2008- 2009 is Rs. 158,766/- whilst the amountwas Rs. 147,212/- in 2007- 2008).

This payment as in the case of NRCLG shall not attractany consequential benefits such EPF/ ETF, Overtime,Gratuity etc. and shall henceforth be known as the ''AnnualLump Sum in lieu of NRCLG'' This scheme will come intoeffect on 01.10.2009 and the first advance in terms thereofwill be made to employees with their salaries in October2009''

This year alone the Management has enhanced the takehome earnings of the employee on many occasions so far,

by providing a Rs 1000/- increase to the basicsalaries from 1st January 2009.

by introducing a meal allowance of Rs. 60/- perworking day (approx Rs. 1200/- p. m.).

This increase of Rs. 1000/- (i.e Rs. 11,000/- toRs. 12,000/-) to the monthly advance as paymentin lieu of NRCLG.''

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2018

which the employees entitled as a fundamental allowancefor over a period of time and in terms of the collectiveagreement marked as A1, it is crystal clear that the saidallowance had been given to employees as a fundamentalallowance from the very beginning (vide term 2 ^we&

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2006

A ^we& ck yd ixnHdf,anK fomd¾;fïka;=fõ Ôjkúhoï o¾Ylh ioyd oekg f.jkq ,nk tallhla i`oydre' 2'25 uqo, re' 2'35 olajd jeä lsÍug tl. fõ'

In response the Company look up the position that theDepartment of Census and Statistics stopped declaring thecost of living index from the year 2008 which was the basicfigure to calculate the NRCLG and thus the Company couldnot calculate the NRCLG latently realized the mode ofcalculation was also wrong and that resulted in introducing aNew Scheme of paying Annual Lump Sum. (which was paidas fixed monthly installment with the balance being paid atthe end of 12 months - in the same pattern of payments asthe NRCLG), in the face of a practical difficulty to formulateand calculate the NRCLG, due to the non publication of theGazette Notification with the relevant index figures, iscompletely just and equitable and also the employees haveaccepted the new payment and to date are paid on the Newformula. No employee has rejected this payment and as suchthe principles of Approbate and Reprobate apply and the partyof the First Part is not entitled to relief.

In fact evidence on record reveals that all employees haveaccepted this payment and are receiving the same to date.Mr. Lankapeligedara who was the main witness for the unionadmitted in the cross examination in the proceedings of25.05.2016 and the NRCLG was in fact not stopped but paidunder a different name.

Obviously that as the Union has categorically admittedthat all employees (especially the 1174 names in theschedule) accepted the Annual Lump Sum PaymentRs. 162,000/- which was paid in lieu of NRLCG and is beingpaid this amount to date, they are estopped in law from nowdemanding the NRCLG. The principles of approbate andreprobate applies squarely to this case. Taking the decidedcase will enlighten the issue.

In Ceylon Plywoods Corporation v. Samastha LankaG. N. S. M. & Rajya Sanstha Sevaka Sangamaya (1992) 1SLR 157

“The doctrine of approbate and reprobate (quod approbonon reprobo) is based on the principle that no person canaccept and reject the same instrument.”

Scrution. L. J. observed in Verschures Creameries v. Hull& Netherland Steamship Co. Ltd. (1921) 2 KB 608 at 612)

“A person cannot say at one time that a transactions isvalid and thereby obtain some advantage, to which he couldonly be entitled on the footing that it is valid, and then turnround and say it is void for the purpose of securing someother advantage. This is to approbate and reprobate thetransactions. ”

As Sharvananda, C. J. observed in Ranasinghe v.Premadharma (1985) 1 Sri LR 63 at page 70, the concepthas “stood the test of time and has been accepted as part ofour law”

It was further held that ;

“In cases where the doctrine of approbation andreprobation applies, the person concerned has a choice oftwo rights, either of which he is at liberty to adopt, but notboth. Where the doctrine does apply, if the person to whomthe choice belongs irrevocably and with full knowledgeaccepts the one he cannot afterwards assert the other, hecannot affirm and disaffirm.”

The Indian Supreme Court in their judgement of 14thMarch 2014 in the case of State of Punjab and others V.Dhanjit Singh Sandhu CIVIL APPEAl Nos. 5698 5699 of2009 discussing the applicability of the principle approbateand reprobate to individuals held ;

It is settled proposition of law that once an order has beenpassed, it is complied with, accepted by the other party andderived the benefit out of it, he cannot challenge it on anyground (Vide Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporationvs. Balwant Regular Motor Service Amravati & Ors. AIR 1969SC 329) in R. N. Gosain vs. YashpalDhir, AIR 1993 SC 352, thisCourt has observed asunder :-

“Laws does not permit a person to both approbate andreprobate. This principle is based on the doctrine of electionwhich postulates that no party can accept and reject the sameinstrument and that “a person cannot say at one time that atransactions is vaild and thereby obtain some advantage, towhich he could only be entitled on the footing that it is vaild,and then turn round and say it is void for the purpose ofsecuring some other advantage.”

This Court in Sro Babu Ram Alias Durga Prasad vs.Sri Indra Pal Singh (Dead) by Lrs. AIR 1998 SC 3021, andP. R. Deshpande vs. MarutiBalramHaibatti, AIR 1998 SC2979, the Supreme Court has observed that the doctrine ofelection is based on the rule of estoppel, the principle that

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2018

one cannot approbate and reprobate is heres init. Thedoctrine of estoppelp by election is one of the species ofestoppel in pais (or equitable estoppel), which is a ruleinequity. By that law, a person may be precluded by hisactions or conduct or silence when it is his duty to speak,from asserting a right which he otherwise would have had.

The Supreme Court in The Rajasthan State IndustrialDevelopment and Investment Corporation and Anr. vs.Diamond and Gem Development Corporation Ltd. and Anr.,AIR 2013 SC 1241, made an observation that a party cannotbe permitted to “blow hot and cold”, “Fast and loose” or“approbate and reprobate”. Where one knowingly acceptsthe benefits of a contract or conveyance or an order, isestopped do deny the validity or binding effect on him ofsuch contract or conveyance or order. This rule is applied todo equity, however, it must not be applied in a manner as toviolate the principles of right and good conscience.

It is evident that the doctrine of election is based on therule of estopped the principle that the one cannot approbatean reprobate is inherent in it. The doctrine of estopped byelection is one among the species of estopped in paisequitable estopped), which is a rule of equity, By this law, aperson may be precluded, by way of his actions, or conduct,or silence when it is his duty to speak, from asserting a rightwhich he would have otherwise had.”

In the case of Mukhunlal v. Srikrishna Singh (20 NLR at124) the Privy Council held :

“the maxim applies that a man cannot both affirm anddisaffirm the same transaction, show its true nature for hisown relief, and insist upon its apparent character 60prejudice his adversary ................. The maxim is foundednot so much on any positive law as on the broad anduniversally applicable principles of justice.”

In visuvalingam v. Liyanage (1983) I Sri LR 203 at page227, Samarakoon, C. J. using more descriptive language tobring home the essence of denying parties the freedom to“approbate and reprobate”, commented that one “cannot blowhot and cold.”

Thilak Karunarathne vs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike 1993 (2)SLR 100 at 120......

“I will now proceed to consider the plea of approbationand reprobation which was placed in the forefront of thesubmission made by Mr. de Silva. The principle is that aperson cannot both approbate and reprobate. A person is notallowed to accept a benefit and rejected the rest.......”

In the present case, all of the 1800 employees (andespecially the 1174 names in the schedule) have accepted theconversion of NRCLG to an Annual Lump sum payment andis paid this amount to date. No evidence has surfaced of anydissention to this payment, except the grumbling of an ex-employee who is purpotedly spearheading a Trade Unionwith a very small percentage of members. Once the paymentis accepted and received continuously since September2009, the employees cannot now object to the same. If theydisputed this payment, they should not have accepted thepayment at all.

Therefore, the Union cannot have and maintain this claim,especially in view of their categorical admission that allemployees have accepted the payment of Rs. 162,000/-which was paid in lieu of the NRCLG. The Principles ofApprobate and Reprobate applies to this case.

There is no proof produced by the Union that employeesactually objected to this conversion of the NRCOLG toannual Lump Sum. Neither the Union nor the Company couldoffer a proper formula to calculate the NRCOLG, whichclearly supports the position of the Company that there arepractical difficulties in formulating a computation for thecalculation of the NRCLG in the absence of the gazettenotification giving the CCPI index, and justifies theirdecision to convert to Annual Lump Payment.

The Company has several welfare schemes and grantbenefits to all its to all its employees and therefore, has aprimary duty to protect this scheme and implement the samein a manner that can be sustainable in the future.

New collective agreement entered into 2016, marked asR8 and R8 (4) which was enterred into two main trade unionand the company did not even refer to a NRCLG whichreveals that the said Unions were satisfied with the currentarrangement.

If the NRCLG is ordered to be paid without a ceiling thecompany would be unable to pay the same and would leadto the financial collapse of the institution.

In all of the facts and circumstances, and the Union isnot entitled to any relief whatsoever with attendantdocuments and written submission made thereafter thequestion at issue is whether or not the cessation of theNRCLG and the payment of an ANNUAL LUMP SUM isjustified.

In passing it is relevant and apt to state the legal rules andprinciples regarding the functions and powers of theCommissioner and Arbitrator.

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2018

The function of Arbitrator's arbitral power in relation toindustrial disputes is to ascertain and declare to therespective right and liabilities of the parties as they exist atthe moment the proceedings are instituted. From this itfollows that the arbitrator is required to do a great deal morethan sit in judgement over the case that each party cares topresent before him. If he is to ascertain what ought to be theright, and libailities of parties and not what they are at theinstitution of the proceedings. The ultimate burden of makinga just an equitable order is his. A just and equitable Award isnot an ultimate findings as to whether the employer isjustified or not. Vade Brown & Co. Lyd V. Ratnayake (1986)Bar Association Law Reports 2008 page 398.

In fact according to the provisions of Industrial DisputesAct, Part II and Part III (B) in general the Commissioner isnot given any power to take decisions or force anysettlement on the parties. He is only a facilitator for themutual settlement of disputes. If the parties fail to come toa settlement the Commissioner ceases all powers in respectof Industrial Dispute and may refer as a last resort tocompulsory arbitration through the Minister concerned witha view to avoid any interruption to the community life. Fromthese observation a “Section 12 settlement” Especially theS. 12(7) gives procedure to follow when parties fail to cometo a mutual settelement. These provisions require theCommissioner to propose or promote a settlement amongemployees as members of their Union.

Having heard the both parties written submissions withthe attendant documents its appears to me on a parity ofreasoning the evidence and the factual situation stands infavour of the Company than that of the Union because inlaw and equity it is justifiable. So much so the evidence ofthe Company is sound and consistant and acceptable in thelight of economic content and in legal principles.

Moreover one cannot approbate and reprobate in thecontext of equity. And therefore the party of the First Partis estopped from claiming any relief whatsoever in the lightof above reasoning one could affirmatively conclude it isequitable in principle and stands to reason in favour of theCompany.

In the premises I made order that the conduct of theCompany and the stand taken by the Company is just andequitable and make no Award.

Accordingly this Award is just and equitable in thecircumstances. I make no Award.

T. E. SANTHARAJAN,Arbitrator.Colobmo,25th January, 2018.

03 - 848

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA