PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

POWERS OF ATTORNEY (AMENDMENT)

————————

[Bill No. 230]

————————

Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of Buddha Sasana andReligious Affairs on 08th March, 2013

(Published in the Gazette on February 26, 2013)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

to amend the Powers of Attorney Ordinance (Chapter 122)

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

2-2d

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2:This clause amends the Section 9 of the Powers of Attorney Ordinance(Chapter 122)(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment ”) by revising the feesspecified in the schedule.

Clause 3:This clause insert a new section 10 to the principal enactment whichenables the Minister to make Regulations.

1 Powers of Attorney (Amendment)

5

10

L.D.—O. 19/2013

AN ACT TO AMEND THE POWERS OF ATTORNEY ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 122)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This act may be cited as the Powers of Attorney(Amendment) Act, No. of 2013 and shall be deemedto have come into operation on January 1, 2013.

2.Section 9 of the Powers of Attorney Ordinance(Chapter122)(hereinafter referred to as the “principalenactment ”) is hereby amended by the repeal of that sectionand the substitution therefor of the following:—

9. The following fees or such other amountas may be prescribed by the Minister from timeto time shall be payable to the Registrar-General under this Ordinance:—

For the registration of anypower of attorney

For the registration of anynotification of cancellationor revocation of anyregistered power of attorney

For every application toinspect the records For every application for acertified copy of a registeredpower of attorney

For every certified copy issuedunder section 7, per Folio

Short titleand date ofoperation.

15

20

25

“Fees

Rs.1,500.00

Rs.1,500.00

Rs.500.00

Rs.500.00

Rs.500.00.”

Replacementof section 9of the Powersof AttorneyOrdinance(Chapter122).

2 Powers of Attorney (Amendment)

3.The following new section is hereby addedimmediately after section 9 of principal enactment andshall have effect as section 10 of that enactment.

(1). The Minister may from time to time makeregulations for the purpose of carrying out orgiving effect to the principles and provisionsof this Act and in particular in respect of anymatter required under this Act to be prescribed.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1), theMinister may make regulations in respect ofany or all of the following matters:—

(a)the fees payable in respect of anymatter under this Act;

(b)the forms to be used for any purposeunder this Act;

(2) Every regulation made by the Ministershall be published in the Gazette and shallcome in to operation on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Ministershall as soon as convenient after its publicationin the Gazette, be brought before the Parliamentfor approval. Any such regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of its disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which anyregulation made by the Minister is deemed tobe so rescinded shall be published in theGazette.

5

10

15

20

25

Addition ofnew section10 in theprincipalenactment. “Regulations

30

3 Powers of Attorney (Amendment)

4 .Any fees charged or collected by or on behalf of theRegistrar- General or any person authorised under this Act,for any purpose authorized by this Act to charge or collect,from January 1, 2013 and ending on March 31, 2013, shallbe deemed to have been validly charged or collected by theRegistrar- General or by any such person authorised underthis Act:

Provided that the aforesaid provisions of this section shallnot affect any decision or order made by any Court or anyproceedings pending in any Court in respect of any feecharged or collected during the aforesaid period.

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala textto prevail incase of anyinconsistency.

5

10

Validationandindemnity

4 Powers of Attorney (Amendment)

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.