==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1960$4 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 28 jeks i÷od - 2016'03'28No. 1960/4 - MONDAY MARCH 28, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L.D.B 21/1978(x)

UNIVERSITIES ACT, No. 16 OF 1978

Order under Section 25A

BY virtue of powers vested in me by Section 25A of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 I, Lakshman Kiriella, theMinister of Higher Education and Highways, having obtained a report under Section 70C of the aforesaid Act, in respectof the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine Ltd. a company incorporated in Sri Lanka under the CompaniesAct, No. 7 of 2007 and bearing Registration Number PV 64641, do by this Order and subject to the conditions specifiedin Schedule I hereto, recognize the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine Ltd. as a Degree Awarding Institutefor the purpose of developing higher education therein, leading to the award of the Degrees specified in Column I ofSchedule II hereto, of which the abbreviations are set out in the corresponding entries respectively in Column II ofSchedule II hereto.

SCHEDULE I

CONDITIONS

(1) SAITM - South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”)shall before the expiry of two months from the date of granting the degree awarding status, submit its Articlesof Association duly amended as set out below to the Specified Authority : -

(a) to specify higher education as an object in the Articles of Association ;(b) to undertake to inform the Specified Authority of Voluntary winding up of the Company prior to suchwinding up.

(2) The Institute shall before the expiry of twelve months (12) from the date of granting the degree awardingstatus, submit the following details to Specified Authority :-

(i) proof of recruitment of qualified academic and non-academic staff as to meet the requirements of therelevant degree programme ;(ii) a study program for the specified period of study in accordance with the norms approved by theUniversity Grants Commission ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'28PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.03.20162A

(iii) proof of the availability of the text books, hand books, recommended reading books and other sufficientlearning materials required for the relevant degree programme ;(iv) proof of availability of spacious modernized library with all required collection of books and equipments,which would enable the students to carry out the required researches for the relevant degree programme ;and(v) specifying the requirements for the staff to engage in relevant researches and publish such researchesin journals in Sri Lanka.

(3) The Institute shall before the expiry of 3 years from the date of granting the degree awarding status, establishthe following laboratories required to the Engineering Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering DegreeProgramme :-

i. Material and Mechanics Laboratoryii. Surveying Laboratoryiii. Structural Testing Laboratoryvi. Geotechnical Laboratoryv. Hydraulic Laboratory

(4) Establishment of Laboratories Institutes shall increase the following laboratory facilities before completionof the second academic year of the first batch of student enrollment and obtain approval from the SpecifiedAuthority.

i. Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Lab,ii. Industrial Automation and Process Control Lab,iii. Electronics, Instrumentation and Power System Lab,iv. Engineering Workshop.

(5) Evidence of Quality Assurance Mechanism implementation shall be submitted on an half yearly basis andfull implementation evidence shall be submitted within one year of enrolling first batch.

SCHEDULE II

Column IColumn IIDegree ProgramsAbbreviations to the Degree

Bachelor of Science in Engineering in MechatronicsBSc (Eng.) (Mechatronics Eng.)Engineering

Bachelor of Science in Engineering in CivilBSc (Eng.) (Civil Eng.)Engineering

In this Order “the Specified Authority” means the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject ofHigher Education on Highways.

The Order made under Section 25A of the aforesaid Act in respect of the South Asian Institute of Technology andMedicine Ltd. and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1913/14 of May 7, 2015 is hereby rescinded without prejudiceto anything lawfully done thereunder.

LAKSHMAN KIRIELLA,Minister of Higher Education and Highways.Colombo,21st March, 2016.

04-528

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.