THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of August 23, 2019

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 26.08.2019)

REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS (AMENDMENT)

A

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

BILL

to amend the Registration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter 117)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Internal and Home Affairs and Provincial Councils and Local Government

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 8 of the Registration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter117) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”), and the legal effect of the section asamended is to exclude any transaction which is subject to the provisions of the Secured TransactionsAct, No. of 2019 from the application of the provisions of the principal enactment.

Clause 3 : This clause repeals Chapter IV of the principal enactment which contains provisionsrelating to registration of instruments creating security rights in movable property, as consequentialto the enactment of the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019 to make provisions applicable tosecured transactions in movable property.

Clause 4 : This clause replaces the heading of Chapter V of the principal enactment limitingthe application of that Chapter to instruments affecting land, as consequential to the enactment ofthe Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019 to make provisions applicable to secured transactionsin movable property.

Clause 5 : This clause amends section 25 of the principal enactment, and the legal effect ofthe section as amended is to limit the application of Chapter V of the principal enactment tothe instruments affecting land, as consequential to the enactment of the Secured Transactions Act,No. of 2019 to make provisions applicable to secured transactions in movable property.

Clause 6 : This clause amends section 29 of the principal enactment, and it is consequential tothe amendment made to section 25 of the principal enactment by clause 5 of this Bill.

Clause 7 : This clause amends section 41 of the principal enactment, and it is consequential tothe amendment made to section 25 of the principal enactment by clause 5 of this Bill.

Clause 8 : This clause amends the First Schedule to the principal enactment, and it isconsequential to the amendment made by clause 3 of this Bill.

Clause 9 : This clause makes provisions in regard to the period of enforceability of instrumentsalready registered under the Registration of Documents Ordinance and the requirement of registeringthose instruments under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019 upon coming into operationof the said Act in order for them to be further enforceable and for their priority to continue toprevail.

1Registration of Documents (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

L.D.—O. 69/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 117).

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Registration ofDocuments (Amendment) Act, No. of 2019 and shallcome into operation on such date as the Minister mayappoint by Order published in the Gazette.

2.Section 8 of the Registration of Documents Ordinance(Chapter 117) (hereinafter referred to as the “principalenactment”) is hereby amended in the proviso to paragraph(b) of that section, by the addition immediately aftersubparagraph (xi), of the following new subparagraph:—

“(xii)any agreement in relation to a transactionwhich is subject to the provisions of theSecured Transactions Act, No. of 2019.”.

3.Chapter IV of the principal enactment (sections 16to 24 both inclusive) is hereby repealed.

4.The heading of Chapter V of the principal enactmentis hereby repealed and the following heading is substitutedtherefor:—

“CHAPTER V

PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS AFFECTING LAND”.

5.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words “an instrumentaffecting land or a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale.”, of thewords “an instrument affecting land.”.

Short titleand date ofoperation.

Amendmentof section 8of Chapter117.

Repeal ofChapter IVof theprincipalenactment.

Replacementof theheading ofChapter V ofthe principalenactment.

Amendmentof section 25of theprincipalenactment.25

2Registration of Documents (Amendment)

6.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:—

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words “which affects land or movableproperty”, of the words “which affects land”; and

(2)by the repeal of the marginal note to that sectionand the substitution therefor, of the followingmarginal note:—

7.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words “instrumentsaffecting land and pledges, mortgages or bills of saleregistered by him”, of the words “instruments affecting landregistered by him”.

8.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in Part III of that Schedule, by thesubstitution in item 2 thereof, for the words and figures “anybook or index kept under Chapters III, IV, V, VI, for eachtransaction” of the words and figures “any book or indexkept under Chapter III, V or VI for each transaction”.

9.(1) Where, on the date of coming into operation ofthis Act, an instrument creating—

(a)a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of movableproperty; or

(b) (i) an interest in a fixture of any immovableproperty; or

5

10

15

20

25

Amendmentof section 29of theprincipalenactment.

“Land

situated in

several

districts.”.

Amendmentof section 41of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof the FirstSchedule tothe principalenactment.

EnforceabilityofinstrumentsregisteredunderChapter IVof theprincipalenactment.

3Registration of Documents (Amendment)

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

5

10

15

20

30

25

(ii) an assignment of a right to payment under amortgage, charge or lease of any immovableproperty where the assignment does not conveyor transfer the assignor’s interest in theimmovable property,

which has been registered under Chapter IV of the principalenactment, is in force, such pledge, mortgage or bill of saleof movable property or such interest in a fixture ofimmovable property or such assignment of a right to paymentunder a mortgage, charge or lease of immovable propertyshall, for a period of two years from the date of coming intooperation of this Act, continue to be enforceable, but shallbe required to be registered under the relevant provisons ofthe Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019 as a pledge,mortgage or bill of sale of movable property, or an interestin a fixture of immovable property or an assignment of aright to payment under mortgage, charge or a lease ofimmovable property prior to the expiration of such two yearsperiod.

(2) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) shall, onbeing registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of2019, be deemed to have been perfected from the date onwhich such instrument initially became legally enforceable,and the priority which such instrument became entitled to atthe time it initially became legally enforceable, shallcontinue to prevail.

(3) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) which isnot registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of2019 prior to the expiration of two years from the date ofcoming into operation of this Act, shall become legallyunenforceable after the expiration of such period.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

4Registration of Documents (Amendment)

Department of Government Printing