==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1952$15 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'02'02No.1952/15 - TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 02, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act No. 6 of 1952

DRAFT OF THE STANDARD BY-LAWS FOR URBAN COUNCILS

DRAFT By-Laws for the Urban Council chapter I to VI made by me,C. V. Wigneswaran, as Chief Minister and the Ministerof Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Electricity, Housing and Construction, Industries and Enterprise Promotion,Tourism, Local Government and Provincial Administration of Northern Province Provincial Council by virtue of powersvested in the minister under whose purview the subject of Local Government of Provincial Council falls under Sub section1 of section 2of Local Authorities(Standard By-Laws) Act No. 6 of 1952 read with paragraph (a) of Sub section 1 ofsection 2 of Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are published hereby.

While the above draft By-Laws are approved by resolution passed by the Northern Province Provincial Councilunder Sub section 3 of section 2 of above Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act,Urban Councils in Northern Provinceare hereby empowered to accept these draft By-Laws subject to the provision in the Sub section (2)(a) of section 2 of theLocal Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act and theUrban Councils in Northern Province are empowered to make By-Lawscontaining the provisions comprised in draft By-Laws by sections 94 and 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance Chapter252 read with section 157 of that Ordinance.

C. V. WIGNESWARAN,Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance andPlanning,Law and Order, Land, Electricity,Housing and Construction,Industries andEnterprise Promotion, Tourism, Local Government andChief Minister’s Office,Provincial Administration,Northern Province Provincial Council.No. 26, Somasundaram Avenue,Chundukkuli,Jaffna,27th January, 2016.

N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary will be published seperately.

1A - PG2824 – 56 (02/2016)This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20162A

CHAPTER -1

PART I - STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AT THE MEETING OF THECOUNCIL OF URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the standard by-laws relating to conduct of business atthe meetings of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of making provisions for conducting ofCouncil meeting according to the procedure and legal guidance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the sub section 157(1)(a)of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) and 19 to 30 of Urban Councils Ordinance

(4)(i). A general Meeting of the Urban Council shall be held at the Urban Council Office ona previously specified date and time in each month and there shall be twelve monthlymeetings to be conducted for a year. It shall be conducted on the day in the first weekor closed to first week of each month previously determined by the Chairman. In theevent of such day falling on a day declared as a public holiday under the Holidays Act,No. 29 of 1971. It shall be considered that such meeting has been decided to be heldon the next working day immediately following such public Holiday and the meetingshall be held on that day. The instruction shall be given to the Secretary by the Chairmanto send the notice of meeting to all members within the specified time.

(ii). The notification summoning a general meeting or a special meeting of a Urban Councilshall be issued in Tamil or Sinhala in both these languages. The notice of meetingshall be forwarded by post with the meeting agenda to conduct the meeting to allmembers. Further draft meeting minute of previous month meeting also shall be sentwith agenda as per this By-Laws. The secretary shall not refused or make delay tocarry out any instruction given by Chairman as per this By-Laws. Summons shall besent to a special meeting regarding any matter as per the decision of the Chairman orat the request of two members (at least) of the council. The particular matter specifiedin the agenda shall be only discussed at the meeting and no other matters shall bediscussed for some other reason. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to conduct aspecial meeting within forthwith at the request according to the above provision.

(iii). A notification on the summoning of a general meeting and on the programme foreach of such meeting shall be delivered to each Member at least four days before theday of the meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays( As per section8(3) of the interpretation Ordinance 21 of 1901 ). In case of special meeting it shallbe delivered at least two day before meeting

(iv). In the event of the notification being placed in the premises usually occupied by theMember to whom it is being directed due to the inability to personally deliver thenotification specified in paragraph (ii) and (iii) due to some reason it shall beconsidered that it has been properly delivered.

(v). (a) In the event of a quorum being not available no proceedings shall be made. Thequorum of a general meeting of a Urban Council shall be one third the number ofMembers holding office on the date of the meeting. In the event of the one thirdof the Membership being a whole number and a fraction the next whole numberhigher than this whole number and fraction shall be considered as the one thirdfor the purposes of this by-law.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Ordinary Meetingand SpecialMeeting

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(b) In the event of a quorum not being present even after the elapse of half an hourafter the scheduled time of any meeting or any time after the commencement ofthe meeting the Chairman shall adjourn the meeting to a date not later than fifteendays after the particular meeting and considered to be suitable by him. The businessthat could have been presented at this adjourned meeting in the event of a quorumbeing present shall be presented at the subsequent meeting and suitable actionshall be taken in that regard.

(vi). (a) The Chairman shall adjourn a general or special meeting of the Urban Councilhaving a quorum from time to time with the consent of the Council. No otherbusiness than that which is left unfinished after being included in the OrderPaperof the Meeting which has been so adjourned shall be taken up at a subsequentmeeting without the leave of the Council.

(b) Unless it has been decided at the earlier meeting to hold the adjourned meetingwithin twenty-four hours, the notification in respect of the adjourned meetingshall be delivered to the Members at least three days before the Scheduled timeof the particular meeting.

(vii). While all members attending the Council meeting shall enter their names and the timeof arrival in an attendance register maintained by the Secretary and sign it in thesequence of their arrival the Register shall be in the custody of the Secretary.

(viii). The guest including the media and public shall take seats allocated to them in thepremises where the meeting of council is held .but if it is the declared view arrived ata majority decision of the members participating in the meeting of council that it is inthe interests of the public to remove them from the council chamber the they shallleave the chamber when they are called upon to do so by the Chairman of the Council.Noguest shall be connected with the council affairs and no member of the council shallbe name any guest or point him out

(5) The Business of the Meeting shall be conducted in the following sequence:

i. confirm of the Minutes of the previous meeting;

ii. special announcements made by the Chairman;

iii. presentation of Memorandums, Petitions, Complaints and Communications addressedto the Urban Council;

iv. questions that have been given due notice of;

v. motions that have been given due notice of;

vi. Presentation of Reports of Committees. Unless the Council decides to consider thesereports then and there the Council shall fix a date to consider them;

vii. presentation and consideration of monthly statements on receipts and expenditure,progress reports on revenue collected and other documents scheduled to be presentedto the Urban Council;

viii. In the event of notice being given of any other matters in the notification summoningthe Meeting those matters shall be taken up in that sequence or in the sequence decidedupon by the Urban Council on special grounds.

Meeting Agenda

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20164A

(6)(i). The priority and the seniority of the Members of the Council shall be as follows:

(a) Chairman;

(b) Vice Chairman;

(c) in the case of re-election of former Members of the Council the sequence oftheir Continual Membership shall be taken as the basis; and

(d) in the case of other Members the priority sequence followed by the ChairmanGeneral of Elections in gazetting their appointments on election shall be followed.

(ii). In the event of the equality of the continual membership of any two or more Membersof the Council indicated in sub section of Section (a) the priority and seniority shallbe taken into consideration on the sequence followed by the Commissioner Generalof Elections in gazetting their appointments on their election to the Council at thelatest election.

(iii). The political parties and independent groups belonging to the sequence of the memberselected in accordance with the Gazette Notification being published by theCommissioner General of Elections in regard to election of Members to any UrbanCouncil after the election of members to such Council shall not be relevant to thepurposes of this by-law.

(7)(i). While it is the duty of the Chairman to maintain discipline of the meeting his decisionon all points of order contested by the members shall be final.

(ii). The Chairman shall order on his own opinion or on a point of order raised by any othermember that any member acting in contravention of the provisions of the by-laws inthis part should act according to the by-laws.

(8) Having invited the attention of a member on his conduct when he keeps on repeating irrel-evant matters or keeps on repeating the arguments put forward by him or other members at the debatecausing concern to the Council, the Chairman shall order such member to stop the speech.

(9)(i). In respect of members conducting themselves in serious violation of discipline theChairman shall order them out of the chambers immediately and to remain outside tillthe proceedings of the day are over.

(ii). If the Chairman is of the view at any time that his powers under this by-law are notsufficient he shall act in accordance with provisions of paragraph (4) of by-law No. 27in this part.

(10) A member shall at any time move that a debate on any question be suspended. If the motionis seconded a voting shall be taken immediately. When a serious breach of discipline has been caused ata meeting the Chairman shall without question put either suspend the proceedings for a duration orderedby him or adjourn it, if in his opinion it is necessary to suspend the proceedings of the meeting.

(11) The proceedings of the Meetings prepared in accordance with the by-law No. 5 in this partshall include all matters relevant to the sequence. The proceedings of the meetings shall be conducted inaccordance with the sequence set out in by-law No. 5 unless any other sequence has been approved at anyMeeting.

(12) (i). Secretary shall maintain reports in record book in Tamil or Sinhala of proceedings,orders and decisions of the Meetings of the Urban Council

(ii). The meeting minute of council standing committee or administrative committee shallbe recorded by Secretary and the Chairman or chair person shall sign the minute.Further printed minute shall be prepared by the Secretary early as possible.

Seniority ofMembers andReservation ofSeats

Functions ofChairman (7-11)

Functions ofCouncil Secretaryand MeetingMinutes (12-13)

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iii). The minute shall contain also names of members who have alternated the meeting andall discussions made by the council or the standing or administration committee

(iv). If any member has attended the meeting after the commencement of meeting, thetime of his arrival shall be recorded in the minute.

(v). If any member has left the meeting before the end of the meeting the time of departureshall be recorded in the minute

(vi). While the report of each meeting shall be distributed among the Members, the Chairmanshall put the question in the next meeting that it shall be confirmed on the presumptionthat it has been read at the Meeting. If there are no protests or rectifications the Reportshall be confirmed as it is. Otherwise, if there are protests or rectifications thoseamendments shall be included in the Report. The Chairman shall certify by placing hissignature in the record book as to whether there are no amendments at the end of theReport or otherwise that the Report has been confirmed subject to amendmentsspecified in the Report.

(vii). The matters and statements made by the Members at the meeting of the Council shallnot be included in the Council Record book.However, if the Urban Council is of theview that it would be necessary to be aware of the views or statements made by anyMember at the Council action may be taken to prepare voice recordings of such meetingor meetings and keep them securely in the Urban Council and also distribute themamong the Members.

(13) While the Member who is not in agreement with any matter, question or motion shall havethe right to get his dissent recorded in the Report of the Council the Secretary shall take action to recordthe reasons for the Member’s dissent in the Report of the Proceedings of that Meeting in the event ofsuch member handing over a written statement on his dissent to the Secretary within one week of therelevant meeting.

(14) (i). The Urban Council shall transform itself into a committee at any time through aresolution. However, after the committee returns to the status of the house through asimilar resolution the Council shall take a decision on the consequences of mattersdiscussed at the committee Stage.

(ii). When any discussion of a Committee of the Council is in progress at any time anymember shall have the right to propose that the Committee should revert back to awhole house. The Chairman shall put the question to the house and in the event of itbeing carried the Council should immediately revert back to the status of a GeneralCouncil.

(15) (i). For certain functions of the Council the Urban Council shall appoint from time totime Consultative Committees consisting of members deemed suitable by the UrbanCouncilor consisting of Members and other citizens and in equal numbers.

(ii). A Consultative Committee appointed in this manner shall not perform some functionsafter the elapse of the year in which it was constituted

Committees andAdvisorycommittees

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20166A

(iii). The quorum of all meetings of such Consultative Committees shall be one third of thenumber of members holding office on the day of that meeting. In the event of onethird of the members being a whole number and a fraction the whole numberimmediately above such whole number and the fraction should be considered as thewhole number for the purpose of this by-law.

(iv). When the Chairman of the any Consultative Committee is absent from the meetingthe members present shall elect one of the members as the Chairman of the committee.Such member shall have all powers vested in the Chairman of that ConsultativeCommittee.

(v). When a Consultative Committee has extended its consent for some report all themembers shall sign that report, and it shall be presented to the Urban Council togetherwith the report of that Consultative Committee.

(vi). The press reporters shall not be allowed to witness the proceedings of a ConsultativeCommittee meeting.

(vii). While the Secretary of the Urban Council shall function as the Secretary of theConsultative Committee on finances and policies of the Urban Council, it shall be theduty of the Chairman to appoint some officer of the Urban Council to function as theSecretary of other Consultative Committees.

(viii). While it shall be the duty of the Secretary to a particular Consultative Committee tomaintain records of the proceedings of each and every Consultative Committee of thePradeshiya Sabha, such Committee Reports shall be presented to the subsequentmeeting of the Urban Council

(16) While all members of a standing committee or special Committee attending the meetingsof such committee shall enter their names, the time of arrival and signature in an attendance registermaintained by the Secretary of the committee and sign it, in the sequence of their arrival, the registershall be in the custody of the Secretary to the Committee.

(17) The following matters in regard to decisions or agreements arrived at in respect of pro-ceedings of any Meeting shall be included in the report with each motion or matter

(i). In case of a motion, the contents of such motion;

(ii). The name of the Member proposing the Motion and that of the Seconded;

(iii). The names of Members expressing their views for and against the motion;

(iv). Whether the motion was passed or rejected unanimously; or

(v). In the event of a division being called for a motion, the following matters in respectof that motion shall be recorded;

(a) the number and the identity of the Members voting for the Motion,

(b) the number and the identity of the Members voting against the Motion,

(c) the number and the identity of the Members abstaining from voting on the Motion;

(d) the number and identity of the Members present at the Meeting but have left theChambers at the time of voting.

(vi). In the event of the sequence of business of the Council being in respect of any othermatter, the decision taken by the Council in regard to such matter.

Proposals (17-18)

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(18) (i). While all notices in regard to presentation of motions shall be in writing the Membergiving notice shall sign it. The Motion shall not be included in the Order Paper unlessit has been in the custody of the Secretary for a period of seven days before the date ofthe Meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays.

(ii). All notices in respect of motions shall be included in the Order paper by the Secretaryin the sequence of their receipt and having entered the date of receipt and serial number.

(iii). While the Chairman shall be presented with any notice in regard to a Motion, before itis included in the Order Paper, he shall order that it be not included in the Order Paperif in his opinion it is contrary to rules, and action shall be taken to inform the Membermaking the notice about it.

(iv). Every Motions given notice of shall be in relevant to any question having an impacton the administration of the activities of the Urban Council.

(v). The presentation of any motion to rescind any Motion approved during the period ofpast six months or of any other Motion causing similar consequences results to aMotion rejected during the past six months shall not be considered as agreeable withthe by-laws of this part, unless a notice has been signed by two Membersin addition tothe Member who proposes that it would be presented and it has been specificallymentioned in the Order Paper. After suitable action is taken in respect of that Motionno Member shall have the power to present a similar Motion during the period of nextsix months.

(vi). Any Motion shall not be considered as being presented for debate until it is movedand seconded.

(vii). Any Member rising in his seat and saluting the Chair with a bow may formally secondany Motion or Amendment without prejudice to his right to participate in the debatesubsequently.

(viii). As soon as action has been taken in respect of Motions for which notice has beengiven already a member has the right topresent a Motion seeking approval of the Councilto present any Motion for which notice has not been given earlier. However,it shouldhave been handed over to the Secretary by the member moving the motion havingplaced his signature to the motion.

(ix). After a motion has been presented to the meeting and seconded and the debate on ithas been concluded the Chairman shall put the question in regard to approval of themotion.

(x). Any motion or Amendment presented by any member shall be withdrawn by that memberwith the approval of the Council. Approval shall be granted without debate. Unlessgranting of approval is rejected after a member presenting any motion asking for suchapproval no member shall have the power to speak on that motion.

(xi). Any motion withdrawn earlier shall be presented again at a subsequent Meeting.However, any motion substantially similar to any motion decided to be accepted orrejected during the period of past six months as stated in this by-law No. 11 shall notbe presented.

(xii). (a) While all amendments to a Motion shall be presented in writing the memberproposing it shall present the written amendment or amendments to the Secretary.

(b) All amendments to a motion shall be relevant to the motion being discussed forthe time being.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20168A

(c) All amendments to a motion shall be read out to the Council before presentation.

(d) Unless any amendment is seconded it shall not be discussed or presented to theCouncil.

(e) A member seconding a motion formally shall have the right to speak on it later.

(f) When an amendment to any motion being discussed has been presented andseconded, action shall not be taken to present a second or subsequent amendmentuntil the first amendment is disposed of suitably. If an amendment is approved theamended motion shall take the place of the original Motion and if there are anyfurther amendments they shall be amendments in respect of the amended motion.

(19) (i). While the Chairman shall put the question in regard to approval of any matter, questionor motion, it shall be considered to have being approved unanimously unless anymember has not called for a voting on the motion after the question is put to theCouncil. However, in the event of any member calling for a voting in regard to themotion or calling for a secret vote on the matter the Chairman shall take action tohold a voting.

(ii). When a voting is required in respect of any matter, question or motion in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) above;

(a) the Secretary shall take action to hold the voting by noting down the preferenceof each Member having inquired about it separately in accordance with the prioritysequence of the Members indicated in by-law No. 6, when the voting is not asecret vote, or

(b) When the voting is held by secret voting, the Secretary shall take action to countthe votes cast by each member who has noted their preference in a ballot paperissued to them separately.

(iii). At the conclusion of the voting taken by the Secretary in any manner set out in paragraph(ii) above, the Chairman shall announce the approval arrived at by the Urban Councilin respect of the particular matter, question or motion.

(iv). When any question is put to the Urban Council or to a Committee of the whole House,the Members present shall vote for or against the question, unless they abstain fromvoting.

(v). In the event of a Member abstaining from voting when a voting is called the Secretaryshall take action to record his name as a member who has abstained from voting.

(vi). While the Chairman shall have an original vote with the other Members at the Meetingsof the Council or at meetings of acommittee of the whole House in respect of anymatter, question or motion, in case of equality of votes taken on any motion he shallhave a casting vote as well.

(20) Members whose services have been suspended under paragraph (i) of By-Law No. 27 orwho have been ordered out of the chambers under paragraph (iv) of By-Law No. 27 shall leave the cham-ber immediately.

(21) The following rules shall strictly be adhered to when speeches are made in regard to anymatter considered by the Urban Council or by a committee of the whole House.

(i). While every member should address the Chairman when speaking at a meeting, heshall be on his feet except when participating in committee Stage debates.

Voting Procedure

Duties ofmembers(20-21)

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii). Unless a member speaking violates the provisions of the by-laws in this part he shallnot be interrupted.

(iii). Any member shall resume his seat after making the speech. There after any othermember wishing to speak shall address the Council.

(iv). A member shall not read out a prepared speech. However, he shall quote from writtenor printed articles in order to prove his arguments.

(v). In case of two members wishing to speak at the same time at a meeting the Chairmanshall ask the member who caught his attention first to speak.

(vi). Every member shall limit his observations to the subject under discussion only.

(vii). No member shall impute undesirable motives to any other Member.

(viii). All speeches of private nature shall be avoided

(ix). A member shall speak on the question before the Urban Council or on any amendmentof the question.

(x). No member shall speak more than once in regard to a matter before the Council exceptwhen it is required to make an explanation a point or order or when the Council hastransformed into a Committee.

(xi). Even in the absence of a question before the Council a member shall make anexplanation of private nature with the approval ofthe Council. However, while theexplanation should be limited to absolving his conduct, no debate shall be allowed onthe matter

(xii). A member moving any motion shall have the right to reply after all the members presenthave been given the opportunity of expressing their views on the motion and beforethe question is put to the House. However, while his speech should be limited toreplying the speakers who has participated in the debate he shall not present new facts.The mover of any amendment shall not have the opportunity of replying any further.

(22) (i). Questions pertaining to the activities of the Council shall be put to the Chairman.

(ii). Notice of at least seven working days, excluding Sundays and Public Holidays shall begiven in respect of any question.

(iii). A written reply to each question shall be read out by the Chairman at the Meeting ofthe Council.

(iv). While a Member shall not address the Council on any question the terms contained inany question shall not constitute any argument, or imputation of any motive orexpression of any view or matter rather than limiting to explaining the questioninvolved.

(v). Any Member shall raise a supplementary question for the purpose of getting furtherexplanation in regard to a matter or incident on which a reply has been given at aMeeting. However, the Chairman shall not allow raising of such question if in hisopinion any supplementary question may violate the provisions set out above in thisby-law and on any such occasion the relevant supplementary question shall not beincluded in the record of the Council meeting

Questions andAnswers

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201610A

(23) (i). Any Member presenting a petition or memorandum to the Council shall briefly explainthe objective of the petition or the memorandum.

(ii). Any Member shall not present to the Council any petition, or memorandum or anyother communication not being writtenin a respectable tone and not containing thename and address of the person writing it.

(iii). Any member shall propose that a petition or memorandum be read out to the Council.When the proposal is made he shall briefly state the reasons as to why it is expected toread out the particular document.

(iv). While no debate shall be allowed on the motion no member shall speak on the petitionor the memorandum rather than formally seconding the motion.

(v). When the motion is seconded the question shall be put as to whether the relevantpetition or the memorandum should be read out.

(vi). No members shall submit (proposal) any petition which have already (proposal)submitted at the council by other member.

(vii). It shall be lawful for a member to propose that a petition or memorandum presentedto the Urban Council shall be directed to the Chairman for suitable action or to aCommittee for report on final action to be taken in this regard.

(viii). Administrative committee shall consist of three members.

(ix). Administrative committee shall inquire and submit the inquiry report the generalmeeting of the council.

(x). The council shall function as administrative committee and inquiry report shall bediscussed and discussion shall be taken stun

(xi). In the event of any action being taken to examine the testimony of any witnesses thepetitioner or the member requiring such witnesses shall forward to the Secretary alist containing the names, addresses and vocations of such witnesses at least three daybefore the Scheduled date of the inquiry and the Secretary shall inform the witnessesin writing to present themselves for the inquiry.

(xii). Action shall be taken by the Secretary to hand over the summons or to the reachedbefore three days of the date and time of arrival to witnesses

(xiii). The inquiry proceeding of the petition shall be completed within three months fromthe date of 1st discussion of the petition

(24) While a member raising a point of order should take his seat after raising the matter, noother member shall speak on the matter without approval of the Chairman until the question is resolved bythe Chairman. Thereafter, the member who has been addressing the Council at the time the question wasraised shall have the right to continue with his speech if he is in agreement with the decision of theChairman, of the Council or the Committee of the Council. If he is not in agreement with the decision theChairman shall deny him the opportunity of continuing with the speech.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Tasks not to becarried out (24-27)

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(25) The Urban Council shall censure or act as it considers suitable in respect of a Member whohas not made an explanation in regard to unsuitable words used by him or who has not withdrawn suchwords or who had not expressed his regret in using such words in a manner acceptable to the Council.

(26) When the Chairman expresses his desire to speak the member on his feet at that momentshall take his seat.

(27) (i). The Chairman shall name a member who violates the provisions of the by-laws in thispart by disregarding the authority of the Chair or purposely interrupting the proceedingsover and over again. On a motion presented by some member or by the Chairman tothe effect that “the Urban Council Service of that Member shall be suspended” theChairman shall put the question immediately. Such motion shall not be allowed to beamended, adjourned or debated.

(ii). If the Council service of any member were to be suspended under this by-law as aresult of the approval of any such motion,the suspension shall be effective for durationof one month at the first instance, two months at the second and three months at thethird or subsequent instances.

(iii). Unless a number of members present at a meeting have collectively disregarded theauthority of the Chairman no more than onemember shall be named at a time.

(iv). In the event of any member whose Council service has been suspended under this by-law or a number of members actingcollectively, rejecting at any time during the courseof such suspension, the acceptance of the orders made by the Chairman ofameeting to leave the chambers they shall be reported to the Minister by theChairman for suitable action having named themas members who have not carried outhis decision.

(28) In this part, unless the context otherwise requires –

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of Urban Council

“Chairperson of Meeting” means the Chairman presiding over meetings of the Council for thetime being or the Vice Chairman of the Council who takes the Chair in his absence and it alsoincludes any other member elected on the vote of the members for the Chair in the absenceof both the Chairman and the Vice Chairman.

“Commissioner General of Elections” means the Commissioner General of the Elections Com-mission and it also includes the returning Officer of relevant Urban Council.

“Voice Recordings” means a tape where voice recordings are made mechanically and itincludes a compact disc where voice can be recorded or any other instrument where data canbe stored.

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201612A

PART II -STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE ANDCONTROL OF HAIR DRESSING SALOONS, BARBER SHOPS AND BEAUTY CENTRES WITHIN THEAREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,control and supervise of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centres within the area ofauthority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section157 (9) (i) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Center bythe Chairman of Urban Council, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.

(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition

(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3meters in height

(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides.

(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level.

(v). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi). The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall beatleast 2.5meters from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1metre.

(vii). The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the placewhere the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.

(viii). Provide sufficient sitting space to any customer arriving at the premises expectingservice on the basis of at least 1.5 meters away from the place where the customergetting service is located.

(ix). There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water ifwater is used in providing services to customers

(x). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from theconstructed well.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-25)

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separatelyfor males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons

(xii). The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated fromthe buildings used as a residence.

(xiii). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(xiv). Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under section 5 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) All those who have obtained licence under the by-laws in this part shall wash the floor of thelicensed premises with disinfectants at least once in one month.

(8) At the licensed premises, sufficient water supply during the entire period when they areopened for the customers.

(9) At the licensed premises, enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and asufficient number of utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils used shallbe provided

(10) Wash basins with facilities to wash hands and soap or liquid soap shall be provided for theuse of employees when they are providing services at the licensed premises.

(11) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colours (not indark colors) shall be provided for the use of the customers

(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle with a tight lid to collect cut hair and otherwaste shall be kept

(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event ofelectrically controlled instruments are used.

(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box containing sufficient amount of first aid instru-ments and drugs as prescribed by the Urban Medical Officer of Health shall be kept.

(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner asto be readily available to customers and employees

(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed centre —

(i). engage in their service daily only after a bath or body wash ;

(ii). maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition ;

(iii). keep their nails cut and without any dirt, and

(iv). Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201614A

(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,

(i). instruments used in the licensed centre are sterilized after each use ;

(ii). brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day ;

(iii). Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use.

(18) The licensee shall ensure —

(i). that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of eachcustomer obtaining service at the licensed centre are put into a receptacle havingbeing collected by sweeping or through electrically operated mechanism ; and

(ii). that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, after useof each customer.

(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing pieces ofcut hair are dumped in a pit at least one metre below the ground level at the end of daily activities or ifnecessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure that precau-tionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.

(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the mannerset out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Urban Council scavengingvehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management programme of the Urban Council

(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacleused to collect waste material produced at the licensed centre.

(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop

(23) While every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employeeswho are working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of thatregister when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.

(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keepaffixed a board with his name and the words “Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and BeautyCentre” legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside ofhis premises.

(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medicaltest at least once a year

(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within theauthority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she has a valid licence for the purpose of that, issued bythe Chairman

(27) (i). Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shallnot keep or causes to keep any pet.

(ii). No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item forwashing clothes.

Tasks not to becarried out(26 –34)

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(28) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the licensedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii). No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensed place,unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(29) The interior of a premises issued with a licence under the by-laws in this part shall not beused in the night or in the day time as a place for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall beallowed to do so.

(30) The use of,

(i). any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or

(ii). alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, inrespect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises

(31) The licensee in any licensed centre shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towelthat is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.

(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall bepursued in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the licence issued under the provisions ofthe by-laws in this part.

(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon exceptinto a spittoon provided for that purpose.

(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by SriLankan Law or Medical Officer of Healthof Urban Council at licensed premises.

(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Barber Shop and beauty centreis maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairmanor Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the saidlicensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the pre-scribed position before a specified date.

(36) (i). Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to runany Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centres.

(ii). Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the licence fees for HairDressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centres shall be the duty of Chairman asspecified in above sub section (i)

(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

Function of theLocal Authority

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201616A

(39) (i). The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.

(ii). It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the provisions,to the Chairman or an Authorized officer for inspection, and shall not make obstacle tostop such inspection.

(40) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No 35 in these By- Laws, shall actas stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, theChairman or anAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period ofextension shall not be exceeded 14 days.

(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to cancel the licence issued for theplace when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 40 in these By-Laws fails to actas stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman oranAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of Urban Council

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws ofthe hair dressing saloon, Barber Shop and beauty centre and person who is responsible formanagement, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of thisplace.

“Means place for which is issued license to take all” licensed premise measure under this Provsion.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to makebusiness or product at the specified place.

“apron” means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtainingservice from the licensed centre.

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (39-41)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops and Beauty Centres within thearea of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Business Centre :-

2. Place of the Business Centre:-

(i). Ward No.:-

(ii). Assessment No.:-

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:-

(i). Full Name:-

(ii). Permanent Address:-

(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

(iv). NIC No.:-

(v). Telephone No.:-

(vi). e-mail Address:-

4.(i). Date of Beginning the Business

(ii). Name of the manager of the meat Stall:

(iii). Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

(i). Name of the Owner:

(ii). Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201618A

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i).Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii).Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii).Remarks:………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health:

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Medical Officer of Health

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateAccountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/AuthorizedOfficer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:…………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:……………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..

Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

………………………………. …………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/AuthorizedOfficer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201620A

PART III - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL ANDADMINISTRATE OF THE CREMATORIUMS OF THE URBAN COUNCIL AND CHARGING FEES WITHINTHE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-laws in this part may be cited as the standard By-Laws relating to regularize and controlof the crematoriums of the Urban Council and charging fees.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and Public health,publicutilities services for the people residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the UrbanCouncils Ordinance and maintaining and managing of immovable property

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the Sub section157(9) (e) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Anybody expecting to obtain a licence mentioned in By-law No. 8(hereinafter referred to as“the applicant”) shall forward an application substantially prepared in accordance with the Second Sched-ule to this part together with the documents mentioned below to the Chairman or the Authorized Officer.

(i). (a) The birth certificate of the applicant, or

(b) The birth certificate of the deceased, or

(c) The marriage certificate of the applicant, or

(d) The certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the Division where the deceasedwas living, in order to facilitate the establishment of the relationship between thedeceased and the applicant;

(ii). If an inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code Act No. 15 of 1979 had been made inrespect of the death of the deceased, the certificate issued by the Magistrate or theInquirer-into-Sudden Deaths under paragraph 41(e) of the Registration of Births andDeaths Ordinance giving permission to cremate the dead body or the certificate issuedunder paragraph 43(b) of the Registration of Birth and Deaths Ordinance, in the eventof the dead body being of a still born person, and

(iii). The death certificate of the deceased

(5) Dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation and cremations shall be done between theperiods 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. on all days of the week. If there is any cremation of a corpse in other timeshall be obtained a special license from the Chairman or an Authorized Officer. The maximumnumber ofcorpse which can cremate per day shall be decided by the Urban Council and shall notice on a noticeboardof the crematorium.

(6)(i). The applicant or any authorized representative of him shall take possession of theashes of the body before the elapse of seventy two hours after the cremation of anydead body.

(ii). However, on a written request made by the applicant the Chairman or the AuthorizedOfficer shall extend the period during which the ash are is kept with the CrematoriumKeeper.

(iii). The period of extension for the ash to be kept in the custody of the CrematoriumKeeper under paragraph (ii) of By-Law No 6 shall not be more than six weeks fromthe date of the cremation.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-7)

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv). The Chairman or an Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper shall have the powerto dispose of the ash that has not been removed even after the expiry of such periodallowed for the removal of ashes.

(v). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements tobury the ash not removed by any applicant or any authorized representative at thepremises of the crematorium or in any cemetery.

(7) Notwithstanding anything stated in By-Law No-12

(i). any other person or persons who participate in the handing over of a dead body forcremation with the person who has obtained a licence to cremate it or with his authorizedrepresentative; and

(ii). any other person or persons who arrive at the crematorium on the specified date orearlier to receive ash, with the person who has obtained the licence or with his authorizedrepresentative,shall be considered as persons who have been allowed to enter thepremises of the crematorium

(8)(i). No dead body shall be cremated in any crematorium owned by the Council without alicence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.

(ii). It shall be able to discontinue the cremation a corpse permitted by a formal licencewithin the permitted time period only by a written order of the court or in-chargepolice officer. The Urban Council will not responsible to offer an extra time forallocated time or repay the charges for that, and there is no any right to the applicantfor request.

(9) Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer in to Sudden Deaths has granted permission to cremate adead body on completion of an inquiry made in respect of it by the said Magistrate or the Inquirer intoSudden Deaths, under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979, the Chairman or the AuthorizedOfficer shall not accept it for cremation or issue a licence to cremate it.

(10) Unless the relevant crematorium of the Urban Council has been named in the 7th columnof the Death Certificate of a deceased, under “cause of Death and the place of the burial or cremation’ theChairman or the Authorized Officer shall not accept the dead body for cremation or issue a licence tocremate it.

(11) Nobody other than the Crematorium Keeper or his Assistants shall enter into the coveredsection of the chamber of the Crematorium after the closure of the security door of the chamber onintroducing the dead body into the chamber of any crematorium

(12) Nobody shall enter into the premises of any crematorium without permission from theChairman or an Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper.

(13) Within the premises of any crematorium nobody shall, -

(i). act in a manner disrupting peace ;

(ii). damage or try to damage property within the premises of the crematorium belongingto the Urban Council ;

(iii). obstruct the official functions of the Crematorium Keeper or any of his Assistants;

(iv). decorate or paste notices within the premises of the crematorium.

Tasks not to becarried out (8 –13)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201622A

(14) In the event of a decision being arrived at to issue a licence on an application made forpermission to cremate a dead body, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer toregister the death in the sequence such applications are received in a Register substantially preparedaccording to the Third Schedule to this part. This Register shall be maintained at the Office of the UrbanCouncil accepting applications.

(15) In the event of accepting any dead body for cremation in accordance with the applicationforwarded, the applicant shall be issued with the permit by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer aftercharging the fees levied according to By-law No. 20. The time and the date on which the dead body due tobe cremated according to the permit should be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper shall be clearlyspecified in the relevant permit.

(16) In the event of a dead body being not accepted for cremation due to some reason theChairman or the Authorized Officer shall take steps to immediately inform the applicant in writing aboutit, specifying the reasons for such non-acceptance.

(17) The Crematorium Keeper shall maintain a Register substantially prepared in accordancewith the Fourth Schedule to this part, in regard to each dead body cremated in any crematorium.

(18) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to maintain and operate thecrematoriums in conditions suitable for cremation of dead bodies;

(19) The Urban Council has the right to burn or bury the corpse or a part of the corpse respect-fully when there is a technical defect of crematorium during the cremation of a corpse and unable torecover within short period.

(20) In the event of the closure of any crematorium for the purpose of repairs or maintenanceactivities it shall be the duty of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer to display prominently a notice onit in all the three languages at the Office issuing licence for cremation of dead bodies and at the entranceto the crematorium premises.

(21) (i). While it is possible to determine by Resolution approved by the Secretary the chargesfor the cremation of a dead body it shall be amended from time to time on such approvalof a Resolution.

(ii). While charges levied or amended from time to time under paragraph (i) above shall bepublished in the Gazette it shall be prominently displayed at the place where applicationsare received for booking the crematorium and at the crematorium.

(iii). The charges for the cremation of a dead body shall be levied under the classificationset out in the First Schedule of this part.

(22) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(23) The dead body shall be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper on or before the timespecified in the licence issued. The Urban Council, the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall not besubjected to responsibility in respect of any inconvenience or loss caused to the applicant or anybodyelse having rights over the deceased due to the failure to handover the dead body on time.However thelicence issued shall be valid on that day only

(24) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the crematium

Function of theUrban Council(14 -20)

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(25) Permit holder or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(26) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(27) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(28) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected asChairman by the provisions of the Local Authori-ties Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Cremation chamber” means the chamber where the dead body is kept and the outer

“Crematorium premise” means the whole crematorium and the land on which it is located.

“Crematorium keeper” means any employee appointed by the Council to be in-charge of thecrematorium and its functions.

“Ash” means any matter left behind after cremating a dead body.

“Dead body” means the entire dead body of a deceased person or the dead body of a still bornperson or any part of a dead body.

FIRST SCHEDULE

BY-LAW No. 20(iii)

FEES FOR USE OF THE CREMATORIUM

Rs. cts.

(1) To cremate the dead body of an adult living in the area of authority.……….(2) To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult living in the area of authority……….(3) To cremate the dead body of an adult living outside the area of authority.……….(4) To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult, living outside the area of authority……….(5) To cremate the dead body of an adult of a Samurdhi family living in the area of authority……….(6) To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult of a Samurdhi family livingin the area of authority……….

A child below the age of 12 years is considered here as a person who is not an adult.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201624A

SECOND SCHEDULE

BY-LAW No.4

(To be forwarded in duplicate)

FrontPage

APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE TO CREMATE A DEAD BODY AT THE CREMATORIUM OF …… … … … URBAN COUNCIL

(1) Full name of the applicant: - … … … … … … … … … …

Address: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … …

Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: - … …

(2) Full Name of the deceased: - … … … … … … … … … …

Sex: - … … … … …

Address of the residence: - … … … … … … … … … … …

Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: - … …

National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … …

(3) Applicant’s relationship to the deceased: - … … … … …

(Please annex a certificate stated in paragraph (i) of By-law No. 4 in order to establish the relation-ship)

(4)Registration No. and Date of the Death Certificate: - … …

(Annex a copy of the Death Certificate)

(5)Name and Division of the Registrar of Deaths: - … … … …

(6)Cause of Death: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

(7)In the event of an inquiry being held into the Death:

(8)(Annex the Certificate stated in Paragraph (ii) of By-law No. 4)

Name and Designation of the Inquiring Officer: - … …… …

Date of Inquiry: - … … … … … … … …;

Determination of the Inquiring Officer: - … … … … … …;

Has the Inquiring officer given permission to cremate the dead body?: … … ……… …

(9)Date and time applied for the cremation: - … … … … … …

(According to the sequence of preference)

DateTimeDateTime

(i).… … … 20 … … … Hours (iii) … … … 20 … … … Hours

(ii). … … … 20 … … … Hours (iv) … … … 20 … … … Hours

I hereby certify that the information stated above are true and accurate. I further state that I take fullresponsibility for the information given here. Relevant certificates are annexed.

… … … … …

Signature of the Applicant. Date: … … … 20 … …

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Second Schedule

Mr./Mrs./Miss … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

Sir / Madam

Refusal to issue a licence to cremate a dead body

It is regretted to inform you that the issuing of a licence in accordance with the application overleaf forwarded by you has beenrefused for the following reasons:-

(i). ……………………………………………………………………….

(ii).……………………………………………………………………….

(iii).……………………………………………………………………….

(iv).……………………………………………………………………….

(v).……………………………………………………………………….

Signature of Chairman/Authorized Officer

(Please affix the official seal).

Date: - … … … … … 20 … …

Crematorium Keeper,

… … … … … … … … Crematorium.

Licence issued to cremate a Dead Body

(a) Permission is hereby granted to cremate the dead body of ………………………. at ………… a.m. / p.m. on ……… 20………………at the ……………Crematorium.

(b) The information given in the application overleaf has been entered in the Register according to By-law, No. 6.

(c) A sum of Rs. ……………..has been charged through Receipt No………………….dated …… 20………….

(d) Please take action to cremate the dead body after making necessary entries in the relevant Register as stated in By-law,No. 11 with reference to information given in this licence.

(e) The Serial Number of the Permit Register is ………………………………..

……………………………….Signature of the Chairman/Authorized Officer.(Please affix the Official Seal).

Date: ……………

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201626A

THIRD SCHEDULE

REGISTER OF LICENCES ISSUED TO CREMATE DEAD BODIES AT THE CREMATORIUM OF … … … …… … … … … … … … … … … … … URBAN COUNCIL

Serial No.

Name of the Deceased

NIC No.

Sex

Date of Death

No.

Date

Name

Relationship to the Deceased

Address

NIC No.

Reference No.

Date

Permit

No.

Amount Rs.

Allotted Date

Allotted time

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

Death

Certificate

Registration

Applicants

Order of the Magistrate/Inquirer-into- Sudden Deaths

Receipts

Cremation

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

FOURTH SCHEDULE

REGISTER ON DEAD BODIES CREMATED AT THE CREMATORIUM AT………………………………………..URBAN COUNCIL

Serial No.

Name of the Deceased

NIC No.

Sex

Date of Death

No.

Date

Name

NIC No.

Permit

No.

Amount Rs.

Date of removal of ashes

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

Death

Certificate

Registration

Applicants

Receipts

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201628A

Chapter 2

PART I-STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL ANDMONITOR OF EATING-HOUSES, RESTAURANTS, TEA OR COFFEE SHOPS AND SIMILAR SHOPWITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in rel,ating to formulate, regularize,monitor and control of eating-houses, restaurants and tea or coffee shop or similar shop within the areaof authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section157(9) (h) and (9) (m) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordi-nance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any eating-house, restaurant and tea or coffee shop or similarshop by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Urban Council, if only the following specified conditionsare duly fulfilled.

(i) The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition

(ii) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height

(iii) These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any otherrooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metalsheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.

(iv) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level.

(v) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi) The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter

(vii) The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii) Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and thebins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting intothem.

(ix) The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and otheranimals getting into them.

(x) Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 11

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-17)

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi) Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,

(a) when the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeablematerial or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.

(b) when the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shallbe painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polishedimpermeable material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.

(xii) A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to beobtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the NationalWater Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the QualityCertificate has been obtained.

(xiii) If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xiv) A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.

(xv) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separatelyfor males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatoriesshall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such amanner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(xvi) The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestoneor any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. Whilethe walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. Thefloor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.

(xvii) Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at thelicensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) respect of lavatories of this By-Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms, as well.

(xviii) Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room shall be madein safe manner by pipe line.

(xix) Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using sectionof premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clayand polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.

(xx) A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises;

(xxi) In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from theconstructed well.

(xxii) At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201630A

(xxiii) At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks areprepared shall have been covered with joint less and –stainless metal sheets or tiles orwith any impermeable material.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law No 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.

(8) The drains carrying waste water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washedwith water at least twice daily.

(9) Bathrooms and lavatories in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and sprayed with disin-fectants twice a day. Further they shall be maintained without unpleasant smell.

(10) The licensee shall ensure that every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparationof food, exhibition, sale and the use of the customers in the licensed premises shall be washed in cleanwater before use and after use as well.

(11) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law12 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put orremoved.

(12) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows :

a) Bio-degradable wastes;

b) Glass;

c) Paper or paper related materials;

d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;

e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

g) Hazardous waste.

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(13) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insectsand it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept thereand food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.

(14) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or anyother instruments shall be used to serve food.

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(15) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be pro-vided with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licenseeto ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safetymaterials when they are on duty.

(16) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(17) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(18) No person shall run an eating-house, restaurant and tea or coffee shop or similar shopswithin the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she has a valid permit for the purpose of that,issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(19) (i). Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve inany unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.

(ii). Any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine ormaking any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging housesor residence living closely.

(20) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and thereof the land or anywhere else in the premises.

(21) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorizedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii). Person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized place,unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(22) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No 24

(23) (i). No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products notcontained the minimum compositional requirements of as per the annexure 1 shownbelow accordance with the food regulations published in the Gazette of DemocraticSocialist Republic of Srilanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food act No 26 of 1980.

(ii). Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit forhuman consumption.

(24) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.

(25) In the event of the premises where any eating place, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop orsimilar shop is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Lawset out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the saidlicensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the pre-scribed position before a specified date.

Tasks not to becarried out(18 – 23)

Function of theUrban Council(24 - 25)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201632A

Charges andfees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (29 –32)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretationand definition

(26) Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated torun eating-houses, restaurants, teaor coffee shops and similar shops.

(27) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council.

(28) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(29) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(30) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman orAuthorized officer.

(31) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 25, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall notbe exceeded 14 days.

(32) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when anylicensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law 31 fails to act as stipulated in the notice on orbefore the specified date.

(33) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(34) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(35) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liableto the penalties in terms of Section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further incase of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has thejurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).

(36) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires.

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Council Chairman by the provisions ofthe Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilsfor Urbanity.

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry out

particular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws of

the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge

or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this

provision.

“Eating-house or restaurant” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for

sale or kept for display or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are

prepared and kept for sale or display.”

“Tea or coffee shop” means, a place is maintain to prepare tea, coffee or similar drinks for sale

with bakery products or other short eats or without foods.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make

business or product at the specified place.

Annexure -01

Compositional Requirements of Milk

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IVClass of milkDesignationMilk fatMilk solids other thanminimum percentmilk fact minimumpercent

1.BuffaloRow, pasteurised7.09.0or sterilised

2. cowDo3.58.5

3. StandardisedPasteurised or sterilised3.258.25

4. TonedDo2.08.5

5. FlavouredDo2.07.2

6. SkimmedDo-8.5

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201634A

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting Eating-houses, Restaurants, Teaor Coffee shops and similar shops within the area of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Business centre:-

2. Place of the Business centre:-

(i).Ward No.:-

(ii).Assessment No.:-

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:-

(i).Full Name:-

(ii).Permanent Address:-

(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

(iv). NIC No.:-

(v).Telephone No.:-

(vi). e-mail Address:-

4. (i).Date of Beginning

(ii).Type of business:

(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:

(iv). Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

i. Name of the Owner:

ii. Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201636A

For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..

Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

PART II - STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND MONITORHOTELS WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,control and monitor hotels within the area of authority of Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the Sub section 157(9)(h) and (9)(m) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The licence shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of UrbanCouncil, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the regulations no-ticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No 41 of 1978.

(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.

(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.

(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any otherrooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metalsheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.

(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres fromfloor level.

(v). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.

(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter.

(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii). Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and thebins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting intothem.

(ix). The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and otheranimals getting into them.

(x). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.

(xi). Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,

a) when the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeablematerial or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Law

Tasks to beexecuted (4-19)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201638A

b) when the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shallbe painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polishedimpermeable material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.

(xii). A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to beobtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the NationalWater Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the QualityCertificate has been obtained.

(xiii). If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xiv). A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.

(xv). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separatelyfor males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatoriesshall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such amanner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(xvi). The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestoneor any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. Whilethe walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. Thefloor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.

(xvii). Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at thelicensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of thisBy -Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.

(xviii). Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room shall be madein safe manner by pipe line.

(xix). Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using sectionof premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clayand polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.

(xx). A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises;

(xxi). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from theconstructed well.

(xxii). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(xxiii). At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks areprepared shall have been covered with joint less and stainless metal sheets or tiles orwith any impermeable material.

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xxiv). All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers andemployees, shall be at least 04 square metres for one person (2 m length X 2m width).Further, an almyrah or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keeptowel or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attachedbathrooms shall be there.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law No 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying wastewater in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.

(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedspreads, pillowcovers, blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before tobe provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely openedat least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there shall beat least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air condition inoperation.

(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address, andidentity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to allow it, tobe examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.

(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean everyroom, stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.

(11) Latrines and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with disinfec-tants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating odour. However, it may beconsidered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which customers are stay-ing once a day.

(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items orimplements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to beconsumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after using.

(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put orremoved.

(14) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows :

(a) Bio-degradable wastes;

(b) Glass;

(c) Paper or paper related materials;

(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g) Hazardous waste.

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201640A

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman.

(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insectsand it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept thereand food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.

(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or anyother instruments shall be used to serve food.

(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be pro-vided with clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licenseeto ensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safetymaterials when they are on duty.

(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or shehas a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom.

(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply withthe minimum space specified in paragraph (xxiv) of By Law 5

(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.

(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and thereof the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified.

(25) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorizedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed

(ii). No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(26) (i). Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve inany unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.

(ii). any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine ormaking any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging housesor residence living closely.

Tasks not to becarried out( 20 –29)

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No 30

(28) (i). No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products notcontained the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown belowaccordance with the food regulations published in the Gazette of Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food act, No. 26 of 1980.

(ii). Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit forhuman consumption.

(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of

(i). more than one bed in a single bedroom

(ii). more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom

(iii). more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom,and

(iv). more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single bedsor five single beds in a family room.

Further, in respect of any hotel the licence shall not allow more than one person tosleep in a single room or more than two in a double room or more than three in tripleroom. However, when the age of the anybody sleeping in any room that person isbelow 12 years shall not be considered as one person for purpose of this section.

(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise

(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a licence issued, anylicence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Urban Authorized Officer shall takeaction to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to re-store the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(32) Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels

(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council.

(34) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31stDecember of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman orany Authorized officer.

(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 31, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall notbe exceeded 14 days.

Function of theUrban Council(30 – 31)

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (35-38)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201642A

(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when anylicensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulatedin the notice on or before the specified date.

(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence.

(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).

(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilsfor Urbanity.

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Urban Development Authority “ means, the Urban Development Authority constituted underurban Development Law No. 41 of 1978.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to makebusiness or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of this by law of thehotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge orManager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for displayor any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats are prepared and kept forsale or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;

“Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two doublebeds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;

“Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with adouble bed and one single bed or three single beds ;

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Law

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

“Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed or

two single beds.

“Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only one bed.

“Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed and

a mattress ;

”Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with one

mattress and a bed ;

Annexure - 01

Compositional Requirements of Milk

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IVClass of milkDesignationMilk fat minimumMilk solids otherpercent than milk factminimum percent

1.BuffaloRow, pasteurised or sterilised7.09.0

2. cowDo3.58.5

3. StandardisedPasteurised or sterilised3.258.25

4. TonedDo2.08.5

5. FlavouredDo2.07.2

6. SkimmedDo-8.5

SCHEDULE -01

Application For Business tax / Licence 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area ofauthority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Business centre:-

2.Place of the Business centre:-

i. Ward No.:

ii. Assessment No.:

iii. Name of the Road/Street:

iv. GN Division No. & Name:

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201644A

3. Name of the Applicant:-

i. Full Name:-

ii. Permanent Address:-

iii. GN Division No. & Name:-

iv. NIC No.:

v. Telephone No.:

vi. e-mail Address

4.i. Date of Beginning:

ii. Type of business:-

iii. Name of the manager of the Business Centre / Agent name:

iv. Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

i. Name of the Owner:

ii. Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes :No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

7. The number of:

i. Single rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….

ii. Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….

iii. Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………

iv. Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……

v. All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …

8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …

9. Toilets :

(i). The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …

(ii). The number of toilets for female employees:… … …

(iii). The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …

(iv). The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

10. Bathrooms:

(i). The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …

(ii). The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …

11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …

12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …

13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I, agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I, apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue Branch,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………DatePublic Health Inspector

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201646A

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the

Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the

License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-14)

PART III- STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND MONITORLODGING HOUSES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,control and monitor lodging houses within the area of authority of Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the Sub section 157(9)(e) of Urban Council Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Council Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The licence shall be issued to run any lodge by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of UrbanCouncil, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the regulations no-ticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978.

(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.

(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.

(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or approved stonesand plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any other roomswhich are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metal sheetsand painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to these provisions.

(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3.0 metresfrom floor level.

(v). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.

(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter.

(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii). Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and thebins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting intothem.

(ix). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law 12.

(x). A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be obtained atleast once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supplyand Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate hasbeen obtained.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201648A

(xi). If the water is stored for the use of licensed place, adequate protective measures shallbe taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xii). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separatelyfor males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatoriesshall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such amanner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(xiii). The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestoneor any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. Whilethe walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. Thefloor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.

(xiv). Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at thelicensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xiii) respect of lavatories of theseBy-Laws shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms, as well.

(xv). Facilities, to supply water that is used at licensed premise to each room, shall be madein safe manner by pipeline.

(xvi). Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using sectionof premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clayand polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.

(xvii). A suitable system of drain shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises.

(xviii). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metre away from theconstructed well.

(xix). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(xx). All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers andemployees, shall be at least 04 square metres for one person (2 m length X 2m width).Further, an almyrah or cabinet to keep clothes, a bar made by wood or metal to keeptowel or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attachedbathrooms shall be there.

(xxi). Licensed premises shall have a separate room as a kitchen with an efficient outlet forsmoke.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(7) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedspreads, pillowcovers, blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before tobe provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely openedat least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there shall beat least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air condition inoperation.

(8) While every licensed premise shall maintain a register to note the address and identify ofeach person coming to say overnight in the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allowinspection of that register when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(9)(i). It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean everyroom, stairs, drains and the premises before noon every day.

(ii). The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carryingwaste water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water atleast twice daily.

(10) Latrines and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied with disinfec-tants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating odor. However, it may be con-sidered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which customers are stayingonce a day.

(11) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo 12 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put orremoved.

(12) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows :

(a) Bio-degradable wastes;

(b) Glass;

(c) Paper or paper related materials;

(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g) Hazardous waste

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(13) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(14) It is the responsibility of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nailbrush and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201650A

(15) No person shall run a lodge within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or shehas a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(16) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved asbedroom.

(17) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply withthe minimum space specified in paragraph (xx) of By-Law No 5.

(18) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of

(i). more than one bed in a single bed room

(ii). more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bed room

(iii). more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bed room,and

(iv). more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single bedsor five single beds in a family room. Further, in respect of any lodge the licenseeshall not allow more than one person to sleep in a single room or more than two in adouble room or more than three in triple room and so on. However, when the age ofthe anybody sleeping in any room that person is below 12 years shall not be consideredas one person for purpose of this section.

(19) It is duty of the licensee to ensure that any lodging house is not use for illegal activities anyperson shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machine or making any unnecessarynoise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or residence living closely.

(20) No animals shall be kept at any licensed premise.

(21) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and thereof land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place as specified.

(22) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of licensed place,or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii). No person should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized place, unlessthey are dressed in clean clothes ;

(23) In the event of the premises where any lodge is maintained under a licence issued under theBy-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officershall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(24) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run lodge.

Tasks not to becarried out( 15 – 22)

Function of theUrban Council

Charges and fees

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(25) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council.

(26) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Law shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(27) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to in-spect the standards of these By-Law within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(28) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer.

(29) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No 23, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall notbe exceeded 14 days.

(30) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 29 fails to act as stipu-lated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(31) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(32) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(33) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).

(34) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

”The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

”Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilsfor Urbanity.

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Urban Development Authority “ means, the Urban Development Authority constituted underUrban Development Authority Law No 41 of 1978.

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (27-30)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-Law

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201652A

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to makebusiness or product at the specified place.

”Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Lawsof the lodging houses and person who is responsible for management, is employed by theperson in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Lodge” or “Lodging house”means, a house or a part of house in which on a payment, lodging isprovided for two or more persons who are not members of the same family but does notinclude a hospital or a rest house.

“Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having two doublebeds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;

“Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with adouble bed and one single bed or three single beds ;

“Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed ortwo single beds.

“Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only onebed ;

“Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bed anda mattress ;

“Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with onemattress and a bed ;

SCHEDULE - 01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20…. For conducting lodging Houses within the area ofauthority of Urban Council

(1) Name of the Business centre:-

(2) Place of Business centre-

(i). Ward No.:

(ii). Assessment No.:

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:

(3) Name of the Applicant:-

(i). Full Name:-

(ii). Permanent Address:-

(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv). NIC No.:

(v). Telephone No.:

(vi). e-mail Address

(4)(i). Date of Beginning:

(ii). Type of business:-

(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:

(iv). Previous Business:-

(5) If it is rented building,

(i). Name of the Owner:

(ii). Address:-

(6) Whether last year licence was obtained:- Yes: No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

(7) The number of:

(i). Single rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….

(ii). Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….

(iii). Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………

(iv). Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……

(v). All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …

(8) The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …

(9) Toilets :

(i). The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …

(ii). The number of toilets for female employees:… … …

(iii). The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …

(iv). The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

(10) Bathrooms:

(i). The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …

(ii). The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …

(11) The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …

(12) Source of water supply: … … … … … …

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201654A

(13) Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under theBy Law.

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSignature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………DatePublic Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health's Report :……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

55AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChief Revenue Inspector.

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateAccountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Department

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the

Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the

License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201656A

PART IV - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL ANDMONITOR OF BAKERIES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regular-ize, control and monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the Sub section157 (9) (h) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with Section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The licence shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of UrbanCouncil, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.

(i). Premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition whether heat is obtained byusing firewood, electricity or any other way.

(ii). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(iii). Each room shall be ceiled and applied with white color paint.

(iv). The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.

(v). The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least in aheight of three (3) metres from the ground level of the room.

(vi). Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones withboth sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls havebeen completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timbershall be applied with paints.

(vii). All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.

(viii). While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be atleast 2.5 metres above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least1 meter in width.

(ix). A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be obtained atleast once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supplyand Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificate hasbeen obtained.

(x). If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xi). Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room, shall bemade in safe manner by pipe line.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-24)

57AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xii). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metre away from theconstructed well.

(xiii). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.

(xiv). When the bakery requesting a licence is one using wood,

(xv). The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built a heightof at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.

(a) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removedfrom the oven of the bakery shall be supplied.

(b) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.

(c) A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.

(xvi). When the bakery requesting a licence is using electricity-

(a) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall be in asafe condition, trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage andleaks in electricity shall have been fixed.

(b) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premisesshall be drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.

(6) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instru-ments shall have been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery

(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No 5 to have been applied with paints shall be so appliedwith paints at least once a year.

(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a month.

(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smooth thejoins shall have been joined leaving no space between the joins. Otherwise they shall be covered withstainless metal sheets without joints

(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in propermaintaining condition.

(12) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials after washingtheir bodies or bath when they are on duty at the license premises.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201658A

(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By LawNo. 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a month or more than if neces-sary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or removed.

(14) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows

(a) Bio-degradable wastes;

(b) Glass;

(c) Paper or paper related materials;

(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g) Hazardous waste.

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(15) A separate room exclusively used for the storage of flour and other ingredients used in thebakery, shall be maintained. It shall be sufficiently ventilated. It shall be secured against entry of rats, fliesor any other kind of insects.

(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 a rack made of timber ona stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack shall have beenfinished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover, while the said rackshall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects remaining underneath it, thestructure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.

(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken outand cleaned at least twice a month.

(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately formales and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructedat a distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale of prod-ucts such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes toclean nails and soap or fluid soap.

(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronicbalance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under theprovisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any customer theweight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.

(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall bethe duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of wastematerial or water

59AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside ofhis premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,Sinhala and English.

(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorized bythe Chairman or Authorized Officer

(24) Name list (sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman orAuthorized Officer or Authorized Officer

(25) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless havinga valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer

(26) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakeryproducts are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of bakeryproducts at any time.

(27) (i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorizedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii). Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premise.

(28) Unauthorized chemicals and colourings shall not be used for the bakery products.

(29) While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws inthis part, action shall be taken not to keep or store any other material other than the instruments ormaterials used for the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for theemployees of the bakery shall not be included to this.

(30) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products.Further, when unground water tank is constructed waste fit or ash fit shall not be constructed a distance of18 metres.

(31) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.

(32) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided forpurpose.

(33) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 34

(34) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer topurchase a Sample of any kind of bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for purpose ofINspection at the Licensed premise.

(35) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a licence issued underthe By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officershall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

Tasks not to becarried out(25-33)

Functions of theUrban Council(34-35)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201660A

(36) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Council Ordinance, Secretary has the authority tocharge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels

(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(38) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(39) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(40) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of these By-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer or any authorized officer.

(41) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 35, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall notbe exceeded 14 days

(42) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 41 fails to act as stipu-lated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(43) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(44) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence.

(45) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(46) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (39-42)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-Law

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

61AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to make business orproduct at the specified place

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of this by law of the hotel and personwho is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management ofthis place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under this provision.

“Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured in any bakery forsale or on order placed by any person.

“Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets are manufactured and it shallalso include any place where such food prepared or where goods are stored for preparation of such food.

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area of authority of UrbanCouncil

1. Name of the Business centre:-

2. Place of the Business centre:-

(i). Ward No.:-

(ii).Assessment No.:-

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:-

(i). Full Name:-

(ii). Permanent Address:-

(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

(iv). NIC No.:-

(v). Telephone No.:-

(vi). e-mail Address:-

4.

(i). Date of Beginning

(ii). Type of business:

(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:

(iv). Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

(i). Name of the Owner:

(ii). Address:-

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201662A

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes: No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………DatePublic Health Inspector

63AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….………………………………………… DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.: ……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.: ………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………………

Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for Signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….………………………………………… Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201664A

Name of By-laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-6)

tasks should notbe executed

Function of theUrban Council( 8-12 )

CHAPTER 3

PART I - STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO FORMULATE, MONITOR AND ADMINISTRATE THEPUBLIC PLAYGROUND WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,monitor and administrate Public playgrounds within the area of authority of Urban Council.

(2) The By-laws in this part are made for the purpose of providing playground facilities to socialdevelopment and maintaining and managing of immovable property of the Urban Council within theUrban Councils limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section157(6) (a) (c) and (15) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance

(4) Any person who expects to obtain a permit to make use of any playground owned by theUrban Council shall forward an application that is in schedule – 1

(5) The permit to make use of any playground owned by the Urban Council shall be issued by theChairman or Authorized Officer if only the conditions that are stated in these By-Laws are fulfilled.

(6) Any person who expects to use the playground shall submit an application to reserve theplayground at least three days before the expected day of such use. Further, the reservation made accord-ing to the said application shall be subjected to the provisions in By-Law No. 7.

(7)(i). Any person shall not damage or not to allow to damage the playground owned by theUrban Council, and shall not lead cattle, pigs, horses, ponies, asses, dogs or any otheranimals into the playground. Further, any vehicle shall not be taken into any playgroundwithout permission obtained from the Chairman or Authorized Officer

(ii). Any person, shall not be in intoxicated state, shall not misbehave, shall not be aftertaking drugs and shall not make nuisance unnecessarily to the outsiders.

(iii). Any person shall not use a reserved playground for any other purpose except the onewhich it was reserved for.

(iv). A permit issued for the reservation of a playground shall not be transferred to anyperson for any reason.

(v). Permit holder or his representative or user of the playground or spectators or anyperson shall not cause any loss to furniture and fittings, electrical equipment, watersupply equipment and any other assets belonging to Urban Council in the playground.

(8)(i). An application for issue of a permit to make use of the playground shall be consideredin the sequence in which that has been received by the Urban Council.

(ii). Priority for the use of the playground shall be given to applications for any sports orsports related events among the applications received for the use of a playground.

65AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(9) In the event of any applicant needing the cancellation of the reservation of any playground,after it has been reserved under the provisions of the By-Laws, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shallallow such cancellation, subject to the following conditions.

(i). When the application for cancellation of reservation is forwarded,

(a) A Three months prior to the date on which the playground has reserved, fivepercent of the fees paid,

(b) Two months prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, tenpercent of the fees paid,

(c) One month prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, fifteenpercent of the fees paid,

(d) Fifteen days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, twentyfive percent of the fees paid,

(e) Seven days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, fiftypercent of the fees paid,

(f) Three days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, seventyfive percent of the fees paid, shall not be refunded from Urban Councils fund.

(ii). When the application for cancellation of the reservation is forwarded in a period oftime less than three days to the date on which the playground was reserved the feespaid shall not be refunded fully.In the event of cancelling any reservation, the applicantshall have the right to get the full refund of security deposit for such reservation.

(10) When an application forwarded for the reservation of a playground by any person is re-jected it is the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to inform the applicant in writing early aspossible on the day of such application itself or within the reasonable period, for such rejection.

(11) On any occasion when any playground has not been reserved for any purpose according tothe provisions of the By-laws in this part, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer toallow such playground to be used for sports practice or training in sports without fees.

(12) In the event of any playground reserved under the provisions of the By-laws in this partbeing required for any essential matter of the Chairman or Authorized Officer, on the day of such reser-vation itself, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel such reservation. If suchcancellation is effected,

(i). The applicant shall be informed in writing about the cancellation three days prior tothe date of such reservation of the playground and the fees paid by him, and the depositmoney shall be refunded fully. Furthermore, such cancellation shall not be effectedless than three days prior to the date of reservation.

(ii). The Chairman or Urban Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel the permitissued to a particular day due to the urgent or special requirement within three days tothe date such reservation made. However reasonable compensation shall be given tothe permit holder when the cancellation is occurred. But, it shall be confirmed that itis an advantage to the Urban Council by giving compensation other than the lossesoccurring when the cancellation is not made.When the cancellation of a reservedplayground for special requirement by Urban Council in terms of para (i), Council hasno responsibility to any claim of compensation for damages due to the cancellation tothe permit holder or any institution.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201666A

(13) (i). The permit shall be issued on the basis of decision made by the Urban Councilsaccordance with the table set out in the schedule II, only after payment of fees forreservation of the playgrounds and deposit money made by applicant.

(ii). Council has the authority to request to pay the fees and the security deposit beforethree days as determined by the council from time to time

(14) After the use of any playground reserved for any purpose, only after deducting

(i). the cost of any damage caused to the playground or any section or any assets belongingto the Urban Council

(ii). The fees that shall be paid on behalf of the extra period of time utilized theplayground.The Balance amount of the deposit shall be paid back to the applicant

(15) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(16) (i). All permits that, issued under these By-laws are valid for the days or hours for howlong they are allowed unless they have been cancelled before.

(ii). In the event of the necessity to get the date of reservation of any playground changedthe applicant shall forward a written request in this regard to the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer. The amendment of the date of reservation made according to such requestshall be subject to provisions in By-Laws No. 9 and 10.

(17) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspectplayground within the specified period at the licensed premises

(18) It shall be duty of the permit holder who have received permit for use of playground underthe provisions to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to theChairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.

(19) Permit holder or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(20) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(21) (i). It shall be lawful to cancel the permit when the contravention or breach occurred interms of these By-Laws

(ii). It shall be lawful to charge compensation from the permit holder for damaging theplayground or assets in the playground.

(iii). Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within theUrban limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of theUrban Council Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable toadditional fine in terms of section 153(2)

Charges andfares(13 – 14)

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (17-18)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

67AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(22) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity”

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Permit holder” means, any person whosoever obtained a permit under provisions of these By-Laws.

“Playground” means, any place allocated by Urban Council for the purpose of sports and it shallinclude the wall or fence erected around the playground or any building constructed withinthe playground or any section of such construction any fittings or instruments.

“Sports” shall have the same interpretation stated in the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973.

SCHEDULE -01

Application for permission to use the … … … … … … …Playground in … … … … … Urban Council

Name of the Applicant: … … … … … … … … … … … …

Address: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … …

Reason for application: - … … … … … … … … … … … …

Date and Time when the playground is required:

From … … … … … … To … … … … … … Time … … …

I hereby certify that the above information is true and accurate. In the event of the allocation ofthe relevant playground as a result of this request I agree that the Urban Council shall deduct the cost ofany damages caused to the buildings, constructions, instruments and fittings of the playground if andwhen such damage is caused. Meanwhile, in the event of the said deposit being not sufficient to affectsuch recoveries, I agree to pay any further amount of money require in this respect. Moreover, I agree toobey the provisions in By-laws relating to the regularizing, control and supervision of the playgrounds.

Date …………

……………………

Signature of the Applicant

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201668A

SCHEDULE - 02

According to By-Law No. 13 in this part - Table of fees charged for the use of a playground

No.Name of theFees Rs. Cts.Deposit Rs. Cts.Fees forPlaygroundan extra hourRs. Cts.

1

2

3

4

Part II - By-Laws relating to prevent from damages to the roads and obstructions to the roadtransport and formulate regularize, monitor and administrate roads within the area of author-ity of Urban Council.

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to prevent from damages tothe roads and obstructions to the road transport and formulate regularize, monitor and administrate theroads within the area of authority of Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of preventing from damages to the roadsbelong to Urban Council and obstructions to the road transport.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section157 (7)(c) and (e) of Urban Council Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Council Ordinance

(4)(i). In event entry is required any plot of land through drain that related to any road ofUrban Council ,it shall be duty of the owner or occupier of that land to construct abridge, a platform or an arch with approval of Urban Council.

(ii). In the event of using Urban Council roads to transport timber, sands or metal, a formalpermit shall have to be obtained to resolve the cost of damages that would occur in theprocess, paying different feesfor different type of vehicles which shall be determinedfrom time to time by the council and published by Gazette notification.

(5) No person shall cause any damage to roadway that belongs to the Urban Council or carry outany of the following activities

(i). Selling

(ii). Parking of vehicles in a place other than in the places reserved for the purpose by theUrban Council unless it is due to some reasons making it impossible to start thevehicle in order to take it out of the park or to drive it out of the park due to someother damage caused.

(iii). Repairing or washing vehicles

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legistrativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted

Tasks should notbe executed(5 – 18)

69AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv). Stockpiling condemned parts of vehicles

(v). Unloading or stockpiling metal, sand, barrels, soil, bricks or planks ,except in the caseof effecting repairs to a road as determined by the Chairman or Urban Council

(6) No person shall fill or damage a drain situated along any road or obstruct the free flow ofwater along any drain.

(7) While no person shall make any construction within twenty five feet (7.62 metre) from thecentral line of any road in which street line have not been demarcated for a road more than fifty feet(15.24 metres) wide under the provision of section 19 of housing and Town Improvement Ordinance,action shall not be taken to stock any building material brought for any other construction on any road oron any part of that road.

(8) No person shall act in contravention to an order made by the Urban Council AuthorizedOfficer under section 19 of these By-Laws or obstruct or cause to be obstructed any person action undersuch order

(9) No person shall gather, heap or remove stones, barrels, sand, soil or any other material alongthe road that belong to the Urban Council except order in writing made by Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer

(10) Waste water flowing from any land or from a building located in it, shall have to be divertedto a suction pit, and shall not be diverted to any road or to a drain that runs alongside the road, except in thecase of rain water that falls on the land, the roof of the building and excreted water from the well when itis cleaned, located on the land.

(11) No person shall transport dust, sand or any other similar thing by any vehicle on a UrbanCouncil roads unless such vehicle is converted to prevent emission of such thing

(12) No person shall destroy , pull down or deface, fall down any milestone, mile post, bound-ary store, boundary post , lamp post, guard post, bridge, culvert, wall, arch, dam, drain, shine ,retainingwall, hand rail, chain, fence, name board, sign board belongs to any Avenue or cause damages, to them oraffix to them any poster, notice, hand bill

(13) No person shall remove any fence, post, stone, log or any other obstruction placed orerected on any road, on the direction of any proper authority for the avoidance of use of such roadtemporarily or repairing it.

(14) No vehicle or cart shall not be driven or ridden or parked on the road with any log, plank,iron bar or any other such thing as ejected side wards of the wheels.

(15) No person shall not drag or make drag any log or any other such thing on vehicle or cart onroads as to damage the roads.

(16) No person shall construct or try to construct ridge, pit, channel, or pipeline of water on oracross any road and shall not break or damage the surface of any road in anyway.

(17) The permit issued under this By-Laws only a permit to use Urban Council’s roads and thatshall not be considered as a permit to transport any goods.

(18) No vehicle, tare of which does not exceed five tons, shall run on concreted roads or roadspaved with sliced stones.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201670A

(19) For the purpose of maintaining or repairing or renovating any road that belongs to theUrban Council ,the Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to issue orders to

(i). Close down for vehicular traffic for any period of time, the whole length of the roador a part there of or any lane of the road in any direction.

(ii). Stock any building materials on any section of the road

(iii). Entering into any plot of land by the side of the relevant road to store some buildingmaterial on it. (necessary notification to land owner for the above action his consentshall be obtain as possible )

(iv). Allow passage for vehicles through that land without causing any damage to properlyon that land (necessary notification to land owner for the above action his consentshall be obtain as possible )

(20) It shall be lawful to Urban Council as per section 95 of Urban Councils Ordinance torecover fees for permit determined by Urban Council from time to time to transport goods specified inthe By-Laws section No. 4

(21) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(22) The permit issued as per this By-Laws is valid for the day unless it is canceled earlierfurther it is also valid for the number of time specified in the permit.

(23) Any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the UrbanChairman or Autho-rized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.

(24) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence

(25) When action has been taken by any person in violation of provisions in the By-Laws sec-tion 07 to stock any building material on any road or part there of possessed by Urban Council it shall belawful for the Chairman orAuthorized Officer or an Authorized Officer to take action to remove thosematerials from the spot or to take possession of those materials. The person or Urban Council that tookaction to remove the material out of the road shall not be subjected to responsibility in regarding to anyshortfall, loss or damage caused to the person who stocked the relevant material on road, due to theactions taken by the Chairmanor Authorized Officer in the above manner. Furthermore, the ChairmanorAuthorized Officer shall not be subjected to pay any amount of compensation in respect of material soremoved

(26) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

Function of theUrban Council

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws (24-25)

Fines andpenalties

71AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(27) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires-

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Road” means any road ,highway, lane ,avenue,street,pair of steps,stepping lock or pedestrianbridge owned by Urban Council and it shall also include any directional sign ,demarcationstone, demarcation post, lamp post, bridge, any type of culvert,water crossing, parapet wall,arch, bund, drain,sluice,supportive bund, hand rail,chain,fence,sign board, road sign or pave-ment by side of the road fixed or erected in relation to any road, highway , lane ,street,avenue,pair of steps possessed by the Urban Council.

“Vehicle” means any motor vehicle in conformity with the definition given in the motor trafficact in respect of any motor vehicle and bullock cart, bicycle, hand cart with wheel or anyother vehicle that run by engine or any other way not coming under motor traffic Act .

“Causing damage,” means destroying, removing, disfiguring, toppling, unfastening, disposing orcausing damage some other way. Pasting a poster paint, tar or any other glue altering lettersof a name -board, including erasing, scraping or unfastening, excluding any such of activitiescaused and in connection with effecting repairs to the road by the Urban Council or Chair-man, Authorized Officer or the Authorized Officer.

Interpretation anddefinition

PART III - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, CONTROL ANDMONITOR OF LAUNDRIES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,monitor and control of laundries within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section157 (9)(w) and (15) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any laundries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of UrbanCouncil, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.

(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed status

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-5)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201672A

(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or approved stonesand plastered and painted in both sides.

(iii). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5 metre from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter

(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3.0 metresfrom floor level.

(v). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi). Separate rooms shall be provided for storage of soiled linen and clean linenrespectively.

(vii). Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of employees separately for males andfemales, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.

(viii). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed after washing cloth at thepremises to the said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council.Otherwise, action shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or wastewater shall be treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall becovered without mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metre awayfrom the constructed well

(ix). At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(x). It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at thelicensed laundry, to undergo a medical test at least once a year

(6) No person shall run a laundry within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he orshe has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer

(7)i. Every licensed laundry shall not be used for household activities at any time.

ii. Every licensed laundry shall not be used to keep any animal or allowed to be used forsuch purposes

iii. Every licensed laundry shall not be used to keep soiled and washed clothes mixed orallowed to be used in that manner

iv. No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item forwashing clothes.

v. Facilities shall be made to dispose waste of charcoal or any other kind of coal in aseparate bin after extinguishing with water. Further coconut shell or any other thingsshall not be burned at the license premises for the preparation of charcoal

Tasks not to becarried out(6 – 8)

73AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

vi. No permit holder shall wash at any place except place allowed or reserved by theUrban Council

vii. It is the responsibility of licensee to ensure that every laundryman shall always beforeleaving the laundry for the day extinguish or cause to be extinguished every fire orlight used by him, and no light or fire which is dangerous to the safety of any buildingor the clothes therein shall be at any time kindled or left alight

(8)(i). Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorizedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii). No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(9) In the event of the premises where any laundry is maintained under a licence issued under theBy-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officershall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(10) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance to run any laundry, theSecretaryhas the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated

(11) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(12) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(13) (i). The Chairman or Authorized Officer or has the powers to inspect the standards ofthese By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.

(ii). It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under theprovisions of these By-Laws, to the UrbanChairman or Authorized Officer forinspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.

(14) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 9, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orUrbanAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extensionshall not be exceeded 14 days.

(15) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 14 in these By-Laws failsto act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(16) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(17) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

Function of theUrban Council

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (13-15)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201674A

(18) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(19) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to makebusiness or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws ofthe hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-chargeor Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Laundry” means any type of building or any plot of land or place or premises used by any personpursuing an enterprise as a cleaner of clothes for the purpose of washing clothes, dryingclothes, dry cleaning clothes or for ironing clothes. It shall also include any building used tostore such clothes and any well, tank or other source of water used for the purposes of theenterprise by such a person.

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

SCHEDULE -01

Application for obtaining laundry licence 20….. within the area of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Business centre:-

2. Place of the Business centre:-

i. Ward No.:

ii. Assessment No.:

iii. Name of the Road/Street:

iv. GN Division No. & Name:

75AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

3. Name of the Applicant:-

i. Full Name:-

ii. Permanent Address:-

iii. GN Division No. & Name:-

iv. NIC No.:

v. Telephone No.:

vi. e-mail Address

4.

i. Date of Beginning

ii.Type of business(Washing Cloths, ironing / washing with ironing ,dry cleaning )

iii. Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:

iv. Previous Business:-

5.

i. Whether washing place is attached with the business centre or it is at any other place?

ii. Whether required drainage system has been made accordance with the By-Laws, ifwashing place is attached with

iii. Whether approval has been obtained to the separate washing place if so.

6. If it is rented building,

i. Name of the Owner:

ii. Address:-

7. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201676A

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………DatePublic Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

77AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….………………………………………… DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateAccountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….………………………………………… DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201678A

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-12)

CHAPTER 4

PART I -STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE,REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE ANDCONTROL THE ADVERTISEMENT WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as standard By-Laws relating to formulate,regularize,control and supervise advertisement displaying within the Urban Council limits

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensureprotection, comfort and convenience of the people residing within the limits of the Urban Council

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157 (6)(g) and (7)(f),(h) and 9 (n) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance

(4)(i). Anybody who expects to obtain a licence to display any advertisement within the limitsof Urban Council shall forward an application substantially prepared in accordancewith the specimen given in Schedule-01 to the Chairman or Authorized Officer atleast four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to bedisplayed

(ii). The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officerof Urban Council, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws are duly fulfilled.

(5)(i). Every application forwarded to obtain a licence shall contain a specimen of theadvertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 millimetres by 297millimetres and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisementis expected to be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297mm. Moreover, the exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have beenindicated therein.

(ii). When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a placeowned by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution written evidenceensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement at the particularplace shall have been submitted

(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the licence issued inrespect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each advertisementor advertisements while such display is done.

(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all theother goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the applicationforwarded to obtain a licence under these By-laws in this part.

(8)(i). The charges of advertisement may be exempted and licence in that behalf shall beobtained from the Chairman or Authorized Officer for an advertisement relating toany entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose of charity, anadvertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon which suchadvertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or ProvincialCouncil or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious , political orpublic meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business. Providedthat in any advertisement and sign is illuminated advertisement and sky sign permitsshall be obtained by paying fees as specified in these By-Laws.

79AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii). When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayedtogether with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when anadvertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any household,such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of theseBy-laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of the administrationof the premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who shall obtainthe licence in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.

(iii). The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any business premiseor any factory within the area of authority of the Urban Council, to a single noticedepicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise being maintained at thesaid place of business or the nature of the products being produced at the factory, fora domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase “on lease”or “for sale” or “available for rent” displayed on any property intended to be given inlease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditions specified in these By-Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at any time when more thanone such advertisement is displayed the provisions of these By-Laws shall apply inrespect of all such additional advertisements.

(9) The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall

(i). maintain such hoarding in a proper condition of repair and security, and

(ii). exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legiblecharacters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.

(10) Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the persons whouse the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage is causedto the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the damages to thatperson or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized Officer of the Councilshall be exempted of payment of such damages.

(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by theEngineer.

(12) (i). The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harmcaused or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thingused in this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due tothe menacing or connotation implied in the said advertisement.

(ii). The Council shall not be responsible in any way for removing, damaging or disfiguringof an advertisement obtained under the licence for exhibiting.

(13) (i). Unless any person has a valid licence issued on the application prepared according tothe specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by the ChairmanorAuthorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement inany form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place in the area of authorityof the Council.

(ii). Even after obtaining a valid licence for display of advertisements nobody shall displayor let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specificallystated in the relevant licence, to be seen when worked at from any public place

Tasks not to becarried out(13 – 20)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201680A

(14) The period of validity of the licence already issued to any other licensee in respect of theplace for which the licence is currently requested shall have been completed further there shall be suffi-cient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an obstacle to issue a li-cence to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the viewing of the advertisementbeing displayed under a licence previously issued and still in force.

(15) (i). The advertisement for which a display licence is sought shall not contain any scenesor words which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture orharming any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.

(ii). It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law ofthe country.

(16) Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accidentto a person walking hear the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover, fixingof electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving a vehicle orcause disturbances to his view shall not be done.

(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any place ofpublic worship or park or any bridge or street or electrical post or any tree or branch close to them orany public building connected with them.

(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner as to project over or across any pavementcarriageway of any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed or attached to an over-head bridge constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erected ina manner approved by the engineer.

(19) No person shall cause

(i). any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form other thanthat approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(ii). in addition to the approval given by the Urban Council, any vehicle bearing anyilluminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent of police, shall bedriven on any street or road

(20) Any licence issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered orconstructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression

(21) (i). The Urban Council shall determine to which areas belong to the Urban Council areallowed to display advertisements within the area of authority of the Urban Council

(ii). When conditions necessary for the issue of a licence under the By-laws in this part inrespect of any application submitted have been fulfilled the Chairmanor AuthorizedOfficer shall inform the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of the ChairmanorAuthorized Officer to issue the licence to the applicant after paying the fees for thelicence in the manner set out in section 25(i) and fees for the security deposit set outin section 22(i) of By-Law, after receipt of the above notice.

(iii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notification inthe Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement could bedisplayed or exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of itspublication, or from whatsoever date specified therein

Functions of theUrban Council( 21 – 24)

81AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv). The Urban Council shall have power to construct or maintain an advertisement boardUnder these By-Laws as determined by Urban Council in any land belongs to anyperson and given to the Urban Council on agreement or in any land belongs to theUrban Council.

(v). The Urban Council shall have the power to recover the fees already fixed by theUrban Council from the licensee to display any advertisement on the board constructedby the Urban Council under above sub section (ii)

(vi). Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisementlicence is duty of Chairman or Authorized Officer as specified in above paragraph (i)in these By–Law No. 25

(22) (i). when a decision has been made to issue a licence in respect of any application forwardedfor the purpose of displaying an advertisement the Chairman or Authorized Officershall not issue the licence for the said application until the applicant has depositedsecurity money in the Urban Council at the rates to be determined by it from time totime.

(ii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazetteabout the decision taken by the Urban Council in respect of the rate of the securitydeposit to be deposited in the Urban Council prior to issuing a licence to display anyadvertisement.

(23) (i). After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-Law No7, the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already deposited at theUrban Council before the issuing of the relevant licence on a written request made tothe Chairman or Authorized Officer

(ii). On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be theduty of Chairman or Authorized Officer to ensure,

(a) the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-law No. 7;

(b) and that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Urban Council nodamage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said advertisement or due toany other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before releasing the said depositmoney to the said licensee.

(iii). Unless the Chairman or Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the mannerset out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the By-lawNo. 7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Urban Council, the saiddeposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licensee hasavoided acting in the manner stated in By-law No. 7 or when any damage has beencaused to the hoarding of the Urban Council, suitable action shall be taken to deductfrom the deposit money expenditure that the Urban Council would have to bear toeffect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplish both, and only thebalance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.

(iv). When the money leviable by the Urban Council in taking action in the manner stated inparagraph (iii) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee shall pay theextra money payable to the Urban Council.

(v). However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request made bythe licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days to thelicensee for what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201682A

(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a licence issued bythe Urban Council and to take into the possession of the Urban Council or remove in a manner decided bythe Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(25) (i). Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated todisplay any advertisement, further

(a) Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Urban Council under para 21(vi)to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the place belonging tothe Urban Council under these By-Laws. or

(b) Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Urban Council fromtime to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed where land isbelonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .

(ii). Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law No. 22

(iii). Person who has applied for a temporary licence to display any advertisement shall paylicence fee according to the decision made by the Council from time to time.

(iv). when it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after theexpiry of the period of validity of the licence currently issued for the displayof anyadvertisement a new licence shall have been obtained on displaying the notice forsuch succeeding year.

(v). However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Urban Council ascharges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of licence to beissued for the display of advertisements, the same licence fees determined earliershall be recovered for the new licence to be issued for the display of the saidadvertisement.

(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(27) (i). validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31stDecember of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity iscancelled earlier

(ii). Temporary licence shall be valid for days for which licence has been issued unless itsvalidity is cancelled earlier

(28) (i). When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing ofany advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or riskto anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officeror theAuthorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an order tobring it back to proper conditions within two weeks.

(ii). It shall be lawful to cancel the issued licence for such advertisement and remove theadvertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer, whenanybody in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting in the mannerprovided by the provisions of the notification.

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers

83AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iii). when any licence has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) the securitydeposit, deposited at the Urban Council in respect of displaying that advertisementshall acqure to the funds of the Urban Council and nobody else shall have the right toclaim the deposit money.

(iv). It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized officer to issuetemporary licence for less than fourteen days as required. However all conditions areapplicable to issue temporary licence.

(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by thisofficer

(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence.

(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or theAuthorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any licence issued having invited the attention inrespect of such violations.

(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as UrbanChairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means period from the time of sunshining until the time of sun setting.

“Engineer” meansEngineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by the Chair-man to carry out particular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Lawsof the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws (30-31)

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201684A

“Superintendent of police” means, an officer in police station given authority for the specifiedpurpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.

“Cut-out” means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of wood or some othermaterial ;

“Display board” means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging anadvertisementdisplayed for the information and attention of the public ;

“Advertisement” means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model ornotice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustra-tions used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or anyvehicle or a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of thepublic and put in place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;

URBAN COUNCIL

Application for the Advertisement

1. Full Name :-

2. Address:-

3. N.I.C.No.:-

4. Mobile No.:-

5. E-Mail Address:-

6. Advertisement model annexed:-

7. Location map annexed:-

8. Type of Advertisement:- One side/ Double sides/ Lighted

9. Duration:- From: To:

10. Size of Advertisement:- Length: Width: Height:

I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be converted tomunicipal property without any notice.

…………………. ……………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

85AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer

Chief Revenue Inspector.

Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable

…………………….…………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

Secretary

Fitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended

……………………………………………………………DateChief Revenue Inspector

Secretary,

Size of Advertisement Length ................ Wide ................... Area ( square meter ) ................

DetailPrivateRDD RoadRDA RoadMC LandMC RoadLand

Agreement is madeYes/No

Land Rent(Rs200*sq)

Advertisement Fees(Rs100*sq)

Total Fees

VAT

NBT

Total Amount

…………………….………………………………………DateManagement Assistant

Above advertisement is approved / not approved

…………………………………………………DateSecretary

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201686A

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

………………………………..

Sectional Head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Accountant

Signed

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.

………………………………………………………..

DateField officer/ Technical officer (Planning section)

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

Part II -Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize , supervise ,control and admin-istrate of the parking of vehicles within the limit of the Urban Council

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the standard By-laws relating to control, regularize,supervise and administer parking of vehicle within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting of passengers preventingaccidents and controlling traffic jam by maintaining vehicle parks in suitable places within thelimit of Urban Council area.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157(7)(c) and (14 A) read with sub section 153(1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Any driver of a vehicle being driven along any street or road located within or lying along thearea of authority of the Urban Council shall obey the Provisions depicted in a road sign or signs fixedunder the Provisions in paragraph (ii) of By-Laws No.23.

87AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(5) Action shall be taken to display easily readable notices in the three languages at the entry andthe exit for the convenience of the vehicles arriving at the vehicle park. Moreover, arrows with white lines20 centimeters wide shall be marked so as to enable the drivers to easily recognize the directions theyshall follow while entering into the vehicle park and leaving it.

(6) The floor of every vehicle park shall be tarred or laid with concrete. Separate lavatories shallhave been made available for the males and females using the vehicle park. At the same time sufficientdrains shall have been constructed for the free flow of water accumulated at the site.

(7) When accommodation is made to park vehicles at any vehicle park, sufficient traffic lanesshall be made available for the convenience of vehicles entering and leaving the premises

(8) When any vehicle is being driven or being parked within the vehicle park sufficient spaceshall be made available in it to park each vehicle so as not to cause any obstruction to those already parkedwithin. Moreover, a white line of 10 centimetres wide shall be marked to indicate the space allocated toeach vehicle in the park.

(9)(i).

(a) Any employee of the Urban Council; or

(b) Any successful bidder selected by the Urban Council after calling for tenders ora person named by the particular bidder, hereinafter referred to as the “VehiclePark Warden” shall be employed by the Urban Council to collect charges madeon vehicles parked in the vehicle park.

(ii). However, while the fees charged for parking vehicles in any vehicle park shall notexceed the fees decided by the Urban Council in the manner stated in these By-Laws,the fees charged for parking each vehicle shall be noted down in a receipt substantiallyprepared according to the first schedule in this part and issued to the driver.

(10) (i). It shall be the duty of the Vehicle Park Warden to issue an Admission Card indicatingpermission to enter and prepared substantially in accordance with the second schedulein this part to the driver of the vehicle at the entrance to the Park when a vehicle of anytype allowed to be parked under By law No. 26(ii) enters the vehicle park.

(ii). Before leaving the vehicle park, it shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle parkedin the vehicle park to -

(a) return the card mentioned in paragraph (i) to the vehicle park warden,

(b) pay to the vehicle park warden fees for suitable parking place decided upon by theCouncil in the manner set out in By-Law No. 28

(c) Obtain a suitable receipt mentioned in paragraph (b) of By-Laws No. 9(ii).

(11) It shall be the duty of the owner or the driver of any vehicle parked within any vehicle parkto submit for inspection the admission card issued in respect of the vehicle when the Chairman or anyAuthorized Officer or the Vehicle Park Warden or any Police Officer requests it for inspection.

(12) Accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws to park the following vehicles ina ve-hicle park within limits of UrbanCouncil areaany fees shall not be paid. However provision of these By-Laws shall apply to any vehicle belonging to the below said vehicles.

(a) government vehicles,

(b) vehicles of the Provincial Council,

(c) Vehicles of a local authority established within the Province,

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201688A

(d) Any vehicle parked on maintain and repairs for the services, belonging to Watersupply, Telecommunication and Electricity Board. Further By-Law No 28 shallbe applicable to any vehicle belongs to a government corporation or a statuaryboard.

(13) (i). It shall be lawful to the Chairman or Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer orthe Vehicle Park Warden to take action to remove any vehicle parked in the vehiclepark without a valid admission card. Assistance of the police may be seeked for thisaction.

(ii). When so removed, the owner of the vehicle or the driver shall not be entitled to anycompensation to be claimed from the council or the officer who removed that vehicle,for any damage caused to such vehicle. The owner or driver of the vehicle shall havetopay the Urban Council, the expenses of drawing the vehicle safe keeping expenses andthe other expenses assessed by the Chairman, Authorized Officer or vehicle parkedwarden, for release of such vehicles

(iii). Every permit issued under these By-Laws shall contain the distinctive number of themotor vehicle in respect of which it is issued and it shall be valid for the period statedin the permit.

(iv). Every person who obtains a permit under these By-Laws shall display such permit in aconspicuous place within the vehicle so that it may be visible from outside the vehicle

(14) A permit may be obtained by anyone on an agreement monthly having paid such fee deter-mined by the council from time to time for special parking place introduced by the Urban council

(15) A parking place may be reserved for any institution on an agreement having paid such feedetermined by the Urban Council from time to time.

(16) No person shall run any private parking place without licence obtained from Urbancouncil

(17) Notwithstanding anything stated in the By-Law No 4 the limitations prescribed by any roadsign fixed on the decision of the Urban Council under the provisions of By-Law No 23 shall not apply inrespect of

(i). fire fighting vehicle or any other vehicle of the Urban Council used for the purpose ofcontrol any fire or any disaster occurring at any building or close to a building in anysection of the street or road;

(ii). acting in accordance with an order issued appropriately by any Police Officer in orderto prevent any traffic jam occurring in any street or road or on any particular sectionof the street or road or in order to control any unexpected situation occurring in thearea of authority of the Urban Council, and it shall not be considered as a violation ofthe provisions in By-Law 4.

(18) (i). Any person shall not park or drive into a vehicle park or allow to be driven into thepark any vehicle or a vehicle which is not a motor vehicle, unless it is a vehicle of thetype decided by the Urban Council to be allowed into the Park for parking.

Tasks not to becarried out(16 – 22)

89AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii). When there is sufficient space at the entry gate for any vehicle arriving at the vehiclepark to tow away any vehicle parked inside it when it is found impossible to start, inorder to take it out of the park, the provisions in paragraph (i) shall not apply for theother vehicles. However, such towing shall not be made in a manner causing any obstacleor harm to other vehicles parked in the vehicle park.

(19) Any person shall not, -

(i). wash a vehicle or cause a vehicle to be washed;

(ii). make any repairs other than an essential repair in order to start the vehicle or changinga tyre for the purpose of taking the vehicle out of the vehicle park;

(iii). Make any noise which is considered unnecessary or oppressive when any repairmentioned in paragraph (ii) are carried out.

(iv). park the vehicle in any place in the vehicle park other than where it was originallyparked without permission from the Vehicle Park Warden;

(v). park vehicles so as to block the lanes of the vehicle park or the gates at the entry andthe exit;

(vi). blow the alarm instruments fixed in the vehicle except for the purpose of preventingan accident or ensuring the safety of the occupants in the vehicle;

(vii). blow the horn of any vehicle parked or entering or leaving the vehicle park,

(viii). Consume liquor or spit after chewing betel leaves or use indecent language or createcommotion or engage in immoral activities, in any vehicle park.

(20) The responsibility in regard to the damage of any vehicle parked in any vehicle park shall beliable with the person who park it in the vehicle park. The Urban Council, theChairman, AuthorizedOfficer or the Vehicle Park Warden shall not be subjected to responsibility in regard to any loss or harmcaused within the vehicle park.

(21) No vehicle shall on any occasion be driven in the opposite direction to that which is markedin the lane within any vehicle park in the manner set out in By-Law No. 5.

(22) No person shall harm or deface any construction made or instrument found in any vehiclepark.

(23) (i). The Urban Council shall have the power to -

(a) ban the parking of vehicles

(b) limit the parking of vehicles;

(c) allow parking on one side only;

(d) ban or limit the loading or unloading of goods;

(e) ban loading and unloading of passengers;

(f) name bus stops;

(g) name one way streets and roads and to determine the direction of traffic

(h) Naming of public parking place for parking of vehicle. on any section of anystreet or road in the area of authority of the Urban Council;

Function of theUrban Council (23- 27 )

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201690A

(ii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take action to fix roadsigns on limitations at relevant places after placing any limitations under paragraph(i). While these road signs on the limitations shall be in accordance with provisionspublished in the Gazette Extra-ordinary No. 448/18 dated 13th March 1987, havingbeen made by the Minister under Section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act read withsection 164 of the said Act, they are subject to amendments made from time to time.

(24) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take steps to remove garbagecollected within the premises of every vehicle park every day and to clean the lavatories usingdisinfectant daily.

(25) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take action to see that everyVehicle Park Warden on duty is dressed in a suit to be decided by the Urban Council and which wouldallow easy identification of the Park Warden.

(26) (i). The Urban Council shall have the power to allocate, -

(a) any plot of land owned by the Council ;or

(b) Any plot of land owned by any other Authority, (according to an agreement enteredinto with such Authority) for the purpose of parking motor vehicles, hereinafterreferred to as “the vehicle park”, within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(ii). The Urban Council shall decide from time to time the type of vehicles that shall beparked in any vehicle park and the maximum

(iii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to display at the entranceprominently in the three languages the amount of money decided upon by the Councilas charges for parking of any type of vehicle in any vehicle park.

(27) At least two gates shall be made available in every vehicle park, one as a point of entry andthe other as an exit. However, in the event of allocating a separate area in the park for the sole purpose ofmoving vehicles and allowing double lanes for vehicular traffic, with sufficient space at the gate it shallbe in order to have only one gate for entry as well as exit.

(28) (i). A fee decided by the Urban Council from the time to time, shall be recovered forparking any vehicle at parking place belongs to the Urban Council

(ii). Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run privateparking of vehicle.

(iii). A fee decided by the Urban Council from time to time shall be recovered for parkingof vehicle in private parking place. Further, 25 percentage of recoveries for parking ofvehicle decided by Urban Council from time to time, shall be paid to the Urban Council.A separate agreement also shall be made with the private parking holders. The receiptsbooks approved by the Urban Council only shall be used for their collections by theprivate parking holders.

(iv). If the vehicles are parked during the night in the parking places belonging to UrbanCouncil, a fee specified by the council from time to time shall be paid in that behalf.

(v). Further it shall be lawful to the Urban Council to assign the recovery of fees forpublic parking place belongs to Urban Council on annual lease to the lessee.

(vi). However details of all fees shall be published in the Government Gazette of Sri Lanka.

Charges and fees

91AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(29) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(30) (i). These By-Laws shall be in operation on days and times determined by the councilfrom time to time. If not so, the operation time shall be from 6.00 a.m to 9 p.m.

(ii). The validity of every private licence issued under the provision of these By-Lawsshall expire on 31st December of each year for which the license has been issued,unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(31) The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer or anAuthorized Officer under the provisions of these By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when aparking place in open for parking.

(32) It shall be duty to co-operate the permit holder who have received permit under theprovisions, to the Urban Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer for inspection, andshall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.

(33) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(34) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(35) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liableto the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further incase of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has thejurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(36) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Permit holder” means any person whosoever obtained a permit issued by the Chairman orAuthorized Officer or authorized office under the provision of these by law for parking ofvehicle at the parking place.

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (31 – 32)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201692A

“Road” means a road, highway, lane, avenue, street, pair of steps, stepping log or bridge and itshall also include any directional sign, boundary stone, boundary post, lamp post, bridge, anytype of arch, water crossing, parapet wall, arch, bund, drain, sluice gate, supportive bund, handrail, chain, fence, signboard, highway name board or pavement by the side of the road fixed orattached to a thoroughfare, road, highway, lane, street, by-lane, steps owned by the Council.

“vehicle” shall be interpreted in the same way as it is given in the Motor Traffic Ordinance and itincludes a cart, bicycle or any mechanism with wheels and operated mechanically or in anyother way.

Schedule 1

Paragraph (ii) of By-Law No. 09

…………………………. Urban Council

……………………….. Vehicle Park

Fees for parking vehicle

Receipt No. ………..

Vehicle No.

Date

Time of Arrival ………………….. a.m/ p.m

Time of Departure ………………….. a.m/ p.m

Charged fees (Rs)

Schedule 2

Paragraph (i) of By-Law No. 10

Front Page of the card

…………………………. Municipal Council

……………………….. Vehicle Park

Back page of card

This card should not be transferred

This card should not be transferred

93AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-10)

PART III — STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZE,FORMULATE,CONTROL ANDMONITOR OF CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF SWIMMING POOL WITHIN THE AREA OFAUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to regularize, formulate, control andmonitor of construction and maintenance of swimming pools within the area of authority of the Urbancouncil.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of ensuring maintenance of security andpublic health in proper standard of the swimming pool within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section 157(9) (w)and (15) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) If only the following conditions in the By-Laws of this part are fulfilled the AuthorizedOfficer shall issue a licence to any swimming pool.

(i). Sufficient provisions shall have been made to supply water made available forpre-baths and the swimming pool according to the standards prescribed by the MedicalOfficer of Health ;

(ii). Necessary arrangements shall have been put in place to use sufficient disinfectantsfor supplies of water mentioned in paragraph (i) ;

(iii). Shower-roses shall be provided for a pre-bath before swimming in the pool ;

(iv). with a view to purifying and disinfecting the entire water capacity in the said swimmingpool twice within a period of twenty four hours, a set of strainers with pumps circulatingwater shall have been fixed ;with a view to purifying and disinfecting, a set of strainerswith pumps circulating water shall have been fixed ;

(v). The depth of the swimming pool shall be clearly marked on the platform of theswimming pool ;

(vi). A hand-rails and a ladders made of stainless steel shall have been fixed to enter intothe swimming pool and get out of it, at a distance of at least 8 meters all around theSwimming Pool ;

(vii). The swimming pool shall be fixed with distinctive colored tiles so that the bottom aswell as the walls of the pool are clearly visible after it has been filled with water

(viii). If children under twelve years are allowed to swim in the pool, a separate section witha depth of not more than one meters shall have been constructed for such purposes.

(ix). if towers have been constructed to facilitate diving into the swimming pool they shallhave been constructed in concrete and a strong ladder built with iron or steel shallhave been fixed ;

(x). A sufficient programme of life saving and first-aid shall have been put in place ;

(xi). Separate dressing rooms and lavatories shall be made available to males and femalesusing the swimming pool ;

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201694A

(xii). The floors of dressing rooms and bathroom shall be well drained and maintained in aclean conditions and shall be treated daily with a suitable disinfectant.

(xiii). if swimming is allowed after 6.30 p.m., sufficient electric light shall be made availableto the interior as well as the exterior of the pool site ;

(xiv). Visible foreign material that may float on the surface of swimming pool water shall beremoved daily.

(xv). The enclosure of the area of every swimming pool shall be kept in good repair andshall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times

(xvi). A drainage system to allow free flow of water used in lavatories and bathing spotsshall be made available ;

(xvii). The waste materials deposited in the bottom shall be disposed of at least once daily ;

(xviii). The entire water capacity of the swimming pool shall be purified and disinfected atleast twice a day ;

(xix). Every swimming pool that is in use shall be equipped with test kits or testing equipmentfor measuring :

(a) residual disinfectant

(b) the pH (hydrogen iron concentration)

(c) the total alkanity and ; where cyanotic acid or one of the chlorinated isocyanuratesis used.

(d) concentration of cyanuric acid in the swimming poor water.

(6)(i). While a programme prescribed by the Urban Council Medical Officer of Health shallhave been put in place for disinfecting the water filled in the swimming pool instrumentsrecommended by him shall also be made available.

(ii). The floor and the walls of the lavatories and the places where shower roses have beenprovided for pre-baths shall be tiled.

(7)(i). All swimming pools when in use shall be continuously disinfected by a chemical and/or process which meets all of the following requirements :

(a) That the disinfectant or disinfecting process is a standard one for potable water.

(b) That it imparts a residual effect which may be easily and accurately measured bya field test procedure.

(c) That it is compatible for use with other chemicals normally used in the treatmentof swimming pool water.

(d) That it does not impart toxic properties to the water beyond that of acceptablechlorinating, when used accorder to directions.

95AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii). If the active agent of the disinfectant is chlorine, the un estabilished free availablechlorine, as measured by a standard method shall be at least of the followingconcentration, depending on the PH of the swimming pool water

Ph.minimum free e available residual chlorine

mg/liter ( not stabilized with cyanuric acid)

7.50.40

7.6 0.50

7.7 0.60

7.80.70

7.9 0.80

8.01.00

(iii). If cyanotic acid is used to stabilize the free available residual chlorine, or if one of thechlorinated is cyanate compounds is used as the disinfecting chronical, theconcentration of cyanuric acid in the water should be at least 30 mg/liter but shall notexceed 100 mg/liter and the free available residual chlorine, as measured by a standardmethod, shall at least of the following concentration, depending on the PH of theswimming pool water

Ph.Minimum free available re sidual chlorinemg/liter (cyanuric acid is at least equal to30 mg/ Liter but not Sreater than 100 mg/ / liter)

7.5 1.00

7.6 1.25

7.7 1.50

7.8 1.75

7.9 2.00

8.0 2.50

(iv). if the disinfections of the swimming pool water is accomplished by a chemical orprocess other than one of the Chlorine compounds, the disinfecting action shall be atleast the equivalent of that provided by 0.4 mg/liter of unestablished free availablechlorine at a PH of 7.5

(v). Samples collected for microbiological examination shall be taken while the pool is inuse and shall be collected, the residual disinfectant deactivated. and be examined by astandard method for the microbiological examination of

(vi). The swimming pool water shall not contain-

(a) More than 200 colonies per mill. As determined by the standard agar plate count.

(b) Coliform organizes and E. Cori type I shall be absent in 100 ml.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201696A

(vii). The water in all swimming pools when in use shall have the following chemical andphysical characteristics :

(a)shall be alkaline as indicated by a pH of not less than 7 mg/liter and more than 8.0

(b) Shall have a total alkalinity of at least 50 mg/liter but not greater than 150 mg/liter as measured by the methyl orange test.

(c) Shall have sufficient clarity so that a black and white disc 15 centimeters (6 inches)in diameter is visible clearly at the deepest point of the swimming pool whenviewed from the side of the swimming pool.

(8)(i). Proper operating records shall be kept for every swimming pool when in use, andshall be available for inspection by an officer of the council generally or speciallyauthorized thereto by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(ii). Operating records shall include daily figures at least the following item :—

(a) Time of opening for use and number of hours in use

(b) total bather load

(c) Peak bather load.

(d) volume of makeup water,

(e) operating periods f circulating pumps and filters with corresponding readings ofthe rate of flow meter

(f) amounts of chemicals used

(g) disinfectant residual readings

(h) PH readings.

(i) Readings of other chemical tests.

(j) Clarity of the swimming pool at the deepest point.

(k) Maintenance servicing of equipment.

(9) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo 10 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a month or more than if neces-sary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or removed.

(10) (i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclables, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows :—

(a) Bio-degradable wastes;

(b) Glass;

(c) Paper or paper related materials;

(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f) Residues of Raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g) Hazardous waste

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

97AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Councils the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(11) (i). No person shall establish , manage , operate, run a swimming pool withoutobtain anannual licence from the Chairman or Authorized Officer complying with conditionand standards provided for issues of such licence.

(ii). However specified Paragraph 1, a concession period of three months, after effectingdate of these By-Laws shall be given to obtain a licence to maintain any swimmingpool. After completion of that period no person shall maintain a swimming pool withoutobtaining a licence.

(12) No customer who is coming swim shall use the swimming pool any way without usingswimming dresses and pre bathe

(13) In the event of the premises where a swimming pool is established under a license issuedunder these By-Laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set outin these By-Law No. 4 or contravenes the provisions of any provision of the By-laws set out in this partthe Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish neces-sary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(14) Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Laws No 13 shall act in the mannerprescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons havebeen forwarded in writing the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to extend the datespecified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than fourteen days.

(15) When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No 14 fails to act in accor-dance with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended itshall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer to cancel the licensee issued to that premises.

(16) (i). Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to runswimming pool

(ii). The fees shall be exempted for the swimming pool run by the Government of Srilankaor Provincial Council

(17) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(18) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(19) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the provisions,to the Urban Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer for inspection, and shall not makeobstacle to stop such inspection

Tasks not to becarried out(11 – 12)

Functions of theUrban Council (13 - 15 )

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers ( 19 – 21)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201698A

(20) Samples of water should be collected by periodically from every swimming pool when isused and examined for the microbiological quality of water. When such samples are collected the PH andresidual disinfectant concentration shall also be tested at same time.

(21) When the Medical Officer of Health has decided that any type of epidemic or infection hasgripped the area where the swimming pool is located or in its neighborhood, the Chairman shall have thepower to order the closure of the swimming pool.

(22) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(23) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawshall be an offence.

(24) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(25) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires “

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Urban Council Chairman by the provisions ofthe Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of these By-Lawsof the Ice factory and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” placef or which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business at the specified place.”Swimming pool” means any pool of water constructedfor swimming as an exercise or as a pastime or for practice by any outsider for fees or free ofcharge.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-Laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

99AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

SCHEDULE -01

URBAN COUNCIL

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….... for Conducting Swimming Pool

1. Name of the Swimming Pool:-………………………………………………………………

2. Place of the Swimming Pool:-

(i) Ward No.: …………………………..

(ii) Assessment No.:……………………………

(iii) Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………

(iv) GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….

3.i. Full Name of the Applicant ……………

ii. Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………

iii.GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-…………………………………………

iv.NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………

v.Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

vi.e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

4.i. Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..

ii. (a) Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Swimming Pool:-……………………

(b) Telephones Number of the Owner /Manager / Agent of Swimming Pool:- ……

5. If the land/ building is obtained on lease/rent.

a. Name of the Owner:…………………………………………………

b. Address:-…………………………………………………………………….

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:…………………………………..

Date:…………………………………………

7. Whether Swimming Pool is separately constructed for adults and children:-Yes/No

If so, it is separately constructed for adults and children

(i) Area of the Swimming Pool for adults- in square metre:……………………………….

(ii) Area of the Swimming Pool for children - in square metre:…………………………..

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016100A

8. Dressing Rooms:

(i) Number of Dressing Rooms for male:……………………………………………

(ii) Number of Dressing Rooms for female:…………………………………………

9. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the Swimming Pool ………………………

10. Toilets :

1. The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …

2. The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

11. Water:

(i) Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide water for SwimmingPool:………………………………………………………….

(ii) Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide drinking water tocustomers:……………………………………………

12. Method/ methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Swimming Pool /Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of Assessment Section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………Date Sectional Head

101AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of revenue department,

1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………DatePublic Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….………………………………………… DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Accountant

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016102A

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional Head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….………………………………………… DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

CHAPTER -5

PART 1 -STANDARD BY-LAWS RELATING TO CONDUCT THE ICE FACTORY TO REGULARIZE,MONITOR FORMULATE AND CONTROL ICE FACTORY WITHIN THE LIMIT OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, controland monitor Ice factory within the area of authority of Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of maintaining public health and environmentwithout any harmful to the public residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of theUrban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157(9)(q) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee

(5) The licence shall be issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer to the ice factory whenthe applicant has completed the conditions in this By-Law

(i). The licensed premises shall be in good condition and well ventilated

(ii). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-15)

103AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iii). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres fromfloor level.

(iv). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter.

(v). While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms fixed with machinery for iceproducts shall not be less than 3.0 meters the walls shall have been plastered withmortar and the insides applied with paints, in the event of there being built with bricks,cement blocks or approved blocks. Otherwise when the walls have been built in woodtogether with aluminum or any other metal surfaces of the planks shall have beenpainted on their surface ;

(vi). Timber used for the roof shall be applied with oil colours or paints ;

(vii). The floor space shall be finished off with cement or tiled ;

(viii). A quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board on thesuitability of the water used for the manufacture of ice for human consumption shallhave been obtained. This quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every sixmonths. In the event of the water being supplied by the National Water Supply andDrainage Board is used for the manufacture of ice it shall be presumed that thiscertificate has been obtained ;

(ix). In the event of water used in the manufacture of ice and activities connected therewithbeing kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water storedshall be put in place ;

(x). Action shall have been taken to dispose of waste produced in the licensed premises inthe manner set out in By-Law No. 12.

(xi). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated andreleased to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from theconstructed well.

(xii). Any lavatory, waste pit or open waste drain or suction pit constructed at the licensedpremises shall be located at a distance more than 15 metres from the room where iceis produced and the place where ice produced is issued to customers.

(xiii). General firefighting instruments and electrical fire fighting instruments have beenmade actively and sufficiently.

(6) Every space where paints need to be applied as set out in By-Law No. 5 shall be applied withpaints at least once a year.

(7) The place where ice produced and issued to the customers shall have been washed with waterat least once a day.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016104A

(8) Every licensee of an ice factory shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outsideof his premises, a board with his name and the words “Licensed Ice Factory” legible painted thereon inSinhala, Tamil and English

(9) The persons who are carrying ice factory products for sales shall have a registration cardwith signature of the owner of ice factory

(10) A copy of the trade licence issued to owner of ice factory shall be displayed at the con-scious placeof licence premises

(11) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are onduty at the ice factory.

(12) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law13 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put orremoved

(13) (i). Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories

(a) bio degradable waste ;

(b) glass ;

(c) paper or paper based materials ;

(d) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;

(e) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;

(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or byproducts or other parts produced in the production line ;

(g) dangerous waste ;and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put inseparate containers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(14) The instruments used shall be cleaned every day and maintained in proper maintainingcondition

(15) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

(16) Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer for the particu-lar function has been obtained no person shall maintain an ice factory within the Urban Council area.

(17) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who hasrecently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing anybody who is suffer-ing from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report, shall notbe engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in theplace, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed

Tasks not to becarried out( 16– 22)

105AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(18) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any duty at a licensed premise.

(19) Non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used to store. Chemicals used in themanufacture of ice. Further these materials shall not be kept outside the stores unless they are kept in theice manufacturing room for the manufacture of ice.

(20) (i). Rooms reserved for the manufacture of ice shall not be used for any other purpose

(ii). A separate room or a site shall have been made available to store fuel. Further fuelshall not be taken through the rooms storing ice and issuing ice to customers.

(21) No licensee of an ice factory shall keep any animal or bird at licensed premises.

(22) No licensee shall introduce into the ice factory materials and articles other than those usedin the manufacture of ice

(23) It shall be lawful for the Chairmanor Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, topurchase a sample of any kind of ice products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(24) In the event of the premises where any ice factory is conducted under a licence issuedunder the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the ChairmanorAuthorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplishnecessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(25) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban CouncilsOrdinance, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run Ice factory

(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(27) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31stDecember of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(28) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspectthe standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(29) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or Authorized Officeror any authorized officer.

(30) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 24 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, theperiod of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.

(31) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 30 in these By-Lawsfails to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

Functions of theUrban Council(23 – 24)

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedures ofinspection andpowers (28-31)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016106A

(32) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(33) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(34) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(35) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as UrbanChairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of these By-Lawsof the Ice factory and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” placefor which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Ice Factory” means a factory where water is caused to solidify mechanically on a commercialbasis for consumption.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-Laws

Fines and penalties

Interpretation anddefinition

SCHEDULE -1

URBAN COUNCIL

Application for Business tax / Licence 20…....for Conducting Ice Factory

1. Name of the Ice factory:-……………………………………………………………

2. Place of the Ice factory:-

(i). Ward No.: …………………………..

(ii). Assessment No.:……………………………

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….

107AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

3. Full Name of the Applicant ……………

(i). Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………

(ii). GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-……………………………………………..

(iii). NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………

(iv). Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

(v). e-mail Addressof the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

4.

(i). Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..

(ii).

(a) Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Ice factory:………………………

(b) Telephones Number of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Ice factory:-…………

5. If the land/building is obtained on lease/rent.

a. Name of the Owner:-………………………………………………………

b. Address:-………………………………………………………………………….

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:…………………………………..

Date:…………………………………………

7. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the Ice factory:……………………………………

8. Toilets :

(i). The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …

(ii). The number of toilets for female employees: … … … …

9. Method/methods and number of method/methods to get water

10. Method/methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … …

11. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … …

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Ice factory /Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016108A

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………DatePublic Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

109AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateAccountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016110A

PART II -STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE ANDCONTROL OF AERATED WATER MANUFACTORIES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THEURBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, super-vise and control the aerated water manufactory within the area of authority of the Urban Council

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for purpose protection of environment and public health forthe people residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section157 (9)(q) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any manufacturer of soft drinks by the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer of Urban Council, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.

(i). The aerated water manufactory shall be kept in clean and renewed condition

(ii). Walls of each room of the aerated water manufactory place shall not be less than3metres in height

(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any otherrooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metalsheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.

(iv). Each room of the aerated water manufactory place shall be ceiled in height not lessthan 3metres from floor level.

(v). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves shall be at least 1meter

(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii). A sufficient drainage system to drain off waste water flowing from roomsmanufacturing soft drinks from washing empty bottles and from bathrooms of theemployees shall be put in place ;

(ix). While at least one room shall be reserved for storing types of syrup, other chemicals,bottles used to can soft drinks or other kinds of packing materials, sufficientsafety measures shall be put in place to maintain the room devoid of rat and otherinsects ;

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-16)

111AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(x). A quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board on thesuitability of the water used for the manufacture of soft drinks for human consumptionshall have been obtained. Further this quality certificate shall be obtained at least oncein every six months. In the event of the water being supplied by the National WaterSupply and Drainage Board is used for the manufacture of soft drinks it shall bepresumed that this certificate has been obtained ;

(xi). In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft drinks and activities connectedtherewith being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution ofwater stored shall be put in place ;

(xii). Place used for the washing of empty bottles shall be located separate from the roomsmanufacturing soft drinks. Further only water issued with a quality certificate mentionedin paragraph (x) above shall be used for such activities ;

(xiii). Separate containers or tanks shall be kept to accommodate waste material generateddue to the activities of the soft drinks manufacture, in the manner set out in this by-Law No. 12.

(xiv). While the employees of the factory shall be allocated lavatories in the proportion ofat least one for each group of ten employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside formales and females. Moreover, such lavatories shall be located at a distances awayfrom the rooms manufacturing soft drinks to avoid direct contact in order to maintainhygiene.

(xv). Suction pit, fertilizer pit or ash pit shall be located more than 18 meters away from aroom where soft drinks are manufactured or from a place where water used for themanufacture of soft drinks is being stored in the event of such water being stored in anunderground water tank.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law No. 4 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The floor of every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks shall be washed at leastonce a day.

(8) Every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks and its environment, drains, furnitureand instruments shall be kept in proper maintaining condition.

(9) When cleaning bottles used to can soft drinks manufactured in a soft drink factory, aminimum of two tanks, viz,

(i). one tank for the removal of labels previously fixed in the bottles and for the initialcleaning, and

(ii). The other tank for the final cleaning of those bottles, shall be used and the final cleaningshall be effected utilizing flowing water.

(10) When any other kind or kinds of bottles other than those made of glass are utilized to cansoft drinks these bottles shall be used only once and it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that they areproduced from hygienically materials. In this matter a written certificate issued Medical Officer of Healthis considered sufficient.

(11) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are onduty at the soft drinks manufacturing factory.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016112A

(12) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo 12 in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or morethan once a day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when thegarbage is being put or removed.

(13) (i) If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows

a. Bio-degradable wastes;

b. Glass;

c. Paper or paper related materials;

d. Polythene, plastic or related materials;

e. Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

f. Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

g. Hazardous waste.

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii) Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(14) Every licensee of an aerated water manufactory shall keep affixed in a conspicuous posi-tion on the outside of his premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Aerated Water Manu-factory” legibly painted thereon Sinhala, Tamil and English.

(15) Every licensee of an aerated water manufactory shall cause a copy of the licence, to beframed and hung in a prominent place in the manufactory. He shall cause a list of the name and addressesof all the employees, (including vendors of aerated water,) to be kept in the manufactory and to be avail-able for inspection at all reasonable times by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or any person autho-rized by him.

(16) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

(17) No person shall run an aerated water manufactories within the authority of the UrbanCouncil area, unless he or she has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman orAuthorized Officer.

(18) Unless the date of expiry of the syrups and other chemicals used in the manufacture of softdrinks falls at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of softdrinks at any time.

(19) (i) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorizedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

Tasks not to becarried out(17 – 20)

113AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii) No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in well washed clean clothes ;

(20) While non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used to store syrup and other typesof chemicals used in the manufacture of soft drinks, these materials shall not be kept outside unless theyare kept in the soft drink manufacturing room for the manufacture of soft drinks.

(21) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, topurchase a sample of any kind of soft drinks manufactured at any manufactory, kept for sale or displayedfor sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.

(22) In the event of the premises where a soft drinks manufactory is maintained under a licenceissued under the By-Laws any licensee contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairmanor Autho-rized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish neces-sary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(23) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretaryhas the authorityto charge for annual licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run aerated water manu-factory.

(24) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council.

(25) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity has been cancelledearlier.

(26) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(27) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairmanor Authorized Officeror any authorized officer.

(28) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No 22, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall notbe exceeded 14 days.

(29) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 26 fails to act as stipu-lated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(30) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officerand proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(31) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

Functions of theUrban Council(21 – 22)

Charges andfees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense orpermit

procedure ofinspection andpowers(26 – 29)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016114A

(32) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2).

(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires.

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as UrbanChairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councilsfor Urbanity

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By laws ofthe hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-chargeor Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measures under theseprovisions.

“Aeratedwater” means types of drinks manufactured using one type or all types of fruits, es-sence and syrups, and canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall also include sodawater.

Fines andpenalties

Interpretationand definition

SCHEDULE -01

APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS TAX / LICENCE 20….. FOR CONDUCTING AERATED WATER MANUFACTORY WITHINTHE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF URBAN COUNCIL

1. Name of the Business centre:-

2. Place of the Business centre:-

(i). Ward No.:-

(ii). Assessment No.:-

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

115AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

3. Name of the Applicant:-

(i). Full Name:-

(ii). Permanent Address:-

(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

(iv). NIC No.:-

(v). Telephone No.:-

(vi). e-mail Address:-

4.

(i). Date of Beginning

(ii). Type of business:

(iii). Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:

(iv). Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

(i). Name of the Owner:

(ii). Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016116A

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(1). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(2). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(3). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

117AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateUrban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Authorized Officer

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Urban Council Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016118A

CHAPTER 6

PART I - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE, ADMINIS-TRATE AND CONTROL OF PUBLIC MARKETS WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBANCOUNCIL

(1) By-laws in this part may be cited as standard By-laws relating to the conduct, regularize,administrate and supervise the public markets within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of providing market facilities and selling andpurchasing of goods facilities for the residing within the limits of the Urban Council

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Council by the sub section 157(11) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 136-152 and 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance

(4)(i). It shall be the duty of the tenant of any shopping stall in the public market or anyperson who has obtained a ticket to use any trading platform to categorize all thewaste generated at the shopping stall or nearby or on the trading platform or nearbyunder the categories of, -

a) biodegradable waste;

b) glass;

c) paper or paper related matter;

d) polythene or plastics or materials related to polythene or plastics and regiform;

e) iron and other kinds of metal or pieces of iron and other metals;

f) dangerous waste; and to dump them into separate containers or receptacles ortanks constructed by the Urban Council to dump each kind of garbage.

(ii). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officerto take action to keep insuitable places of the public market small scale containers which facilitate disposalof garbage categorized under paragraph (i), for dumping garbage disposed of by thevisitors to the public market. Meanwhile action shall be taken to dump the contents ofthese containers at sufficient time intervals into containers or receptacles or tanksrelevant to garbage stated in paragraph (i).

(iii). No body shall dump garbage of any kind other than those categorized to be dumpedinto a particular container, receptacle or tank placed in the public market to collectgarbage;

(iv). Except when garbage is dumped or taken out of the container or receptacle or tankconstructed for the dumping of biodegradable garbage under the provisions of paragraph(i) of By-laws, under this section, the lid of that container or receptacle or tank shallbe tightly closed always.

(5) It shall be the duty of the person engaged in sales activities at every trading stall and tradingplatform selling or exhibiting for sale vegetables, fruits, meat, fish or other kinds of food or beverages tosuitably wash or scratch and clean or cause anyone else to wash or scratch and clean at the end of the day’sactivities every trading stall, table, bench, plank displaying goods and cupboard.

(6) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements to cleanby washing using disinfectants every lavatory and urinal within the premises of the public market at leastthrice a day and to clean by washing every drain constructed to allow free flow of water at least twice aday.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-32)

119AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(7) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements toremove at least once a day or on more occasions if necessary, the garbage accumulated in everycontainer, receptacle or tank constructed in the manner specified in the paragraph (xxiv) of By-lawsNo. 61and paragraph (i) of By-Law No 4. Moreover, action shall be taken to transport such garbage out ofthe premises in a vehicle having fully covered the part containing such garbage.

(8) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements toremove at least once a day the soil or sand or other matter accumulated at the place allocated for washingvegetables or fruits and to prevent obstacles to the free flow of water at that place.

(9) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements toexamine at least once a daywhether the functioning of the firefighting equipment fixed at the publicmarket is in order and to fix new equipment in place of those rendered non functional.

(10) (i). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to make arrangements toapply paints at least once a year on all the walls of the trading stalls except the innerwalls, the parts plastered with cement in every trading platform with parapet wallconstructions made with galvanized iron and other parts of the ceilings except theinner ceiling of the trading stalls in the public market;

(ii). It shall be the duty of the tenant of the trading stalls to apply paints at least once a yearon the inner walls of the trading stalls, the constructions made with galvanized ironand the inner ceiling of the trading stalls in the public market.

(11) The Urban Council shall determine from time to time the dates and time the public marketmaintained by the Urban Council shall be kept open. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer to make arrangements to publish a notification in all the three languages as to what the dates andtimes the public market is opened and to prominently display such a notification at the entrance to thepublic market, as determined by the Urban Council. It is not determined by the Urban Council, the marketshall be opened from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m.

(12) (i). Every person who needs to use or utilize any trading platform built outside the shoppingstalls of the public market shall obtain a valid ticket issued under the authority or uponit under the provisions of the By-laws in this part;

(ii). The ticket issued under the provision in paragraph(i) shall be substantially preparedaccording to the specimen given in the First Schedule 1

(13) (i). It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to perform the task of selecting a tenant touse or utilize any shopping stall in the building of the public market, being not a meatstall and to lease it out to the tenant through public tender;

(ii). When calling for tenders to rent out any shopping stall under paragraph (i) the decisionon the monthly rental payable for the said shopping stall shall be made in accordancewith the valuation of the Chief Valuation Officer.

(iii).a) The occasion that arises when the tenant has on his own free will got the agreementrepealed; or

b) The occasion that arises when the tenancy agreement has been repealed or beingrepealed due to violation of the provisions of the By-Laws in this part or violationof the conditions of the tenancy agreement or

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016120A

c) The occasion when the tenant has died leaving no spouse or child, shall beconsidered as the occasions when tenders shall be called to select a tenant underparagraph (i).

(iv). Meanwhile, unless any tenant has rejected validation of the said tenancy agreementfor any subsequent year or willfully avoid such opportunity for validation as per theconditions specified in By-Law No 55, it shall not be considered that the tenancyagreement signed by the Urban Council and the tenant has been invalidated.

(14) The tenant selected to use or utilize any shopping stall, through public tender under theprovisions of By- Law No.13 shall enter into an agreement with the Urban Council.

(15) Notwithstanding anything stated in By-law No. 13 it shall be lawful to consider the tenantmentioned in the tenancy agreement signed lately with the Urban Council in respect of each shoppingstall in any public market owned by the Urban Council on the date the By-laws in this part come intoforce, as the tenant selected to use or utilize the said shopping stall under By-law 13 effective from thedate of such enforcement. Moreover, any tenant in respect of whom these By-laws is relevant further,shall enter into a new tenancy agreement within a period of three months from the date of this By-Lawsare effective as per By-Law No 16 .

(16) (i). While any agreement signed with the Urban Council under the provisions of By-lawsNo. 14 and 15 shall be valid only for a period of one year, the period of validity of thetenancy of the said shopping stall can be extended for a further period of one year onarriving at a new agreement with the Urban Council for the subsequent year, beforeone month of the expiry of the said period of one year. The tenant shall have the rightto use or utilize the said shopping stall after getting the period of tenancy of the saidshopping stall validated annually for any subsequent year in the same manner;

(ii). However, it shall be the duty of the Urban Council to decide in accordance with thevaluation of the Chief Valuation Officer, the monthly rental that shall be paid duringthe said subsequent year for the use and utilization of the said shopping stall by anytenant having validated the period of tenancy under paragraph (i).

(17) Different places shall be allocated for sales of vegetable, fruits or any other different kindof articles.

(18) Obtaining annual trade licence for the year, is the duty of stall holders in the public marketand private market.

(19) All conditions are applicable to the platform sale of fish when they are accommodatedwithin the market premises.

(20) (i). Chicken & meat sellers shall take action to dispose the garbage generates at theirstalls as specified in by Law No 5.

(ii). It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to reserve a separate place for sale of poultrywithin the market.

(21) (i). No person other than the person holding a licence, or his agent or servant whose namehas been duly registered as such in the Urban Council Office and to whom a card ofregistration has been issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall sell, use,or occupy and part thereof in a market or sell goods therein. Also, before obtainingthe licence, the licensee and his employees shall get into a medical check-up in eachyear and that medical report shall be submitted to the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer

121AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(ii). Every stall holder who is desirous of employing any person as his agent or servant athis stall shall make application in that behalf to the Chairman. Every such applicationshall be accompanied by two copies of National Identity Card.

(iii). The Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall, upon receipt of that application, issuesuch person a duly numbered card of registration to which shall be affixed one copyof the National Identity Card forwarded with the application. The other copy of NationalIdentity Card shall be kept with the Medical Officer of Health.

(iv). Every person to whom a card of registration has been issued under these By-Lawsshall, on demand by any officer of the Urban council, produce such card for the purposeof inspection.

(v). A card of registration issued under these By-Laws may be cancelled at any time by theChairman, if he considers it necessary so to do.

(vi). Where in any change of employment, the licensee shall inform that to the Chairmanor an Authorized Officer in writing.

(22) Every person having a licence to hold or occupy a stall in any market or holding a speciallylicence to sell meat, fish or other articles in any place of business other than a public Market, and forwhich such special licence may be lawfully issued under the provision of this part , shall be bound to keepsuch stall or place of business open to the public daily between the hours of 5.00 a.m. and 9.00 p.m.,anyperson who shall close such stall or place of business or shall willfully neglect or refuse to serve thepublic during two consecutive days without written approval of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer,shall be guilty of an offence, and it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to suspendor revoke the licence of any person convicted as aforesaid, and to refuse thereafter to grant any suchlicence to any such person Also, a stall or the business place shall be taken into the possession of theCouncil.

(23) Any officer authorized by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall be employed toissue tickets to and to levy money on those tickets, any person who needs to use or utilize trading plat-forms except trading stalls in the public market. Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the AuthorizedOfficer to take action to credit money collected daily on issuing such tickets to the common fund of theUrban Council before 3.00 p.m. on each day of collection. If any money collected on issuing tickets atthe public market after action has been taken by the Authorized Officer to credit the money collected inthe common fund of the Urban Council on a certain day is still left, such money shall be credited to theUrban common fund of the Council on the following day.

(24) In the event of the inability to employ any officer authorized by the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer to issue tickets to and collect money from any person wishes to use or utilize thetrading platforms in the public market, except trading stalls, in the manner set out in By-Laws No. 23, theUrban Council shall have the power to allocate the task to a person selected on calling public tenders,hereinafter referred to as the “Lessee”.

(25) While assignment of duties for any Lessee selected under By-Law No. 24 shall be validonly for one year, a lessee shall be selected again for the following year through tenders.

(26) (i). When a lessee has been selected under the provisions of By-laws No. 25, he shall takeaction to –

(a) deposit in the Urban Council a refundable security deposit in a value decidedupon by the Urban Council at the time of calling tenders for such selection;

(b) arrive at an agreement with the Urban Council in respect of issuing such ticketsand collecting money;

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016122A

(c) deposit in the Urban Council a deposit equal to one third or more of the annualfees agreed upon by the agreement signed under theprovision of sub-paragraph(ii).

(ii). Unless the provisions set out in paragraph (i) have been fulfilled in the manner statedtherein, nobody shall be allowed to use or utilize trading platforms in any public marketbeing maintained by the Urban Council, to issue tickets to the people willing to engagein trading and to collect money for such tickets.

(27) It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to include the following as accepted conditions inthe agreement to be signed by the Urban Council with any lessee according to sub-paragraph (b) inparagraph (i) of By-laws No. 26 :–

(i). the manner in which tickets shall be issued in order to use or utilize trading platforms;

(ii). the manner in which money shall be collected for the said tickets and the maximumamount of money that shall be charged;

(iii). the total amount of money to be paid by the Lessee to the Urban Council for the yearof agreement;

(iv). the fact that the said annual money shall be paid to the Urban Council in twelve equalinstalments and the value of one such instalment ;

(v). the date on which the money that shall be paid for each month is to be paid to theUrban Council ;

(vi). the fact that the lessee is required to pay to the Urban Council a late fee amounting toten percent of the monthly charges in the event of failure to pay that money on the duedate;

(vii). the termination of the power vested in the lessee to issue tickets to those willing touse or utilize trading platforms in the public market and charge money on behalf ofthese tickets from the date of the receipt of a notification from the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer in writing on the fact that the agreement is subject to cancellationunder the provisions of the By-Law No. 28 and that the agreement has been declarednull and void in the event of the failure to pay the money due to be paid to the UrbanCouncil for a period of more than three months.

(28) (i). It shall be the duty of the anAuthorized Officer to hand over a notification in writingto the lessee demanding the payment of the arrears and late fees in the event of thefailure of the Lessee to pay to the Urban Council the monthly dues and when thearrears are for a period of more than three months.

(ii). In the event of the failure of any Lessee to pay to the Urban Council the arrears ofpayments and the late fees within seven days of the receipt of a notification underparagraph (i) the agreement signed by the Urban Council with the relevant Lesseeshall be considered to be rendered null and void with effect from the expiry of sevendays from the receipt of that notification by him, and such cancellation shall be lawful.Moreover, it shall be the duty of an Authorized Officer to inform in writing to therelevant Lessee about the cancellation of the said agreement on the day it is consideredcancelled.

123AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iii). The Lessee who was a party to any agreement cancelled under the provisions of theprovisions in paragraph (ii) shall not, on any occasion after the cancellation of thatagreement issue tickets to anybody or collect money for such tickets from anybodyto use or utilize the trading platforms of the said public market.

(iv). It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to employ any AuthorizedOfficer of the Urban Council to issue tickets and collect money on behalf of thosetickets to use or utilize the trading platforms of the public market with effect from theday after the day of the cancellation of any agreement under provisions in paragraph(ii). Moreover, in the event of the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer being of opinionthat it is not possible to get the task performed any further by an Authorized Officer,he shall forward his opinion to the Urban Council through the Chairman in order totake action according to the provisions in By-laws No.24. When the opinion of theChairman has been forwarded to the Council in the above manner the Urban Councilshall take a decision to take action in accordance with By-laws No. 24.

(v). On any occasion when the Urban Council has come to a decision to act in accordancewith By-law No. 24 as set out in paragraph (iv), the Lessee who was a party to thecancelled agreement shall have no right to submit a tender application in accordancewith the said tender notice.

(29) Everybody engaged in trading activities in shopping stalls and trading platforms in anyprivate market shall obey the provisions in these By-Law. Furthermore it shall be the duty of the licenseeof that market to ensure that the said persons obey these provisions.

(30) It shall be the duty of the licensee of every private market to obey the provisions in theseBy law No 32

(31) The following terms contained in the By-Laws shall convey the meaning given against it forthe purposes of this By-laws, in respect of any private market :-

(i). “public market” means the said private market;

(ii). “Tenant” means the person engaged in business at any shopping stall in the said privatemarket or his agent or the person in charge of the said shopping stall for the timebeing ;

(iii). “Chairman” or “an Authorized Officer”” means the licensee of the said private marketor his substitute or the agent or person in charge of the functions and duties of the saidprivate market for the time being.

(32) It shall be the duty of the licensee to display prominently at the entrance of the said privatemarket a notice or notices in all the three languages about the dates and time on which any private marketa notice or notices in all the three languages about the days and time on which any private market is keptopen.

(33) It shall not be lawful for any person to do any of following acts :

(i). Being a person holding a licence or ticket for a stall or space in public market or beingservant or agent of any such person to subject any person resorting to such market tounnecessary and vexatious annoyance or delay.

(ii). To carry on any cooking in a public market

Tasks not to becarried out( 33 – 60)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016124A

(iii). To behave in a disorder manner, or beg or commit any nuisance in any public market orthe premises appertaining thereto.

(iv). To remain in a public market after the place has been closed for business at 9 p.m.without being able to give a satisfactory reason.

(v). To damage or in any way deface any portion of the buildings, stalls, lamps. or anyproperty of the Council in or about a public market, or defile or pollute in any way, orwaste or bathe himself in or wash any clothes or animal in the water provided for usein such public market.

(vi). Fixing any advertising boards of any form other than the name board of the shoppingstall, display banners or do any other type of advertising unless formally allowed bythe Chairman or an Authorized Officer;

(vii). Excreting at any place other than the lavatory or urinal.

(viii). No person shall obtain brokerage from the farmer for sales of agricultural products.

(ix). Selling dried goods at the platform sale except the agricultural products.

(34) To make any noise, to fight or quarrel, or use insulting, abusive, or obscene language withinany public market or the premises appertaining thereto. Any person contravening these By-Laws shall beturned out by the Market-keeper or his assistant other person authorized thereto.

(35) No person shall expose, or hawk about for sale any fish, chicken, beef, mutton, or othermeat or offal in any place or street within the Limits of the Urban Council (except at a public marketprovided by the Council) without a special licence from the Council, or contrary to the tenant of suchlicence. Further no person shall sell within a radius of 0.5 kilometer from a public market without speciallicence as decided by the Council for chicken, meat and fish .Further no person shall expose or hawkabout for sales vegetables (including coconut) and any other kind of food at any place within a radius of0.5 kilometer from the public market except special licence authorized by a resolution of Urban Council.While the radius of market is not decided by the Urban Council the radius means 0.5 kilometer from themarket. The Urban Council may decide radius less than 0.5 kilometer and shall declare.

(36) No person shall, within the market area sell edible fish, other than shell fish, except byweight.

(37) No person shall keep or sell in a public market any type of things or other than what isspecified in the licence or ticket. No person shall sell or expose for sale any meat or offal either in apublic market or in a place specially licensed under By-Law No 22 without a pass issued to him under By-Law No 35 of this part. And it shall be lawful for any authorized Urban Officer or a Police Officer todemand the produce of such passes from any person selling or exposing meat for sale, and on failure ofproduce to seize any meat in such market without such pass, or contrary to the terms thereof, and toremove the same to the Urban Office or to a Police Station to be disposed of as may be directed by theJudge or decided by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.

(38) No person shall sell any chicken without proper licence at any stall in the public market.

(39) No person shall keep or use or occupy or hold any stall, shop, or other place in a publicmarket unless he is a person or the agent of a person having the permission of the Chairman or an Autho-rized Officer to exercise the powers of Urban Chairman under the Urban Council Ordinance to sell orexpose for sale any article at such stall, shop or place.

125AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(40) Space properly marked and numbered shall be set apart in every public market for the saleof vegetables, fruits and other articles by persons paying such daily fee as the Chairman or Urban Chair-man may from time to time determine. No person shall occupy any such space without having obtained aticket, or sell or expose for sale or sale any vegetables fruits or other articles not specified in his ticket.A ticket signed by any person authorized thereto in writing by the Chairman or An Authorized Officershall be issued to each person who pays such fee.

(41) No person shall transfer to any other person a licence or ticket issued to him for any stallor space in a public market , or shall sublet any such stall or space or any part thereof and no person shalluse, or hold, or occupy any stall use or space or any part thereof under any alleged transfer without thepermission of the Chairman or Urban Chairman

(42) No person holding a ticket for any space in any public market shall under any pretextwhatsoever allow or permit any other person to use or occupy such space or any part thereof, or to sell orexpose for sale any goods, articles, or things of any description whatsoever

(43) No person other than a ticket-holder shall use or occupy any space or any part thereof in apublic market or sell or expose goods therein.

(44) Being a person affected with any loathsome or contagious or infectious disease, to occupyany stall, seat, space in any public or private market, or expose or carry about for sale in such market, orin any street within the Limits of the Urban Council any article whatsoever, no person shall employ in anycapacity in any public or private market any person affected with any such disease. No person so affectedshall enter any market .Any such person may be expelled from the market premises.

(45) No person holding a licence for any stall in the public market shall under any pretextwhatsoever suffer or permit any other person to use or occupy such stall or any part thereof, or to sell orexpose for sale any goods, articles, or thing of any description whatsoever without the authority of theUrban Chairman

(46) No person holding a licence or ticket for any stall or space in a public market shall use, oroccupy, or permit or allow any person acting or on his behalf to use or occupy, and no agent or servant ofperson holding such licence or ticket shall use or occupy any stall or space or any ground beyond thelimits of the stalls or space rented by him

(47) No person shall throw rubbish, refuse bones, skins of animals or such like item or upon anypublic market or its premises into or any drain on or near the market promises, except into a receptacleprovided f or such purpose.

(48) Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, no carcass of any animal (of any portionthereof) not slaughtered at a Local Authority slaughter house shall be brought into a public or privatemarket, or to any place specially licensed as provided in By-Law No 22 of this part, or sold or exposedfor sale in any public market or private market or in such specially licensed place. The provisions of theseBy-Laws shall not apply to meat, game or fish imported into the Island, Meat, game or fish so importedshall be sold in any place specially licensed therefor

(49) No person shall bring a dog into a market or allow any dog belonging to him or in his chargeto be on any part of any market

(50) (i). In case of any materials or goods brought into the public market for sale or anyinstrument or anything else used in trading activities, they shall not be kept or allowedto be kept on any corridor or platform bank except when they are brought into themarket or taken out of it.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016126A

(ii). While no type of trading activities shall be pursued in a corridor or on a platformbank inside the public market, any action causing disturbances to persons walkingalong the pavements, reserved places, corridors or over the platform banks or thesteps shall not be done.

(51) Unless the Urban Council has come to a decision and given permission for the particularactivity nobody shall undertake any type of construction or fixture or alteration or partitioning that wouldalter or damage the overall plan of any shopping stall in the public market.

(52) Nobody shall erect a trading platform or make a partitioning in any place within the publicmarket.

(53) Unless somebody is a holder of a valid ticket issued under the provisions of the By-Law No12 or his or her employee or a agent of him or her and comply with the orders and conditions of the By-laws in this part, nobody shall use or utilize a trading platform built outside the shopping stalls of thepublic market. Further no person shall keep any of that place after time fixed for closing of market.

(54) Unless somebody is a person who has entered into a tenancy agreement with the UrbanCouncil under the provisions of the By-Laws in this part or his employee or sub-agent and comply withthe orders and conditions of the By-Laws in this part and the said tenancy agreement, nobody shall use orutilize any shopping stall in the public market.

(55) Unless action has been taken to get validated the period of tenancy for the subsequent yearunder By-Laws No. 16 before the expiry of one month from the date of the expiry of the period oftenancy of any shopping stall, no tenant shall have the right to use or utilize the said shopping stall afterthe expiry of the last day of the said month.

(56) Nobody shall take action to sublet any shopping stall in the public market. Any loss or harmor damage caused to any sub-tenant as a result of the cancellation of the agreement entered into betweenthe Urban Council and the tenant of the said shopping stall due to subletting of any shopping stall byanybody and as a result of vesting back the said shopping stall to the Urban Council shall be vested withthe said sub-tenant. Meanwhile the Urban Council or the Chairman or Chairman or the Authorized Officershall not be subjected to responsibility in this regard.

(57) Nobody shall obtain or allow anybody else to obtain an electricity connection or waterconnection to a shopping stall from any electrical circuit or common water tap put in place for public usein the premises of the public market.

(58) (i). Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 62.

(ii). It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under theprovisions for private market and any person in the public market, to the Chairman oran Authorized Officer for inspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop suchinspection.

(59) No person shall do as being a Market-keeper or lessee of a public market or any personemployed under him, to demand or receive a greater rent, toil, or fee than that authorized to be received,or to give any unnecessary or vexatious annoyance to any person under presence of performing any dutyor exercising any authority imposed or conferred upon him.

(60) No licence shall be issued for any private market by the Chairman or UrbanChairmanunless required conditions specified in this By-Law for a public market has been duly fulfilled.

127AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(61) The Urban Council shall obey the following directives in these By-laws in regard to anypublic market constructed and maintained by the Urban Council, viz:

(i). While all permanent buildings of the public market shall be built with bricks, cementblocks or any other approved stones the height of the walls shall be at least threemetres from the ground level.

(ii). The roof shall be made of some permanent material.

(iii). While the roof of the inner shopping stalls shall be fitted with ceilings the ceilingsshall be at a height of at least 3 metres from the ground level.

(iv). While the front side of the inner shopping stalls shall contain a corridor at least 2.5meters wide, the place where each shopping stall meets the corridor shall contain acollapsible door or a door that could be removed as planks.

(v). Platform banks and drains carrying away rain water, at least one meter in width shallhave been constructed at the outer boundary of the walls and the outer boundary of thecorridor of the building containing the shopping stalls.

(vi). Trading platforms shall have been constructed for temporary traders outside theshopping stalls of the building.

(vii). Every trading platform constructed inside the building shall consist of a floor boardmade of concrete sheet or stainless metal sheet placed on a bank made with bricks orcement blocks or any other approved stone. However,when it is not possible toconstruct trading platforms in this manner the floor board is made with cement blocksor any other approved stones,it shall be plastered with cement or tiled. The flat spacesshall be allocated on the floor and each section shall be demarcated in white paint.

(viii). The area of each trading platform shall not be less than two square metres.

(ix). While a roof covering each trading platform and constructed at a height of at least2.25 metres above the floor level on posts made with bricks or cement blocks or anyother approved stones or galvanized iron bars or reinforced aluminum bars shall bemade available the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2.1 metres above the floorlevel. Moreover, when these posts are constructed with bricks or cement blocks orany other approved stones they shall be plastered and applied with paints and if theyare constructed with galvanized iron bars they shall be painted.

(x). While every roof shall be constructed with solid materials sufficient pipes shall havebeen fixed to drain away water accumulated in the gutters.

(xi). The platform bank at least one metre in width, shall have been constructed on theground around every trading platform.

(xii). While a quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Boardon the suitability of the water used in the premises for human consumption shall havebeen obtained this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six months.In the event of the water being supplied by the National Water Supply andDrainage Board is used at the premises it shall be presumed that this certificate hasbeen obtained;

Functions of theLocalAuthority(61-64)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016128A

(xiii). In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft drinks and activities of the premisesbeing kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution of water storedshall be put in place;

(xiv). While a sufficient number of separate lavatories and urinals shall have been constructedfor the use of the males and females the floor of every lavatory and the walls up to aminimum of two metres above the floor level shall have been tiled.

(xv). While sufficient electricity shall have been provided to all shopping stalls, tradingplatforms, lavatories and urinals and to all common areas including the corridors everyelectric circuit shall have been covered with a bad conductor covering.

(xvi). While every shopping stall shall have been fixed with an electricity meter each aseparate meter shall have been fixed to measure the electricity units spent for theelectrification of common areas.

(xvii). Common water taps to obtain water shall have been fixed within the premises.

(xviii). A separate area shall have been allocated to wash vegetables and fruits.

(xix). Water supplies shall have been provided to each shopping stall that requires water dueto the nature of their business. While a separate water meter each shall have beenfixed for each of these supply points a separate water meter each shall have been fixedto measure the consumption of water at common taps and at the places allocated forthe washing of vegetables and fruits.

(xx). While a sufficient system of drains shall have been provided to enable free flow ofwater accumulated from rain water directly falling on the floor and the roofs andwater disposed of, from the place allocated for the washing of vegetables and fruitsarrangements shall have been provided to allow free flow of such waste water.

(xxi). While a sufficient fire protection programme shall have been put in place, action shallhave been taken to fix different types of firefighting equipment necessary for thecontrol of fire generated from electric circuits, fire caused by fuels and fire generateddue to any other reason.

(xxii). A standard common scale shall have been kept at a separate and prominent place witha view to weighing and ensuring the weight of the goods purchased by the consumers.

(xxiii). It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to separate the market into sections for saleof meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, groceries and other commodities, having taken intoconsideration the location of the shopping stalls of the common market and also toseparate the trading platforms in the same manner.

(xxiv). While tanks, receptacles or containers that could accommodate waste generated inthe premises and categorized as:

(a) biodegradable waste ;

(b) glass ;

(c) paper or paper related materials ;

(d) polythene and plastics or materials related to polythene and plastics ;

129AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(e) iron and other metals or pieces of iron and other metals ;

(f) dangerous waste ;

shall have been constructed in a separate area of the public market the receptacle ortank constructed to collect bio-degradable garbage shall be provided with a lid thatcould be tightly closed so that rats, animal, flies, insects or any type of bird couldgain entry into it.

(xxv). Sufficient parking facilities shall be provided to the bicycles, motor bicycles and themotor vehicles of consumers as well as those transporting goods.

(xxvi). It shall be duty of the Chairman or Urban Chairman to provide a separate and commonplace to sell retail and whole sale of agricultural products to farmers. Further , it shallbe the duty of farmer to follow procedures specified in these By-Laws

(xxvii). The layout of the public market shall be display at a conspicuous place in the publicmarket where the public can easy see. Further all section of the market such as stallsection, flat form sellers section fish market, meat stall section and agriculturalproducts sale section shall be shown in this Lay- out of the public market.

(62) While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or Chairman or an Authorized Officer to purchasea sample of any kind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale in the premises of any public market or anyprivate market.

(63) It shall be the duty of the Urban Council to ensure that the platform sellers and stall holdersare selling the item as specified in the agreement accordance with the Lay-out of the public market.

(64) Slope steps and hand holders shall be fitted with the building for the disable persons toproceed into the market with their wheel

(65) (i). It shall be lawful to the Urban Chairman to recover rent from the stall holderaccordance with the valuation made by Chief valuer and agreement made with tenancy

(ii). It shall be lawful to the Secretary to recover fees from the person who are using theselling platform as specified in schedule ii accordance with Urban council decisionand to recover fees less than 5% of the total sales from the person/ farmers who areusing common and opened place to sell their product. Further it shall be lawful to theUrban Chairman to assign the recovery of fees on annual lease to the lessee and torecover the lease according to the agreement as specified in this paragraph. Howeverdetails of all fees shall be published in the Government Gazette of Sri Lanka.

(iii). Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated toconduct private market

(iv). Twenty five percent out of whole sale tax recovered from the agricultural productsbrought the private market for sale at the rate decided by the Urban Council (as perparagraph (ii)) shall be paid to the Urban Council, A separate agreement also shall bemade with the private market holders. The receipts books approved by the UrbanCouncil only shall be used for their collections by the private market holders. ThisBy-Laws is applicable to private fish market also.

Charges and fees

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016130A

(66) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(67) Validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31st

December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(68) The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer of the provisions of the By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when a public market or aprivate market is opened for business activities.

(69) It shall be lawful to Urban Council to issue or refuse a licence for the application with theconsideration of public benefit to conduct private market within the Urbancouncil area. In the event of thepremises where any private market is maintained under a licence issued under the By-laws of this partfails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4 to be read withBy-Law No. 61 or contravenes the provisions of any By-laws of the by-laws set out in this part theChairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding himto accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before aspecified date.

(70) Any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No 69 shall act in the mannerprescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons havebeen forwarded in writing the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall have the power to extend the datespecified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than fourteen days.

(71) When any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-laws No. 70 fails to act in accor-dance with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended itshall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to cancel the licence issued to that premises.

(72) If any dispute arises concerning any stall, space, bin, rent or fee, it shall be competent tothem as to him, Chairman or an Authorized Officer to determine the same and make such order thereon asto him may seem proper.

(73) Any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.

(74) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws isan offence.

(75) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(76) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected asChairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance.

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (68-71)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism(72-73)

Violation ofBy-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

131AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of Urban Council.”

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

”Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Lawsof the public Market and person who is responsible for management, is employed by theperson in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Spouse” means the legal wife or husband of any lessee;”

Public Market” means any place where shopping stalls constructed for the purpose of engagingin sales or where facilities are put in place for the sale of goods and commodities includingvegetables or fruits produced in their gardens or home gardens and a place erected and beingmaintained by the Urban Council, and it shall also include a place where any product isbought or sold wholesale or retail.

“Private Market” means any place where activities similar to those carried out in a public marketare carried out by anybody or a body of persons or any cooperated body not being the UrbanCouncil;

“Chief Valuation Officer” means the Chief Valuation Officer of the Department of Valuation andit shall also include any officer appointed by the said Department on behalf of the Adminis-trative District to which the Urban Council belongs;

“Tenant of a stall” means any person maintaining any shopping stall in any public market under anagreement with the Urban Council ;

“Trading platform” means any platform erected for the purpose of day to day sales within apublic market, separated from the shopping stalls in the said market, and it includes any placedemarcated for sales activities by drawing lines on the floor of the said public market.

“Lessee” means any person obtained public market on annual lease, issuing and collecting feesfor use of trading platform.

“Extent of the space allocated for trading purposes in any public market “means the section fromthe back wall of the shopping stall up to the limit of the door stated in section 61 of this By-Laws, in case of shopping stalls and the surface area of the trading platform and the areabehind the trading platform allowed to be used by the trader engaged in sales, in case of atrading platform.

“Licensed premise” means place for which issued license to take all measures under thisprovision.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures to makebusiness at the specified place.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016132A

SCHEDULE I

… … … … … … … … … … … … … Urban Council … …

… … … … … Public Market

Ticket for the use or utilization of a trading platform

Name of the holder of the ticket: … … … … … … … … … … …

National Identity Card No. : … … … … … … … … … … … …

Number of the trading platform or the demarcated area: … … …

Duration of allotment:

From … … … 20… …… to … … … … … 20… … …

Number of days allotted: 01 day / 07 days / 01 month

Fees charged: Rs…………………

Date of issue: … … … … … … … 20… … … …

… … … … … … … … … …

Signature of the Tax Collector

(Strike off inapplicable words.)

SCHEDULE II

By-law No. 29

Table of Fees charged for the use or utilization of a trading platform in a public market

Nature of the tradingFees for a dayFees for 7 daysFees for a monthplatformRs.Rs.Rs.

Trading platform built abovethe floor level

Area separated by markingon the floor

133AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

URBAN COUNCIL

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….... for Conducting Private Market

1. Name of the Market:-…………………………………………………………………………

2. Place of the Market:-

(i). Ward No.: …………………………..

(ii). Assessment No.:……………………………

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….

3.

(i). Full Name of the Applicant ……………

(ii). Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………

(iii). GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-……………………………………………..

(iv). NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………

(v). Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

(vi). e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

4.

(i). Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..

(ii).

(a) Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Market:-…………………………

(b) Telephones Number of the Owner /Manager / Agent of Market:- ………………

5. If the land/ building is obtained on lease/rent.

(i). Name of the Owner:………………………………………………………

(ii). Address:-………………………………………………………………………….

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:…………………..

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:…………………………………..

Date:…………………………………………

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016134A

7. As per Stated in the By-Law,

(i). Number of Trading Platforms:……………………………………………

(ii). Number of Stalls:……………………………………………………………

8. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the market:…………………………………………

9. Toilets :

(i). The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …

(ii). The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

10. Water:

(i). Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide drinking water to customers:……………………………………………

(ii). Method/methods and number of method/methods to provide water to wash vegetables : ………………… ……………………

11. Method/ methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

12. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Private Market/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………Date Sectional Head.

135AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of revenue department,

1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health's Report :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016136A

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary

Signed

……………………………….………………………………………… DateChairman/Authorized Officer

PART II-STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO SEIZURE, FORBID, REMOVAL AND DESTRUCTIONOF ARTICLES UNFIT FOR FOOD WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to seizure, forbid, removal anddestruction of articles unfit for food within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting public sanitation and health ofpublic residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the sub sections157 (9) (g) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) It shall be the duty and responsibility of a licensed diary man to make application for obtain-ing period and numbered card from the Chairman or authorized officer annually to all vendorsemployed annually. Such card shall bear name, address and place of sale and a photograph of the vendorshall be affixed herewith.

(5) No person shall sell ,hawk or expose for sale of milk unless he has a card indicated his nameand issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer

(6) No person shall sell, hawk or expose milk for sales unless name of dairy man under whomhe is employed is still on the card at the time of sale, hawking or exposing of milk for sale

(7) No person shall sell or cause to sell or expose to sell milk or milk products not having theminimum of compositional requirements of milk as shown in schedule 01.

(8) No person shall bring unfit food of any meat, fish, game, vegetable, fruit or other articles offood within the limits of Urban Council for sale or exposing to sale.

(9) No person shall add, mix ,stain, color or powder or order or permit any other person to add,mix ,stain, color or powder any article with any ingredient or material so as to render the article injuriesto health with intent that to be sold in that state.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted

Tasks not to becarried out(05 –15)

137AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(10) No person shall sell any such article so added, mixed, colored, strained or powdered.

(11) No person shall sell any tinned or salted meat, fish or other article of food unfit for thehuman consumption or lapsed.

(12) No person shall sell or expose for sale milk from which the cream has been removed,unless he previously informs the person to whom he sells or exposes it that the cream has been removed

(13) No person shall expose for sale any cooked food, pastry, sweet meats, and confectioneryor preserved or dried fruit intended for human consumption unless he has taken all reasonable precau-tions to protect it from dust, files and bad adours.

(14) No person shall sell any kind of spoiled adulterated full cream milk unfit for humanconsumption

(15) No person shall refuse to issue receipt for purchasing of tinned or salted meat, fish orother articles of food by the Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or Authorized Officer ofthe Urban Council.

(16) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to issue printed numberedcards with serial number annually to all employees of the diary man on his request. A copy of photographof vendor affixed with card shall be kept at the office of Urban Council. Further name and address of dairyman, time of sale, hawking and exposing of milk for sale shall be indicated in the card.

(17) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(18) The Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or an Authorized Urban Officer mayat any time, demand and take for the purpose of analysis samples of any milk which is in possession of aregistered dairy man or any person who is found selling, hawking or exposing milk for sale and anyregistered dairy man or other person who refuses to permit samples to be taken shall be guilty of anoffence.

(19) If any person fails to produce such a card for inspection on demand by any Authorizedofficer or Police Officer, he shall be guilty of an offence and such officer arrest him and shall conveyhim fourth with after arrest to the nearest Police station. Officer incharge of the police station shall dealwith him as if he has been arrested by Police Officer without a warrant under the provision of criminalprocedure code. Such cards may be cancelled at any time by the Chairman, if it appears to him to benecessary, in the interest of the public health.

(20) (i). It shall be lawful for the Medical Officer of Health or any Authorized Officer to enterany place used for the manufacture or sale of aerated waters (cool drinks) at any timewhen such place is opened and to purchase a sample bottle of any kind of aeratedwater which is there manufactured or kept for sale and proprietor or person inchargesuch business who shall refuse to permit such sample to be taken shall be guilty of anoffence. Such sample shall be forthwith forwarded to the City or Government Analystand the certificate issued by Government Analyst shall be as proof it to be unfit for thehuman consumption.

(ii). In taking samples of milk, the Medical Officer of Health, Veterinary Surgeon orAuthorized Urban Officer shall take three samples and shall at once sealed them in thepresence of the registered dairy man or other person from whom there taken, and

Function of theUrban Council

Delegation ofpower

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (18 – 20)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016138A

shall deliver one of such registered dairy man or other person, send the second to thecity or Government Analyst and third to the Urban Office. A certificate signed by suchcity or Government Analyst, if state that the sample adulterated, shall be evidence thatthe milk from which sample was taken, was adulterated. Should any evidence to thecontrary be offered, a certificate from the City or Government Analyst shall beconclusive on the question adulteration.

(iii). The Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or an Authorized Urban Officeras the case may be ,may enter any shop or other place where tinned or salted meat iskept for sale , at any time when such shop or place is opened and seize any tinned orsalted meat which he reasonably suspects to be unfit for human food , and he shallforthwith send such tinned or salted meat to the City or Government Analyst and thecertificate of such authorized analyst, if it states that tinned or salted meat is unfit forhuman food ,shall be evidence of that fact until the contrary is proved and proprietoror person incharge of the shop or places where such tinned or salted meat was seized,shall unless contrary is so proved as stated above, be guilty of an offence

(21) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(22) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(23) (i). Should any sample of milk taken under the provisions of the above said By-Laws,prove to be adulterated ,the person in whose possession it is found shall be guilty ofan offence. If such person be a vendor of , or a person in the employ of or acting onbehalf of a dairy man, then both such person and dairy man shall be guilty of an offence.

(ii). It shall be lawful for the Urban Council Officer upon the Seizure by him unwholesomeor unfit for the human food of meat of cattle, poultry , fish , flesh, vegetable, fruits orother articles of food introduced into or exposed for sale within the limits, to conveythe same to the Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or in their absence,to judge of court who has jurisdiction within the Urban limits and if it appears to theMedical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or the Urban Judge that meat ,poultry ,fish ,game, vegetable, fruits or other articles of food are unfit for humanfood, he shall order the them to be destroyed or to be disposed of as to prevent itbeing used for food.

(iii). Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within theUrban limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of theUrban Council Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable toadditional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(24) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

”The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

”Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils.

”Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

139AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

”The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

”Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of any By laws andperson who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of themanagement of that place.

”Licensed premise “means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under the provi-sion of any By-Laws.

”Aerated water” means types of drinks manufactured using one type or all types of fruits, es-sence and syrups, and canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall also include soda water.

Annexure -01

Compositional Requirements of milk

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IVClass of milkDesignationMilk fat minimumMilk solids other thanpercentmilk fact minimum percent

1. BuffaloRow, pasteurised or7.09.0sterilised

7. cowDo3.58.5

8. StandardisedPasteurised or sterilised3.258.25

9. TonedDo2.08.5

10. FlavouredDo2.07.2

11. SkimmedDo-8.5

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Barber Shops andBeauty Centreswithin the area of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Business Center :-

2. Place of the Business Center:-

i. Ward No.:-

ii. Assessment No.:-

iii. Name of the Road/Street:-

iv. GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:-

i. Full Name:-

ii. Permanent Address:-

iii. GN Division No. & Name:-

iv. NIC No.:-

v. Telephone No.:-

vi. e-mail Address:-

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016140A

4.i. Date of Beginning the Business

ii. Name of the manager of the meat Stall:

iii. Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

i. Name of the Owner:

ii. Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:…………………………Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

141AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of revenue department,

(iv). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(v). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(vi). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateAccountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016142A

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional Head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeeenactment formaking By-LawsTasks to beexecuted (4-15)

PART III - STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE ANDCONTROL OF ANNOYING BUSINESS, DANGEROUS BUSINESS AND ANNOYING AND DANGEROUSBUSINESS WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,supervise and control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous businesswithin the area of7 authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Urban Councils by the sub section 157(9) (n) of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous andannoying business carrying by the Chairman, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.

(i). The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition

(ii). Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height

(iii). These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides.

(iv). Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level

143AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(v). Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi). The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 metre max trail

(vii). The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii). Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and thebins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting intothem.

(ix). Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws

(x). A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises;

(xi). In the event of the Urban Council maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered withoutmixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from theconstructed well.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law No 5 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.

(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo 9 in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or morethan once a day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when thegarbage is being put or removed.

(9)(i). If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows

(a) Bio-degradable wastes;

(b) Glass;

(c) Paper or paper related materials;

(d) Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e) Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f) Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g) Hazardous waste.

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016144A

(ii). Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Urban Council, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman or an Authorized Officer .

(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying oreffluvial.

(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering andput in to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.

(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring fromthe production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall bedisposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.

(13) All license holders shall safely and keep in good manner the walls of business premiseswithout absorbing any dirty.

(14) All license holders shall keep clean the baskets and other instruments use for businessactivities, and should clean every day.

(15) The tanks using for wash or dunk the leather or other things shall clean without spreadingany smell by the license holder.

(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerousbusiness carrying within the authority of the Urban Council area, unless he or she has a valid licenceissued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in schedule 1 for the purpose of that,issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer .

(17) It shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place for sleeping and takingfoods in night or day time by the licence holder or any person.

(18) Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea orany other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall notpollute above mentioned places.

(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or danger-ous and annoying business is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licensee contra-venes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall takeaction to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to re-store the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(20) The dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying businesses decidedby Urban Council are included in orderly in Schedules No. (I), (II) and (III). It is a duty of the Chairman oran Authorized Officer to informing the applicant about issuing the license.

(21) It is a duty of the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to inform the applicant whether acceptto issue licence accordance with these By-Laws or reject with the reasons within 30 days of receiving anapplication submitted by a person to him for obtaining a license for any business.

(22) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoying business, danger-ous business and annoying and dangerous business.

Tasks not to becarried out( 16 – 18)

Function of theLocalAuthority(19-21)

Charges and fees

145AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer

(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No 19, shall act asstipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, theChairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period ofextension shall not be exceeded 14 days.

(27) The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned By-Law No. 26 in these By-Laws failsto act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsis an offence.

(30) (i). Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within theUrban limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255 of theUrban Councils Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable toadditional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(ii). Every person who runs any business or trade specified in schedule 1, 2 and 3 withoutlicence at any place within the Limits of the Urban Council shall guilty of an offenceand shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and incase a continuing offence an additional fine not exceeding five hundred rupees pereach day during which said offence is continued after a conviction thereof in term ofsection 3 of 147 of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman or an Autho-rized Officer to carry out particular duty.

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (25-27)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation ofBy-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretationand Definition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016146A

“ The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By lawsand person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge orManager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means, place for which is issued license to take all measures under theseprovisions.

First Schedule - Annoying Businesses

1)Clearing and Storing Graphite.2)Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.3)Tanning of Leather.4)Leather for selling.5)Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or eggs).6)Producing of Maldives fish or storing more than 50 Kg.7)Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.8)Maintaining a veterinary hospital.9)Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.10)Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.11)Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.12)Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.13)Drying tobacco.14)Producing animal feed.15)Producing Poonac.16)Boiling meats with blood.17)Producing soap18)Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.19)Making trunk boxes.20)Keeping new and old metals.21)Keeping ruined metals22)Making housing furniture.23)Making cane products.24)Maintaining carpeting industry.25)Making syrup or fruit juice.26)Making sweets.27)Dunking coconut husks28)Producing brushes. (except tooth brush)29)Producing tooth brush.30)Collecting toddy.31)Producing vinegar.32)Cleaving timber.33)Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.34)Producing soda.

147AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

35)Painting fibres.36)Producing leather instruments.37)Tin fish, fruits and other foods.38)Powdering coffee and grains.39)Producing baking powder.40)Making gas mantels.41)Producing putty.42)Making camphor.43)Making candle.44)Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.45)Producing blue of cloth washing.46)Producing sealing wax.47)Producing perfumes.48)Producing shocks.49)Producing tire or tubes.50)Refill tires.51)Vulcanizing tires.52)Manufacturing cement.53)Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.54)Manufacturing sand papers.55)Manufacturing plastic products.56)Kilning bricks.57)Weaving cloths by machines.58)Manufacturing or re storing of acids.59)Manufacturing of roofing tiles.60)Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.61)Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.62)Manufacturing garments products.63)Running a poultry farm.64)Manufacturing disinfectant.65)Repairing and renovation of tires and tubes.66)Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.67)Manufacturing cigarette and cigarette with tobacco.

Second Schedule – Dangerous Businesses

1)Quarrying metal.2)Making cool drinks (aerated water).3)Making ice.4)Manufacturing vegetable oils.5)Manufacturing coconut oils.6)Manufacturing or storing matches.7)Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.8)Manufacturing tea boxes.9)Manufacturing coir or other fibers.10)Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016148A

11)Storing hay.12)Storing used garments.13)Manufacturing and repairing jewelries’.14)Sawing timber by machines.15)Quarrying lime stone.16)Running a business using machines.17)Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.18)Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.19)Storing used papers and newspapers.20)Spray Painting.21)Storing fire working or crackers.22)Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)23)Running a welding work shop.24)Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.25)Printers.26)Blasting and gunpowder stores.27)Displaying advertisement

Third Schedule –Annoying and Dangerous Businesses

1)Clearing mica.2)Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.3)Dry clean or dyeing.4)Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.5)Electro planting metals.6)Manufacture of oil or animal oil.7)Kilning lime stones.8)Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.9)Processing cod-liver oil.10)Building boarts.11)Recharge or repairing batteries12)Welding metals.13)Repairing motor vehicles.14)Servicing motor vehicles.15)Grinding metals with machines.16)Running a casting shop.17)Running a tin workshop.18)Making bodies for motor vehicles.19)Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.20)Manufacturing disinfectors.21)Manufacturing of mosquito coils.22)Manufacturing timber protects.23)Manufacturing gal tar.24)Manufacturing glass products.25)Making glass mirrors.26)Galvanize metals.27)Manufacturing welding lead.28)Manufacturing aluminum products.29)Manufacturing barbed wire.

149AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

30)Manufacturing wire nails.31)Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.32)Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.33)Manufacturing P.I buckets.34)Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.35)Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.36)Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.37)Manufacturing machineries.38)Manufacturing electrical products.39)Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.40)Manufacturing storage batteries.41)Assembling tractors.42)Manufacturing radiator.43)Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.44)Manufacturing Battery.45)Paddy mills.46)Making coffin.47)Manufacturing and repairing telephones.48)Assembling and repairing electrical products.49)Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments50)Funeral service supply centre(Funeral home)

Annexure -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business, andannoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Business Center :-

2. Place of the Business Center:-

i. Ward No.:-

ii. Assessment No.:-

iii. Name of the Road/Street:-

iv. GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:-

i. Full Name:-

ii. Permanent Address:-

iii. GN Division No. & Name:-

iv. NIC No.:-

v. Telephone No.:-

vi. e-mail Address:-

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016150A

4.i. Date of Beginning the Business

ii. Name of the manager of the meat Stall:

iii. Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

i. Name of the Owner:

ii. Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the By Law. Iapply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

151AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016152A

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

………………………………. …………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-30)

PART IV — STANDARD BY-LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, ADMINISTRATE,CONTROL AND MONITOR OF SLAUGHTER-HOUSES WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THEURBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, andadministrate, monitor and control the slaughter house within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of maintaining sanitation, health and providingproper food for the public residing within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the UrbanCouncils Ordinance.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub section157 (10)(a) read with section 153 (1) and accordance with the section 128 of the Urban Councils Ordi-nance and Chapter 3 the of butchers Ordinance

(4) Every public slaughter house shall be under the supervising of an officer appointed by theproper authority and he shall be called superintendent of slaughter house.

(5) Any licensed butcher or special permit holder shall be permitted to slaughter animals duringthe hours only fixed by Chairman or an Authorized Officer from time to time.

(6) Licensed butcher or special licensed person shall slaughter animals only at such placeswithin the slaughter house that are assigned to him by the superintendent of the slaughter-house.

(7) No licensed butcher shall slaughter any animals unless the Chairman of Urban Council shallhave issued to him a printed permit duly filled in the form authorized by the him. The printed permitbefore issue shall be duly filled in by the veterinary surgeon or qualified Officer and signed by him and bythe butcher to whom it is issued, and shall bear the date of the issue.

(8) The slaughter house shall be declared accordance with the provision of the Butchers Ordi-nance

153AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(9) The certificate mentioned in this By-Law No 38 shall be produced to the superintendent ofthe slaughter-house before the animal is admitted into the slaughter house premise.

(10) Should any person claim any animals while exposing in a public slaughter house premisesprevious to slaughter the slaughtering of such animal shall be stayed, and the person who has brought itshall be required for with to pay any fees due in respect of such animal and to remove it from the slaughterhouse.

(11) All animals brought to or left at a slaughterhouse shall be properly secured with ropes toprevent their escaping.

(12) Every licensed butcher shall submit to the Superintendent of the slaughterhouse a certifiedcopy of his licence and the certificate of registration of every servant whom he employs at the slaughterhouse as he shall have obtained them.

(13) The skins, entrails and offal of slaughtered cattle shall be collected by the butcher or hisemployees in places set apart in order to be washed and cleaned before their removal.

(14) When a licensed butcher or his registered servants are using the slaughter houses, thelicensed butcher shall be respond any damage done to the slaughter houses, either by his own act or by theact of his servants, and shall be liable on demand such amount, as the Chairman or an Authorized Officershall think fit for the damage so done; in failure of which the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shallhave the either of cancelling his licence or of recovering the amount of such damage from the licensedbutcher and his sureties, or both.

(15) The motor vans, in which licensed butchers and others are required by these by-laws toremove meat from slaughterhouse shall be produced before the superintendent of the slaughter house forinspection whenever they enter the slaughter premises, and shall not be permitted to remove meat fromthe slaughter house unless they are found to be clean and in service diction to the satisfaction of the saidsuperintendent.

(16) Fees to be charged shall be prescribed from time to time by the council by resolution inrespect of the following per head of cattle:-

(i). For the use of the slaughter house by-

a) Cattle (other than buffaloes)

b) Pig

c) Sheep and goats.

(ii). For feeding (for each period of twenty-four hours or any part (thereof)-

a) Cattle

b) Pig

(iii). For occupation of shed:

a) Cattle

(17) The Chairman may, after two days’ notice by publicity cause any animal which has beenretained at the slaughterhouse for default of payment of fees due on it to be sold by public auction, andshall out of the proceeds retain any fees due at incurred in respect of such animal and pay over the surplus,if any, on application, to the person who shall have be brought such animal for slaughter to theslaughter house.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016154A

(18) Animals affected with infectious diseases, when brought to the slaughter house, shall beseized and conducted to such place or places as the Chairman shall from time to time appoint to be theredestroyed or disposed of as the shall think proper.

(19) Should the person who has brought to the slaughter house any animal for the slaughter ofwhich a permit has been refused or the slaughter or which has been forbidden fail to remove it from theslaughterhouse premises within twelve hours after such refusal or prohibition, the Chairman may aftertwo days’ notice by publicity cause such animal to be sold by public auction shall out of proceeds retainthe amount of fees due and expenses incurred in respect of such animals and pay over the surplus, if therebe any on application, to the person who shall have brought such animals for slaughter to theslaughterhouse.

(20) As specified in By-Law No 41, the person removing such meat, skin entrails or offal shallproduce such pass or passes for inspection on demand by any Urban Council officer or Police officer andshould such person fail to do so, such meat, skin, entrails, or offal shall be liable to be seized and removedto the Urban Council Office or to the Police station to be disposed of as may be directed by the Chairmanor an Authorized Officer of the Urban Council, without any compensation to the owner.

(21) The application for such special license as per By-Law No 44 shall contain informationwith reference to the animal similar to that contained in Form A prescribed in the schedule to the Brand-ing sale and Transfer of cattle ordinance (chapter 473) and shall be accompanied by a report from a policeOfficer or Urban Council Officer or Grama Sevaka of the applicant’s area certifying that the animalbelongs to the applicant. A fee decided by the council time to time shall be charged for this speciallicence.

(22) Every slaughter-house shall be thoroughly washed and swept twice at least daily at suchtimes as the Chairman may fix.

(23) Every slaughter-house shall be lime-washed, or painted both side(in and out), once at leastin every three months.

(24) Every slaughter –house shall be paved with granite stones or flat paving bricks or tiles, orconcrete or asphalt, and the joints fresh pointed with mortar once at least annually.

(25) If on any animal which has been approved as aforesaid being slaughtered the carease shallappear or otherwise unfit for human food, the said superintendent or other person authorized by theChairman shall cause the said to be then and there destroyed or so disposed of as to prevent its beingexposed for sale or used for human food. Should it be denied that the meat is unfit for human food, thesaid superintendent or other authorized person shall forthwith call upon the Veterinary Surgeon or Medi-cal Officer of Health to proceed with him to the slaughter house and there inspect that said meat; andshould it be decided by the said Veterinary Surgeon or Medical Officer of Health, whose decision in thematter shall be final, that the meat in unfit for human food, it shall be lawful for such superintendent orother authorized person thereafter to destroy or dispose of the same as here in before provided in theseby-Laws.

(26) None but the butchers, their assistants, and the Urban Officers attached to the slaughterhouse and those authorized shall be admitted within the premises during the process of slaughtering,skinning, or cutting up the carcases.

(27) All the offal, entrails, or other refuse left at the slaughter house by the butchers or theirassistants shall be disposed.

155AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(28) Skins, offal, entrails, or other refuse left at the slaughter house after the hours fixed by thesuperintendent without this officer’s sanction, shall be considered as abandoned, and shall become theproperty of the Urban Council, who may dispose of them as it shall think fit.

(29) The superintendent of the slaughter house or other person authorized as aforesaid shallkeep a register of all by him giving a description of the cattle and their brand marks, and the other particu-lars set forth in such form as shall be by the Urban Council, such register shall be accessible to thepublic at the office of the slaughter house between the house and 4 p.m except on Sundays and publicHolidays.

(30) It shall not lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher to slaughter any cattle (otherthan buffaloes), sheep, goat or pig without a special licence from the Chairman or contrary to the tenor ofsuch special licence. A fee as decided by the council by resolution for every such special licence shall becharged

(31) Every licensed butcher shall register at the Urban Office the names of the servants whomhe desires to employ slaughter house in his trade as butcher, and the Chairman may refuse to register anyparticular name or cancel the name those already registered. Such licensed butcher shall not employ orcontinue to employ any person who is not so registered name has been so cancelled.

(32) No person suffering from any skin disease, leprosy, or any infectious or contagious dis-ease shall be allowed within the slaughterhouse.

(33) It shall be lawful the superintendent of the slaughter-house or the Urban Veterinary sur-geon to forbid of any animals found to be diseased or otherwise unfit to be slaughter for human food, andwhether permit to slaughter has been seized and treated like animals affected with infectious or conta-gious diseases.

(34) No diseased cattle , sheep, goat or pig shall be brought to the slaughter house.

(35) (i). No person shall bring into the Urban Council limits the meat of any sheep, goat,cattle, pig or poultry slaughtered outside the limits of the Urban Council ;

Provide that the proceeding of this paragraph shall not apply to meat packed inhermetically sealed this

(ii). No place shall be used as a slaughter house within the Urban Council limits without alicence issued by Urban Council accordance with the section 128 of MunicipalCouncils Ordinance .Chairman or an Authorized Officer may issues ,refuse, stop orrevoke for that at his discretion

(iii). No person shall be allowed to slaughter any animals except a licensed butcher orspecial licence issued under the By-Law No. 30.

(36) No person shall sell or expose for sale within the limits of Urban Council

(i). The meat of any sheep, goat, cattle, pig or poultry slaughtered outside the limit ofUrban Council, or

(ii). Any meat(whether chilled, frozen, salted or smoked or otherwise preserved) importedinto the islands unless such meat has been inspected and passed as fit folk humanconsumption by the Urban Veterinary surgeon or an officer authorized in behalf by theChairman Provided that the preceding provisions of these by laws shall not apply toany meat sold in hermetically sealed tins

Tasks not to becarried out(31 –44)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016156A

(37) No person shall remove or permit, cause to be removed any meat of any animals from aUrban slaughter house any other place of slaughter to market or other place within the Limits of theUrban Council, unless the same shall be conveyed in a motor is constructed as to protect the said meateffectually from sun, dust and rain and screen it from public view. And no person shall expose or cause tobe exposed to public view any raw skin or skins or raw hides during carriage from place to place

(38) No permit shall be issued for the slaughter of cattle unless a licensed butcher produce acertificate in his favour in form A prescribed in the schedule to Branding sale and transfer of cattleOrdinance (Chapter 473), or unless the person wishing to sell the animal to the butcher appears with thebutcher before the superintendent of the slaughter-house and produces a similar certificate in his favourand signs a declaration he is prepared to sell to the butcher.

(39) It shall not be lawful for any licensed butcher or other person to produce any certificaterequired for the purpose of obtaining a permit for slaughter which certificate is not issued in respect ofthe animals produced or which is false in any particulars, or the entries in which do not correspond everyparticular with the description and brands of the animals for which it is produced. Any such animal shall atonce be removed by the person who has brought it, and shall not be admitted into the slaughter-housepremises.

(40) No person shall slaughter any animals for which a permit to slaughter has been issued untilall fees and expense of slaughterhouse have been paid and in case of non-payment the animals may bedealt with under by-Law No. 19.

(41) No person shall remove any meat, skin, entrails, or offal of any animals slaughtered at thepublic slaughter house without its being accompanied by a pass, in the form authorized by the Chairmanand signed by the Superintendent of the slaughter house or other officer appointed to issue such passes,

(42) No dogs shall be admitted into the slaughter house and no owner or person in charge of adog shall bring it into or allow it to enter any slaughter house. All dogs found there shall be made over tothe police to be dealt with as stray dogs.

(43) No licensed butcher or any of his registered servants or other person admitted inside aslaughter house shall make any noise or quarrel, or use insulting, abusive, or obscene language, and anyperson contravening this by-Laws may be turned out of the slaughter house by the superintendent or hisassistant.

(44) It shall not be lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher within the Limits of theUrban Council to slaughter any cattle unless he shall have obtained a special license from the Chairmanor an Authorized Officer, and any person obtaining such special license from the Chairman, and anyperson obtaining such special license shall not slaughter except at the place named in such license orunder any conditions there in set forth.

(45) Authorized officer who has delegated by authority shall have the power to do the inspectionto confirm the meat of any animal slaughtered in the public slaughter house only

(46) A fee as decided by the Urban council from time to time shall be paid before slaughtereach animal as specified in these By-Laws

(47) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

Function of theLocal Authority

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

157AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(48) The validity of every license issued to slaughter the animals under the provision of theseBy-Laws shall expire within seven days from date of issue.

(49) The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.

(50) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(51) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsis an offence.

(52) (i). Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within theUrban Council limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 153(2) in chapter 255of the Urban Council ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention of theseBy-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall beliable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(ii). Contravention or breach of this by-law No. 35(ii) in this part shall be punishable offenceand if convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction withinthe Urban Council limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 128(2) in Chapter255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in case of continued contravention ofthese By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shallbe liable to additional fine in terms of section 128(2)

(53) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

“Proper Authority “means the Chairman of the Urban Council or authorized officer

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the ordinance of Urban Council

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by Laws ofthe hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-chargeor Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under this pro-vision.

“Veterinary surgeon” means the veterinary Surgeon of Urban Council.

“Animal” means animals belonging to any kind of cattle, sheep and goats and pig

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation ofBy-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016158A

PART V — STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, MONITOR ANDCONTROL OF SALE OF MEAT WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, moni-tor and control of sale of meat within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by Chapter 201 ButchersOrdinance and the sub sections (9) (x) of 157 of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) ofUrban Councils Ordinance.

(4) If only the premises applied for is in conformity with the conditions set out below, theChairman or an Authorized Officer shall issue a licence on the application specified in schedule 01 toanybody to carry on a meat sales centre:-

(i) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered withcement or applied with rust proof metal sheets.

(ii) The premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall befinished off with cement or laid with tiles.

(iii) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room where meat is exhibited for sale. The area of the windows shall not be lessthan 1/15th of the floor area. However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shallnot be applicable

(iv) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height

(v) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level.

(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 metre.

(vii) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessarygradient to facilitate the flow of waste water.

(viii) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water drainingthrough the drains referred to in paragraph (vii) flowing to any public source of water,action shall be taken to drain off such waste water to a suction pit.

(ix) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.

(x) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat salecentre shall be made available action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales toground such waste material at least 0.5 metres deep in the ground or hand over suchwaste to a collection truck of the Urban Council in accordance with provisions decidedupon by the Council from time to time.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

159AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi) While sufficient lavatory facilities for the use of the persons working in the premisesshall be made available suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of afterthe use of the lavatory shall be supplied.

(xii) Every licensee of a meat stall cause at least one spittoon to be kept on the licensedpremises that those employed on the premises may have access to them

(xiii) Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on theoutside of this premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Meat Stall”legibly painted there in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

(xiv) Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause copy of these By-Laws relating to meat stallin Sinhala, English and Tamil to be framed and hung in a prominent place in the licencedpremises. He shall also keep on the premises a list of the names and addresses of allthe employees, including vendors of meat, so as to be at all times available forinspection

(xv) Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause the walls of every room forming part of themeat stall, except such parts as are covered with glazed tiles or are plastered in cement,to be lime-washed, and all the woodwork to be lime-washed or, if oil-painted, to bewashed with hot water and soap at least four times a year or at any other times orderedby the Chairman in writing

(5) At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash and cleanwith disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat, otherutensils and the places exhibiting the meat for sale.

(6) Provided that action is taken to transport meat in a vehicle or a box or any other utensil thatcould be securely closed to prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal, no person shalltransport any species of meat and after the transport of meat action shall be taken to wash by water withdisinfectant fluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in transporting meat.

(7) Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drainsin and around any licensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or saleof meat.

(8) Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

(9) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials after washingtheir bodies or bath when they are on duty at the license premises.

(10) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(11) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(12) (i). Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories. –

(a) biodegradable waste,

(b) glass ,

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016160A

(c) paper or paper based materials,

(d) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(e) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ,

(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or byproducts or other parts produced in the production line ,

(g) dangerous waste ,

And it shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see that they are put in separatecontainers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(ii). Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of wastemanagement launched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in themanner prescribed by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.

(13) The Chairman or Urban Chairman shall, on application made to him by the licensee of ameat stall, issue cards of registration free for the use of every person employed by such licensee intransporting meat from the slaughterhouse to the meat stall for sale

(14) Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep ample supply of drinking water at the licensedpremises

(15) Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep the licensed premises open every day except suchdays on which the Government of Srilanka/ the Chairman or an Authorized Officer requires to be closed.Further stall shall be opened from 07.00 a.m. to 07.00 p.m. it is not decided by the Urban Council

(16) No person shall use any other premises than a market for the purpose of selling meatwithout a valid licence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.

(17) No licensee of meat stall shall sell or expose for sale on the licensed premises any meatother than meat of animals slaughtered in a public slaughterhouse which is within the administrativelimits of Urban Council and which has been duly declared and proclaimed under section 21 of ButcherOrdinance (Chapter 201), or in a place appointed for the purpose by the proper Authority under section11 of the said Ordinance, or under a permit issued accordance with the section 14 of the said Ordinance.

The Urban Veterinary surgeon or any other officer Authorized by him cause the meat of animalsso slaughtered to be sealed with a seal to identify such meat.

(18) Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meatstall are stored in a deep freezer and the said deep freezer has been properly activated from the time ofstorage until the opening of the stall for sales on the following day, no species of meat left behind unsoldshall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.

(19) No person shall keep any animal or bird in the licensed premises on any pretext whatso-ever.

(20) No person shall spit within a meat stall except into a spittoon provided for the purpose.

(21) No person shall be allowed that sale of meat done by the visiting to place to place withinthe Urban council limits.

(22) No person shall sleep in any place of licensed meat stall

Tasks not to becarried out (16 –25)

161AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(23) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who hasrecently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing anybody who is suffer-ing from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report, shall notbe engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in theplace, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(24) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.

(25) Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no othergoods or clothes or mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

(26) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of meat kept for sale or displayed for sale inside the premises of any meat stall for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(27) In the event of the premises where any sale of meat is maintained under a licence issuedunder these By-Laws in this part any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this partthe Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demandinghim to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before aspecified date.

(28) Under the sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run sale of meat centre.

(29) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(30) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(31) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect thestandards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(32) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer

(33) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 26 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, theperiod of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days

(34) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Urban Chairman has the legal power to cancel thelicence issued for the place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 33 inthese By-Laws fails to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(35) The licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers

(36) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence

Function of theLocal Authority(26 - 27 )

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers(31 – 34)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation ofBy-Laws

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016162A

(37) Contravention or breach of any of these by-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of Laws, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of Laws which has the juris-diction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(38) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils.

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these by Lawsof the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager for the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this pro-vision

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business at the specified place.

“Meat stall or Meat sale centre” means any place where any kind of meat is kept for sale ordisplay it for sale or stored inside the place of any meat stall for sale.

“Meat “ means beef, mutton or Pork

Fines andpenalties

Interpretationand definition

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for meat stall within the area of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Meat Stall:-

2. Place of the Meat Stall:-

(i). Ward No.:-

(ii). Assessment No.:-

(iii).Name of the Road/Street:-

(iv).GN Division No. & Name:-

163AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

3. Name of the Applicant:-

(i).Full Name:-

(ii).Permanent Address:-

(iii).GN Division No. & Name:-

(iv).NIC No.:-

(v).Telephone No.:-

(vi).e-mail Address:-

4.(i).Date of Beginning the meat Stall

(ii).Name of the manager of the meat Stall:

(iii).Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

(i).Name of the Owner:

(ii).Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016164A

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

165AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

\……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Accountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional Head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

………………………………. …………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016166A

PART VI -STANDARD BY- LAWS IN RELATING TO FORMULATE, REGULARIZE, MONITOR ANDCONTROL OF SALE OF FISH WITHIN THE AREA OF AUTHORITY OF THE URBAN COUNCIL

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, moni-tor and control of sale of fish within the area of authority of the Urban Council

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Urban Council limit as per the section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Urban Councils by the sub sections(9) (x) of 157 of Urban Councils Ordinance, read with section 153 (1) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

(4) If only the premises applied for is in conformity with the conditions set out below, theChairman or Authorized officer shall issue a licence on the application specified in schedule 01 to any-body to carry on a fish sales centre:-

The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement orapplied with rust proof metal sheets.

(i) The premises where fish is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall befinished off with cement or laid with tiles.

(ii) The premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall befinished off with cement or laid with tiles.

(iii) Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room where fish is exhibited for sale. The area of the window shall not be lessthan 1/15th of the floor area. However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shallnot be applicable

(iv) Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height

(v) Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level.

(vi) The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves shall be at least 1metre.

(vii) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessarygradient to facilitate the flow of waste water.

(viii) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water drainingthrough the drains referred to in paragraph (vii) flowing to any public source of water,action shall be taken to drain off such waste water to a suction pit.

(ix) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall be closed to the air.

(x) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the fish salecentre shall be made available action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales toground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in the ground or hand over suchwaste to a collection truck of the Urban Council in accordance with provisions decidedupon by the Council from time to time.

Name ofBy-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactmentformaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

167AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi) While sufficient lavatory facilities for the use of the persons working in the premisesshall be made available suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of afterthe use of the lavatory shall be supplied.

(xii) Every licensee of a fish stall cause at least one spittoon to be kept on the licensedpremises that those employed on the premises may have access to them

(xiii) Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outsideof his premises a board with his name and the words “Licenced Fish Stall” legiblypainted there in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

(xiv) Every licensee of a fish stall shall cause copy of these by-Laws relating to fish stall inSinhala, English and Tamil to be framed and hung in a prominent place in the licensedpremises. He shall also keep on the premises a list of the name and addresses of allthe employees, including vendors of fish, so as to be at all times available for inspection

(xv) Every licensee of a fish stall shall cause the walls of every room forming part of thefish stall, except such parts as are covered with glazed tiles or are plastered in cement,to be lime-washed, and all the woodwork to be lime-washed or, if oil-painted, to bewashed with hot water and soap at least four times a year or at any other times orderedby the Chairman or an Authorized Officer in writing

(5) At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action shall be taken to wash and cleanwith disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, otherutensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale.

(6) Provided that action is taken to transport fish in a vehicle or a box or any other utensil thatcould be securely closed to prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal, no person shalltransport any species of fish and after the transport of fish action shall be taken to wash with disinfectantfluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in transporting fish.

(7) Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drainsin and around any licensed fish stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or saleof fish.

(8) Any licensed fish stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

(9) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are onduty at fish stall.

(10) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year

(11) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(12) (i). Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories. –

(a) biodegradable waste,

(b) glass ,

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016168A

(c) paper or paper based materials,

(d) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(e) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ,

(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or byproducts or other parts produced in the production line ,

(g) dangerous waste,

And it shall be the responsibilities of the licensee to see that they are put in separatecontainers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(ii). Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of wastemanagement launched by the Urban Council the final disposal shall be done in themanner prescribed by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer

(13) The Chairman or Urban Chairman shall, on application made to him by the licensee of afish stall, issue cards of registration free for the use of every person employed by such licensee intransporting fish for sale

(14) Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep ample supply of drinking water at the licensedpremises.

(15) Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep the licensed premises open every day except suchdays on which the Government of Srilanka/ the Chairman or an Authorized Officer requires to be closed.Further stall shall be opened from 07.00 a.m. to 07.00 p.m. ,if it is not to decide by the Urban Council

(16) No person shall use any other premises than a market for the purpose of selling fishwithout a valid licence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.

(17) Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed fishstall are stored in a deep freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time ofstorage until the opening of the stall for sales on the following day, no species of fish left behind unsoldshall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.

(18) No person shall keep any animal or bird in the licensed premises on any pretext whatso-ever.

(19) No person shall spit within a fish stall except into a spittoon provided for the purpose.

(20) No persons who sell fish with licence for hawking shall deposit waste of fish by the sidesof the road when selling such fish and they shall cause such waste to be disposed properly

(21) No person shall be allowed that sale of fish done by the visiting to place to place within theUrban council limits without a licence obtain from the Chairman or an Authorized Officer. No licenseeof a fish stall shall permit any person to transport to sale from licensed premises any fish except in aclosed vehicle or a closed basket, tin, or other suitable receptacle. He shall see that every such vehiclebasket, tin or other receptacle is at all-time kept clean and wholesome.

(22) No person shall sleep in any place of licensed fish stall.

Tasks not to becarried out(16 – 25)

169AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(23) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who hasrecently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing anybody who is suffer-ing from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report, shall notbe engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in theplace, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(24) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at a fish stall.

(25) Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of fish no othergoods or clothes or mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

(26) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of fish kept for sale or displayed for sale or inside the premises of any fish stall for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(27) In the event of the premises where any sale of fish is maintained under a licence issuedunder the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairmanor an Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accom-plish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(28) Under the Sub section 164(2) of Urban Councils Ordinance, the Secretary has the author-ity to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run sale of fish center.

(29) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Urban Council

(30) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(31) The Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(32) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer.

(33) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No 27 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman or an Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, theperiod of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.

(34) It shall be lawful for the Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for theplace when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 33 in these By-Laws fails toact as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(35) The licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman oran Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(36) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence

Functions of theLocal Authority(26 - 27 )

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permitprocedure ofinspection andpowers(31 – 34)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation ofBy-Laws

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016170A

(37) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and if con-victed after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Urban limits liable tothe penalties in terms of section 153(2) in Chapter 255 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. Further in caseof continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdic-tion, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 153(2)

(38) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the Local Au-thorities Elections Ordinance.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Council or any other officer delegated to carry out thepowers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Urban Council” means, the Urban Council constituted under the Ordinance of Urban Councils.

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under the provisions of these byLaws of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager for the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under this pro-vision

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business at the specified place.

“Fish stall or Fish sale centre” means place where any kind of fish is kept for sale or display itfor sale or stored in inside the place of any fish stall for sale.

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Fish stall within the area of authority of Urban Council

1. Name of the Fish Stall:-

2. Place of the Fish Stall:-

(i). Ward No.:-

(ii). Assessment No.:-

(iii). Name of the Road/Street:-

(iv). GN Division No. & Name:-

171AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

3. Name of the Applicant:-

(i). Full Name:-

(ii). Permanent Address:-

(iii). GN Division No. & Name:-

(iv). NIC No.:-

(v). Telephone No.:-

(vi). e-mail Address:-

4.(i). Date of Beginning the fish Stall

(ii). Name of the manager of the fish Stall:

(iii). Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,

(i). Name of the Owner:

(ii). Address:-

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:

Date:

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the ByLaw. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..

DateSignature of Applicant

For office use

For report as follows

………………………………

Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016172A

For the report of assessment section

Ward:…………………………Assessment No:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………………….…………………………………………

Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i). Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii). Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii). Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateRevenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePublic Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health :

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateMedical Officer of Health

173AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… DateChief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

DateAccountant

Approved/Not Approved

……………………………….…………………………………………

DateChairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

…………………..…………………………

DateSectional Head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Urban Council Chairman

……………………………….…………………………………………DateSecretary/ Accountant

Signed

……………………………….………………………………………… Date Chairman/Authorized Officer

02-494

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.