PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BATTICALOA YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN’SASSOCIATION (INCORPORATION)

————————

[Bill No. 247]

————————

Presented by Hon. Pon. Selvarasa M. P. for Batticaloa Districton 06th June, 2013

(Published in the Gazette on May 27, 2013)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

to incorporate the Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s Association

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

2—PL 007330—850 (06/2013)

————————

1Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’sAssociation (Incorporation)

2—PL 007189— 75 (04/2013)

Preamble.

Short title.

5

10

15

20

25

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BATTICALOA YOUNG MEN’SCHRISTIAN’S ASSOCIATION

WHEREAS a Association called and known as the “YoungMen’s Christian’s Association of Batticaloa” has heretoforebeen established at Batticalo for the purpose of achiving theseveral objects and effectually carring out and transactingall matters connected with the said association according tothe rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to beincorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Batticaloa Young Men’sChristian’s Association (Incorporation) Act, No. of 2013.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members ofthe Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s Association ofBatticaloa (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”)or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporationhereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafterreferred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual successionunder the name and style of the Batticaloa YoungMen’s Christian’s Association and by that name maysue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authorityto have and use a common seal and alter the same atits pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted is declared to be the promotion of thespiritual,intellectual, social and physical welfare of all theChildren, Youth and general public of Batticaloa.

Incorporationof the YoungMen’sChristian’sAssociationof Batticaloa.

Generalobjects of theCorporation.

2Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’sAssociation (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

30

4.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever, as are necessary and desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation, or any oneof them, including the power to open, operate and closebank accounts, to borrow or raise money, with or withoutsecurity, to receive or collect grants and donations, to investits funds, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers andservants required for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to therules of the Corporation, be administered by a Board ofDirectors consisting of such number of members as may beprovided for rules made in that behalf and elected inaccordance therewith.

(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallbe the members of the Board of Directors holding office onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the Corporation andby the majority of not less than three-fourths of theActive Members of the Corporation present and voting, tomake rules, not inconsistant with the provision of this Act,or any other written law, for the management of the affairs ofthe Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) The rules of the Association in force on the date ofcommencement of this Act, in so far as they are notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any otherwritten law, shall be deemed to be rules made by theCorporation under this Act.

(3) Any rule made y the Corportion may be amended orrescinded in like manner as a rule may by made undersubsection (1).

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

Generalpowers of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

35

3Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’sAssociation (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

30

(4) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject otthe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Association existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Actshall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and alldebts due to and subscriptions and contributions payableto, the Association on that date shall be paid to theCorporation for the purposes of this Act.

8.The Corporation shall be able and capable inlaw to acquire and hold any property, movable andimmovable, which may become vested in it by virtue of anypurchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise,and all such property shall be held by the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of theCorporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

9.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of suchnumber of members as may be provided for in the rules ofthe Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrumentin token of their presence, and such signing shall beindependent of the signing of any person as a witness.

10.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons, except such as arementioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or underthem.

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Seal of theCorporation.

Sinhala textto prevail inthe event ofinconsistency.

4Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’sAssociation (Incorporation)

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.