PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE (AMENDMENT)

————————

————————

Presented by the Minister of Finance and Mass Mediaon 07th of August, 2018

(Published in the Gazette on June 29, 2018)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

to amend the Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13 of 2006

A

BILL

————————

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

[Bill No. 261]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 22 of the Economic Service Charge Act, No. 13of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of thesection as amended is to specify the base for charging the service charge for importationof motor vehicles.

Clause 3 : This clause amends Schedule IV of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to specify the service charge on wholesale or retail salesof petrol, diesel, and kerosene.

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)1

5

10

15

L.D.—O. 9/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGEACT, NO.13 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Economic Service Charge(Amendment) Act, No. of 2018.

2.Section 2 of the Economic Service Charge Act, No 13of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)is hereby amended in subsection (1) thereof as follows:—

(1)in paragraph (a) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words “for that relevent quarter;and”, of the words “for that relevant quarter;”;

(2)in paragraph (b) of that subsection—

(a)by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (ii)thereof, for the words “gold or other preciousmetal; or”, of the words “gold or other preciousmetal;”;and

(b)by the repeal of sub-paragraph (iii) thereof,and the substitution therefor of thefollowing:—

“(iii)on or after April 1, 2017, but prior tothe date of commencement of thisAct in respect of every consignmentof imports of motor vehicles; or”;

Short title.

Amendmentof section 2of Act, No 13of 2006.

20

2Economic Service Charge (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

(3)by the addition, immediately after sub-paragraph(iii) thereof, of the following new sub-paragraph:—

“(iv)on or after the date of commencement ofthis Act in respect of every consignment ofimports of motor vehicles, which are notliable for excise duty imposed under theExcise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of1989; and”; and

(4)by the addition, immediately after sub-paragraph(b) thereof, of the following new sub-paragraph:—

“(c)on or after the date of commencement ofthis Act, on the amount of excise dutyimposed under the Excise (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 in respectof every consignment of imports of motorvehicles, which are liable for excise duty,”.

3. (1) Schedule IV to the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:—

(a)in the item 1 of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words “partnership of the retail”, of the words“partnership from the wholesale or retail” ; and

(b)in the item 2 of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words “partnership from the retail”, of thewords “partnership from the wholesale or retail”.

(2) The amendments made to the principal enactment bythis section, shall be deemed to have come into operation onApril 1, 2017.

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Amendmentof ScheduleIV of theprincipalenactment.

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)3

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING