==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1959$6 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 21 jeks i÷od - 2016'03'21

No. 1959/6 - MONDAY MARCH 21, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Rules

1. These Rules shall be cited as the Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka, No. 01 of 2014.

2.The Council shall decide the place, where the Registered Office of the Institute shall bemaintained.The registered office of the Institute shall normally be situated in the District of Colombobut the Council shall reserve the power to shift the registered office to any other district in Sri Lanka,by a decision of the Council.

3.The membership of the Institute shall consist of Corporate Members, Non-CorporateMembers and Foreign Members.

4. (1) Corporate Members of the Institute shall be those Members who hold the title of“Fellow” and “Members”.

(2) Applicants seeking validation as Corporate Members shall hold-

(a) a B.Sc. special degree in Geology ; or

(b) a B.Sc. general degree with geoscience as a subject, Master’s (M) level (MSc or

MPhil) or Doctorate (D) level in the field of geosciences awarded by a recognized

Title

Registered Office

Membership

Corporate Members

THE INSTITUTE OF GEOLOGY, SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)

ACT, No. 3 OF 2014

RULES made by the Institute of Geology by virtue of the powers vested in it by section 7 of the institute of Geology, SriLanka (Incorporation) Act, No.3 of 2014 .

HITIHAMI MUDIYANSELAGE RANJITH PREMASIRI,

General Secretary,Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka.

Colombo,1st of March, 2016.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20162A

university or institution of higher education approved by University GrantsCommission of Sri Lanka or in any cognitive subjects according to Sri LankaQualification Framework (SLQF) as set out in the Schedule A to these Rules.

(3) The Council will not accept applications for validation as a Corporate Member from aprofessional who do not hold a recognised degree or equivalent qualifications.

(4) In the event of a dispute relating to the cognate subjects, the determination of the Councilshall be final.

(5) As a guide to applicants, and based on past experience of evaluating applications forvalidation, the Institute has set out in the Schedule to these rules, guidance concerning the relationshipsbetween first degree and post-graduation experience that has typically enabled applicants to successfullydemonstrate the required competencies. This should be considered as general guidance as to the minimumrelevant experience needed for eligibility to apply.

(6) A list of those candidates whom the Council has decided as eligible for admission asCorporate Member (Fellow or Member) under Section 4.2 of Rules and Regulations shall be publishedand circulated to all Corporate Members. After the lapse of two (2) weeks from the date of suchpublication, during which time the Secretary will be prepared to receive for report to the Council,communications respecting the qualifications or character of any candidate, the Council if satisfied thathe is a fit and proper person to become a Fellow or a Member shall declare the candidate admitted.

(7) Every Corporate Member after admission shall if so desires, shall at the first generalmeeting at which the Member attends, be introduced by the President or Chairman at such meeting.

5. Every person seeking admission as a Fellow shall :-

(i) be more than 45 years of age;

(ii) be a member or a person who has fulfilled the conditions and qualifications as set

out in the Schedule A to these Rules, as are necessary to be admitted to the grade of“Member; and

(iii) have either-

(a) a minimum of six (06) years experience in the field of Geology or a cognate

subject as specified in the Schedule Ato these Rules,and have rendered sufficientcontribution, to the Institute for its upliftment, in a manner recognized andacceptable to the Council; or

(b) knowledge of Geology and has acquired such eminence in the profession, as in

the opinion of the Council qualifies such person to be admitted as a Fellow.

6. Every person seeking admission to the grade of Member shall :-

(i) be more than 30 years of age; and

(ii) have attained such standards, requirements and has a relevant degree and education

with sufficient professional training and practical experience as set out in the Scheduleto these Rules;and

Fellows

Members

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20163A

(iii) be a person, who for the time being is a Member for three years in the grade of

Associate Member of the Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka, who by virtue of suchmembership is entitled to be admitted to the grade of Member, by formal applicationand a selection procedure.

7. (1) Honorary Fellows, Associate Members, Licentiates, Students and Institutional Membersshall be non-corporate members and the eligibility and other requirement for admission to thesegrades shall be as described in these Rules.

(2) Non-Corporate members shall not be entitled to attend or vote at General Meetingsof the Institute or to requisition or sign in requisitioning any General Meeting but shall be entitled toserve as a member of any special committee

8. (1) The Council shall have the power to admit distinguished and eminent persons asHonorary Member, provided that the persons so admitted shall not exceed three Honorary Fellows atany one time.

(2) No person shall have the right to apply for admission to the grade of Honorary member.The Council shall consider only nominations made for the grade of Honorary member by corporatemembers of the Institute. The Council shall by a vote of at least two thirds of the full membership ofthe Council, elect persons to the grade of Honorary member.

9. Every person seeking admission to the grade of Associate Member shall :-

(i) have three (3) years after B.Sc. Special Degree in Geology accredited by Levels

3, 4, 5 and 6 of Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) or five (5) years afterB.Sc. General Degree in geosciences accredited by Levels 3, 4 and 5 of Sri LankaQualification Framework (SLQF) in which one third (33%) of level 3 and 4 and50% of level 5 of the course content is made up of geoscience or a cognate subjectsand(ii) have sufficient training in the field of geoscience. as is determined by the Council

from time to time.

10. Every person seeking admission to the grade of Licentiate Member shall-

(i) have a B.Sc. Special Degree in Geology accredited by Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Sri

Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) or two (2) years after BSc. General Degreein geosciences accredited by Levels 3, 4 and 5 of Sri Lanka QualificationFramework (SLQF) in which one third (33%) of level 3 and 4 and 50% of level 5of the course content is made up of geoscience subjects and

(ii) have passed such examinations of the Institute or such other examinations as may

be prescribed or approved by the Council for the purpose, on the recommendationof the Educational Committee.

11.Every person seeking admission to the grade of Student Member should be following acourse of study in Geology or cognate subjects approved by the Council for the purpose, on therecommendation of the Educational Committee.

12. (1) Foreign Ordinary Members shall be Foreign Members and the qualifications andstandards and competence of Foreign Members shall be as described in these Rules.

Non-CorporateMembers

Honorary members

Associate Members

Student Members

Foreign Members

Licentiate member

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20164A

(2) Foreign Institutional Members in terms of Section 13, shall be Foreign Members

13. (1 )The Council may, by resolution of the Council, admit any Firm, Company, Association,Body or Institution endorsing the general objects of the Institute and supporting the work of the Institute,as an Institutional Member of the Institute. They in turn shall be required to provide a Certificate ofAuthorization (COA) pledging to carry out relevant geoscience duties to the general public.

(2) The Council has the right to revoke the COA if the respective, Firm, Company, Association,Body or Institution, inadvertently, purposefully, or erroneously contribute to the profession ofgeoscience.

(3) The Council may at any time, for cause shown, declare that any Firm, Company,Association, Body or Institution admitted as an Institutional Member under the preceding paragraph,shall no longer be an Institutional Member and there upon such Firm, Company, Association, Body orInstitution shall forthwith cease to be an Institutional Member.

14.(1) Members who are in the grades of Corporate Member (Member and Fellow) can applyfor the status of Chartered Geologist and the procedure and the requirement as prescribed in the ScheduleB of the application procedure. Chartered Geologist shall be entitled to take and use the style after theirnames, as CGeol. The Member has to submit a Professional Review Report along with the application atthe time of application (Schedule C).

(2) To become eligible to apply as Chartered Geologist, the applicant should have completedat least 3 years membership as a Corporate Member.

(3) The evaluation for a Chartered Geologist is done as provided in Schedule B.

(4) Chartered Geologists will be provided with a professional seal of the Institute which he/she shall use to endorse documents, reports, statements and any other written communications. Themember should place his original signature within the stamp of the seal indicating his knowledge on thedocuments, reports, statements and any other communication. The member is authorized to sign onlysuch items which has been his own or thoroughly reviewed by or directly supervised by the member.

(5) A Chartered Geologist violating the sections above is deemed to go through the Admissionand Ethical Practices Committee and if found guilty will face either to pay a fine or revoke the membershipand the seal for a period decided by the Committee for a maximum of two years. See Schedule D ofCode of ethics of the Institute.

15. (1) Members of the Institute in the following grades shall be entitled to take and use thestyle after their names, as mentioned below:

Chartered Geologist-CGeol.Honorary Fellows-FIGSL (Hony.)Fellows-FIGSLMembers-MIGSLAssociate Member-AMIGSLLicentiate Member- LIGSLStudent member-no style

(2) No person or body of persons shall take or use the initials or styles “CGeol.”, “FIGSL”,“FIGSL (Hony)”, “MIGSL”, “AMIGSL” or “LIGSL”, or use the same as the name or part of the name inany personal communication, book, journal or other publication. Every Corporate Member whose nameappears on the Register of Chartered Geologist is entitled to describe himself as a Chartered Geologist

InstitutionalMembers

CharteredGeologist

Use of letters todenote grades

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20165A

and in using that description after his name shall place it before the designation of the class to whichhe belongs stated in accordance with the following abbreviated forms, namely CGeol., FIGSL (SriLanka), or CGeol., MIGSL(Sri Lanka).

16. (1) No public statements or any other sensitive statements related to geoscience shallbe disclosed unless with endorsement of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee. Thereafter,the statements could be rated either as preliminary, semi detailed and detailed assessment or confirmedresults before disclosing it to the general public.

(2) Any member who is in arrears of membership fees for a period of three years fromthe date on which such payment was due, shall ipso facto cease to be a Member of the Institute butsuch member shall be entitled to be re admitted to the same grade of his membership upon paymentof the current years membership together with all arrears.

(3) Every admission or transfer to the Class of Member shall be in a form as the Councilmay prescribe. This proposal shall be supported by at least 2 Corporate Members, certifying thatthey recommend the admission of the candidate from personal knowledge of him and that hisapplication is worthy of consideration. Such proposal shall be delivered to the Secretary who shallsubmit it to the Council for determination whether the candidate is suitable for admission to theProfessional Review Examination in accordance with the Rules and Regulations in force.

17. (1) The Council shall have the power to expel from Membership, suspend Membershipfor a period, reprimand or admonish a Member who has been found guilty of misconduct or of unethicalpractice after due inquiry conducted by the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee and providedthat at least two third of the full Membership of the Council has voted in favour of such disciplinaryaction( Schedule D).

(2) A Member or a Corporate Member under a legal liability may practice his professionwith the consent of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee. If the Member receives a prisonsentence from any court of law, membership will be automatically revoked. However, it may bereinstated after a period of two years from the completion of his sentence. Any member whosemembership is terminated or suspended or who has been expelled from membership shall returnforthwith to the Council any certificate of membership issued to him and shall further not be entitledto use any qualifications or any styles of the Institute, unless the Council otherwise decides.

18.Every Corporate Member, every Associate Member and every Licentiate Member whohas been admitted to respective membership shall receive an appropriate certificate in English, or ifotherwise preferred, in Tamil or Sinhala. This certificate will remain the property of the Institute andin the event of the holder ceasing to be a Member, shall on request be returned to the Institute.

19. (1) Membership fees shall be as follows :-

(i) Members in the grade of Chartered Geologists shall pay a sum of SLR.I0,000.00

as their annual subscription.

(ii) Members in the grade of Fellow shall pay a sum of SLR.7,500.00 as their annual

subscription.

(iii) Members in the grade of Member shall pay a sum of SLR.7,500.00 as their annual

subscription.

(iv) Members in the grade of Associate Member shall pay a sum of SLR.3,000.00 as

their annual subscription.

Rules governing thegrades

Expulsion andsuspension, frommembership

Certificates

Membership Fees

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20166A

(v) Members in the grade of Licentiates/student member shall pay a sum of

SLR.2,OOO.00 as their annual subscription.

(vi) Honorary Fellows are not obliged to pay any subscription fee.

(vii) Foreign Ordinary Members and Foreign Industrial Members shall pay US$ 100.00

and US$ 2,000.00 respectively as their annual subscription.

(viii) Institutional Members shall pay a sum of SLR 20,000.00 as their annual subscription.

(2) In addition to the membership fee prescribed in sub paragraph (1) of this rule, newapplicants for admission to the Institute shall pay the following Processing Fees:

Fellow-SLR 2,000.00Member-SLR 2,000.00Associate Member-SLR 1,000.00Licentiate Member-SLR 1,000.00Student Member-SLR500.00

(3) Annual subscription fees for Corporate and Non-corporate Members of the Instituteshall be paid on or before 30th April of preceding year.

(4) The above rates do not include any taxes or rates imposed by the Government.

(5) In the event an application for admission is not accepted for processing by the Council,the processing fee attached to the application shall be refunded to the applicant.

(6) No processing fee shall be payable by any member, other than a student member.

(7) Members, who are obliged to pay subscription fees under these rules, shall have torenew their membership for each new calendar year by paying the subscription fee before the 30th dayof April of each such calendar year.

(8) Members of the Institute who forfeit their membership by; a decision of the Council,resignation or for any other reason shall not be entitled to claim a refund of any subscription, application,or transfer fee they have paid to the Institute, during their period of membership.

20.The General Secretary of the Institute shall maintain a register of members giving theirnames, grade of membership, permanent addresses, date on which membership was granted, date onwhich a person ceased to be a member and any other relevant information as the General Secretary mayconsider necessary.

21. (l)The Institute shall have a Council consisting of:

(i) the President (I), the Vice President (I), the General Secretary (1) the treasurer (1),

the Editor (1), the Chairman of the Adrnission and Ethical Practices· Committee (1)and the Chairman of the Educational Committee (I), all of whom shall be elected atthe Annual General Meeting;

(ii) three (3) additional members all of whom shall also be elected at the Annual General

Meeting; and

(iii) Past President (1) of the previous Council shall serve as Council member

MembershipRegister

Composition ofthe Council

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20167A

(2) The President, the Vice President the General Secretary, the Treasurer, the Editor, theChairman of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee and the Chairman of the EducationalCommittee, all of whom shall have 3 years of experience in serving Councilor any National body/Society recognized by IGSL to be elected to the Council.

(3) The Council of the Institute holding office for the time being shall continue to functionas the Council of the Institute until a new Council is constituted in accordance with these rules.

(4) All members of the Council shall serve in an honorary capacity.

(5) Council shall meet at least once in every two months and the quorum for any suchmeet shall be five (5) members. Notice of such Council meeting indicating the Agenda shall beprovided by the Secretary in writing to every Council member at least 14 days before the date of themeeting.

(6) Council Meetings shall be convened by the General Secretary.

(7) Where any member of the Council does not attend three consecutive meetings of theCouncil without informing in writing the reason for such absence and such member does not attendthe next meeting of the Council, even after the General Secretary has specially written to such memberrequesting him to attend such meeting, he shall be deemed to have vacated his membership in theCouncil.

(8) Any person who the President considers should serve the Council in an ad hoc mannerin view of his eminence in the geosciences and related fields, may be invited by the President toparticipate in meetings of the Council. Such person shall have the restricted rights to participate inthe activities of the Council and shall not have the right to vote.

(9) With the consent of the President such ad hoc member could participate in meetingsthrough the electronic media from any part of the world as and when the necessity arises.

(10) All members except President and Secretary of the Council shall serve for one yearin the first instance. As decided by the majority of the general body, others may be eligible for re-election for the same position for a further period of two years only. The President shall not beeligible for re-election after serving for three years.

(11) Candidates for election to the council must be proposed and seconded by votingmembers at the Annual General Meeting.

(12) Any Member may tender his/her resignation from the Council by writing to thePresident, and such resignation shall not be operative until it is accepted by the Council at one of itsmeeting. The President may tender his resignation to the Secretary. (Vice President of the Councilshall be responsible for continuation in the following year of work initiated for the current year

(13) The Council shall be empowered to co-opt members to fill vacancies in the Committeeor to act for elected officials who are temporarily not available.

(14) The Council shall submit an Annual Report of the Institute and a duly audited financialstatement to the Annual General Meeting

22. (1) The administration and management of the affairs of the Institute shall be vested inthe Council.

Powers of the Council

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20168A

(2) The Council shall have the authority to exercise all its powers to carry out thefollowing duties and responsibilities-

(i) the appointment, allocation of duties, suspension and dismissal of employees of the

Institute;

(ii) specify such duties of various Committees of the Institute as are mentioned in these

rules, delegation of powers to such Committees as are necessary and the withdrawalof such powers;

(iii) decide on the recommendations made to the Council by such Committees, in the

exercise of the powers delegated to such Committees by the Council;

(iv) invite persons not being members of the Council to serve in such Committees;

(v) the filling of vacancies that may arise in the Council or in any Committee appointed

under these rules;

(vi) appointment of qualified auditors to examine accounts of the Institute and present

their duly audited and certified Annual Statement of Accounts at the Annual GeneralMeeting and to other Government Institutions;

(vii) organizing and giving of instructions to office-bearers in regard to implementation

of programs, in accordance with the objects of the Institute;

(viii) interpretation and clarification of the Institute’s rules and regulations and deciding

on matters provided for in the rules and regulations;

(ix) when amendments, revisions or deletions of the rules and regulations are necessary,

the determination on such matters and presenting them for approval at a GeneralMeeting.

(x) decide on the dates, times and venues for the holding of Annual General Meetings,

special General Meetings and General Meetings;

(xi) establishment, control and maintenance of the registered office of the Institute;

(xii) organization of lectures, talks, seminars and conferences both at international and

national level;

(xiii) printing and publishing of books, magazines and other literature on geology and

allied subjects; and

(xiv) generally do all other things which in the opinion of the Council are necessary or

conducive or incidental to, the attainment of the objects of the Institute;

23.(1) The President shall:

(i) preside at all meetings of the Council, the Annual General Meeting and Special

General Meetings of the Institute;

(ii) place before the General Meetings the decisions of the Council;

(iii) supervise and direct the office-bearers in the proper functioning of the Institute;

and

The President

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20169A

(iv) act on behalf of the Council in matters of urgency and communicate the actions

taken to the Council at its next meeting;

(2) In the absence of the President, the Vice President and in the absence of both thePresident and the Vice President, a member elected from the Council, shall preside and conduct themeetings of the Council and of the General body.

24. (1)The General Secretary shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Institute and shallhave powers, responsibilities and duties conferred on, or assigned to him, by the Council.

(2) His special duties and responsibilities shall be:-

(i) to summon meetings of the Council and the Annual General Meeting of the

Institute;

(ii) to summon meetings of various Committees of the Institute, at the direction of

the President;

(iii) to summon Special General Meetings of the Institute on the direction of the

President or at the written request of not less than six (6) members of the Council; and

(iv) to sign documents on behalf of the Council.

(3) In the absence of the General Secretary, the Council member appointed by the majorityvote shall perform and discharge the responsibilities and duties vested in the General Secretary.

25. (l)The Treasurer shall, subject to the direction of the Council, be responsible for thecollection, the safe custody and disbursement of all monies of the Institute.

(2) Shall maintain proper accounts of all monies received and spent, keep inventeriesand documents of all equpiment received and disposed and shall make available to the Council suchaccount books; receipts and documents, when called for.

(3) Shall invest the monies of the Institute as directed by the Council.

(4) Shall ensure that the annual accounts of the Institute are duly audited and certified bythe auditors and submit such accounts at the Annual General Meeting for adoption. Such accountsshall also be made available for inspection to the membership at least one week before the date of theAnnual General Meeting.

26. The Editor shall:-

(a) be responsible for the publication of the official Journal of the Institute and such

other publications as may be decided by the Council;

(b) compile Newsletters and other publications at such intervals of time as may be

decided by the Council.

27. (1) There shall be Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee and an EducationalCommittee and such other Committees as may be deemed necessary by the Council.

(2) The Council shall at its first meeting after election, appoint an Admission and EthicalPractices Committee and an Educational Committee.

The GeneralSecretary

The Treasurer

The Editor

The Admissions andEthical PracticesCommittee

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.201610A

(3) The Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee shall consist of seven (07) CorporateMembers of whom two members shall be members of the outgoing Committee, appointed at its firstmeeting after election.

(4) The Admission and Ethical Practices Committee appointed by the Council at its first meetingafter electoin shall comprise of : -

(i) the Chairman elected at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with rule 6(i)

(ii) Secretary of the Institute who shall function as an ex-officio member;

(iii) The Chairman of the Educational Committee, who shall also function as an ex-

officio member; and

(iv) Four (4) other corporate members of whom at least two (2) members shall be

members of the outgoing committee.

(5) The Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee shall exercise and discharge thefollowing powers and functions:-

(i) consider all applications for membership of the Institute, other than for Institutional

Membership, interview such applicants and make recommendations in writing to theCouncil on such application.

(ii) make recommendations from time to time to the Council on the substance or form

of ethical practices which are deemed to be right and proper for the members of theInstitute for the due practice of the profession of geology.

(iii) Inquire into and make recommendations to the Council on all matters unethical and/

or disciplinary in nature, referred to it by the Council.

(6) The Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee shall meet within . one month of itsappointment and thereafter once in every three (3) months. The quorum for any such meeting shall befour (4).

(7) Any member of the Admissions and Ethical Practices Committee, not being an ex-officiomember absenting himself from three consecutive meeting of the committee without informing inwriting his inability to attend such meetings, shall be deemed to have vacated his membership in theCommittee.

28. (1) The Educational and Professional Committee shall consist of seven (07) CorporateMembers, appointed at its first meeting after election.

(2) The Educational Committee appointed by the Council at its first meeting after electionshall comprise

(i) the Chairman elected at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with rule 6

(ii) General Secretary of the Institute who shall function as an ex-officio member;

(iii) The Chairman of the Admission and Ethical Practices Committee, who shall also

function as an ex-officio member; and

EducationalCommittee

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.201611A

(iv) Four (4) other corporate members of whom at least two (2) members shall be

members of the outgoing committee.

(3) The Educational Committee shall exercise and discharge, the following powers andfunctions-

(i) promote the education of geology at all levels;

(ii) conduct or provide for the conduct of examinations for the award of diplomas,

certificates and other distinctions in such branches of geology as the Institutemay from time to time deem necessary and prescribe, approve or provide forcourses of study in respect of such examinations;

(iii) recommend names to the Council to fill any vacancies that may arise from time to

time, in the Educational Committee, having regard to the provisions of subparagraph (i) of this rule.

(iv) co-opt with the approval of the Council additional members (corporate or non-

corporate) for the purpose of effectively carrying out its powers and functions:provided that such co-opted members shall not have the right to vote at meetingsof the Committee and they may also be excluded from the deliberations or part ofthe deliberations of a meeting if such exclusion is deemed fit in the opinion of theCommittee.

(v) Recommend to the Council on-all matters concerning the courses of study and

examinations conducted, sponsored or approved by the Institute, including theappointment, suspension, dismissal of lecturers, examiners, students, reprimandingcandidates and other personnel associated with such courses of study andexaminations.

(vi) recommend to the Council students eligible for the award of educational

qualifications, academic distinctions and other awards;

(vii) submit an annual report to the Council of its activities during the preceding year

by such date as may be determined by the Council;

(viii) frame and revise when necessary, regulations governing the courses of study and

the examinations of the Institute; and

(ix) subject to the approval of the Council decide on the utilization of the funds of the

Institute for the purposes of the Educational Committee.

(4) The Educational Committee shall meet within one month of its appointment andthereafter once in every three months. The quorum for any such meeting shall be four (4)

(5) Any member of the Educational Committee, not being an ex-officio member absentinghimself from three consecutive meeting of the committee without informing in writing his inabilityto attend such meetings, shall be deemed to have vacated his membership in the Committee.

29. (1) All General Meetings shall only be open to corporate members and the quorum forany such meeting shall be one third plus one (1) of members.

(2) The Annual General Meeting shall be held before the 30th day of April each year, on adate to be determined by the Council.

General Meetings

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.201612A

(3) At least fourteen (14) days’ notice shall be given to the members for the Annual GeneralMeeting.

(4) Where due to unavoidable circumstances the Annual General Meeting could not be heldon the day fixed thereof, the Council shall have the power to postpone such meeting to a date not laterthan one month from the date for which such meeting was fixed.

(5) The office-bearers of the Council, the members of the Council and the auditor shall beelected at the Annual General Meeting.

(6) At the Annual General Meeting the General Secretary shall present the Annual Reportand the Minutes of the Annual General Meeting of the preceding year and the Treasurer shall present thestatement of accounts of the preceding year duly audited by the auditors.

30. A Special General Meeting may be summoned by the General Secretary on the directionof the President or at the written request of a minimum of twenty five (25) Corporate Members statingdearly the purpose for which the meeting is called for. No business other than that specified in thenotice summoning such meeting, shall be transacted at such meeting. Such notice shall be sent to everyCorporate Member giving at least seven (7) days’ notice thereof.

31.Any resolution that the members wish to present to a General Meeting shall be forwardedto the Council through the General Secretary at least fourteen (14) days before such meeting and theCouncil shall have the right to decide upon such resolutions that may be selected for presentation to theGeneral Meeting from amongst those that were forwarded to the Council.

32. (1) Moneys received by the Institute by way of subscription fees, donations from localor foreign Institutions or persons, grants from the Government of Sri Lanka, loans obtained from anysource whether local or foreign for the purposes of the realization of the objects of the Institute andincome received from the movable and immovable properties of the Institute, shall be considered as thefunds of the Institute.

(2) The responsibility for receiving such moneys, their custody and disbursement shall vestin the Treasurer, under the direction of the Council.

(3) All monies received by the Institute shall be deposited in any approved bank or banks orin such savings accounts, fixed deposits, Insurance Company or other Financial Institution, as may beapproved by the Council, in favour of the “Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka” and cheques or otherinstrument for the withdrawal of such monies shall be signed by the Treasurer and either General Secretaryor President.

(4) The Institute may with the approval of the appropriate authority deposit any moneyreceived in foreign currency, drafts, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer or otherwise in any Non-ResidentForeign Currency Account or in any bank abroad. Provided that where the Treasurer reports of thenecessity to transfer any sums of money from any such Bank, Insurance Company, Finance Company orother Financial Institution to any other branch of such Bank, Insurance Company, Finance Company orother Financial Institution the council shall have the power to outhorize such transfer, to nominatepersons to sign cheques or other instuments and to issue orders relating to the deposits of such moneys.

(5) At the Annual General Meetings the Treasurer shall, with the approval of the Councilpresent the Annual Statement of Accounts duly audited and certified by the auditors and the AnnualGeneral Meeting shall appoint a Committee comprising of three persons to analyze and study theAuditor’s Report and the said Annual Statement of Accounts. The said Committee shall have the powerto obtain, through the Treasurer, all relevant information relating to the reports and the Annual Statement

Special GeneralMeetings

Resolutions

Control of Funds

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.201613A

of Accounts and shall submit its recommendation thereon to the Council for necessary action, withinone month from the date of the said Annual General Meeting.

33. (1) The accounts of the Institute shall be audited by Auditor general or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor General.

34.In the event of any action being filed in Court against the Institute, the President and theGeneral Secretary shall be entitled to exercise, perform and discharge all necessary powers, dutiesand functions and to appear on behalf of the Institute, they shall have the power to delegate suchpowers, with the connivance of the Council, to another member of the Council.

35. (1) The rules of the Institute shall not be revised, rescinded or amended except at GeneralMeeting convened for the purpose and on the vote of not less than two-third of the Corporate Memberspresent and voting.

(2) Written notice of the proposed revisions, amendments and deletions must be forwardedno later than two weeks prior to such General Meeting, to the Council through the General Secretary.

(3) The amendments,revisions and deletions to these rulesas-approved by the Council,shall be proposed at the Special General Meeting by the General Secretary or in his absence by theperson presiding at such meeting.

36. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these rules -

“ Institute” means the Institute of Geology called and known as the “Institute of

Geology, Sri Lanka”, and incorporated by the Institute of Geology, Sri Lanka,(Incorporation) Act, No. 3 of 2014;

“Council” means the Council of the Institute entrusted with the management and

administration of the affairs of the institute, by Subsection (1) of Section 5 ;

“Geologist” means an individual who is engaged in the practice of ‘Geoscience or

Cognitive subjects’;

“geoscience or a cognitive subject”means all subjects generally accepted as relating

to Geology such as Physical Geology, Crystallography, Mineralogy, Petrology,Hydrogeology, Photogeology, Structural & Field Geology, Geophysics,Geochemistry, Engineering Geology, Environmental Geology, Isotope Geology,Petroleum Geology, Marine Geology, Gemmology, Economic Geology, MineralExploration, Palaeontology and Geologic Hazards.

“General Meeting means either the Annual General meeting or Special General

meeting

04 - 422

Auditors

Procedure in theevent of the Councilbeing sued.

Amendment of Rules

Interpretation

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.