==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2103$2 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 24 jeks i÷od - 2018'12'24

No. 2103/2 - MONDAY, DECEMBER 24, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 29139 — 09 (12/2018)

SERVICE MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA SURVEYORS’ SERVICE

The following Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will be replaced without prejudice to the ServiceMinute of the Sri Lank Surveyors’ Service that came into force with effect from 01.08.2005 and published in the GazetteExtraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.1434/5 of 27.02.2006 and to any steps taken orpurported to have been taken as per the amendments made to the said Minute from time to time.

By order of the Public Service Commission,

M.A.B. DAYA SENARATH,

Secretary,Public Service Commission.21st December 2018.

01. Effective Date

This Service Minute shall come into operation with effect from 24.12.2018

02. Particulars of the Appointing Authority

2.1 Appointing Authority - The Appointing Authority for the post of Surveyor General is the Cabinet of Ministers

and for the other posts in Service other than the post of Surveyor General, the Appointing Authority is thePublic Service Commission.

03. Particulars of the Service categories

3.1 Service Category: Senior Executive

Executive

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20182A

3.2 Grades

Senior ExecutiveSpecial GradeExecutiveGrade IExecutiveGrade IIExecutiveGrade III

3.3 General definition of the role entrusted

Functions assigned to the Surveyor General as the Head of the Department by the Survey Act, No. 17 of2002 and other laws incidental thereto and other functions specifically assigned to him in relation to thesubject of Surveying should be carried out by those who hold posts in this service.

04. Nature of the post - permanent and pensionable.

(Shall be subjected to a policy decision made by the government in future on the pension scheme.)

05. Salaries

5.1 Salary Code Number- Senior Executive- SL-03-2016

- Executive- SL - 01- 2016

5.2 Salary ScaleSenior Executive - SL-03-2016

Rs. 88,000 – 12 X 2,700 – 120,400/-

Executive - SL-01-2016

Rs. 47,615 – 10 X 1,335 – 8 X 1,630 – 17 X 2,170 – 110,895/-

5.3 Grading system applicable to service category and monthly salary step applicable to grading system

GradeInitial salary stepSalary level

Grade IIIStep 01, SL-1-2016Rs. 47,615

Grade IIStep 12, SL-1-2016Rs. 62,595

Grade IStep 20, SL-1-2016Rs. 76,175

Special GradeStep 01, SL-3-2016Rs. 88,000

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20183A

06. Posts belonging to service categories

6.1 Approved designations, number of approved posts and functions assigned to them

Approved Designations (Grade) Approved CarderTasks

Surveyor General (Special Grade)1

Additional Surveyor General3(Special Grade)

Senior Deputy Surveyor General5(Special Grade)

Deputy Surveyor General /Provincial15Surveyor General (Special Grade)

Senior Superintendent of Survey(Grade I)60

Superintendent of Survey (Grade II)139

Assistant Superintendent of Survey/850Surveyor (Grade III)

6.2 Number of combined officers: 1049

All Grades of III, II and I are considered as belonging to the number of combined officers for grade to gradepromotion.

07. Method of Recruitment

All recruitments will be made to the Grade III of the Service from the officers who fulfill the following qualificationsand serve in the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Serviceand who is a registered Surveyor in the Land Survey Council in terms of the Survey Act, No. 17 of 2002.

(i) If an officer recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor with a degree in Surveying Science, should have

served at least three (03) year active and satisfactory period as an Apprentice Surveyor in the Department ofSurvey with a training period of six months (06) on departmental activities.

Monitoring and Supervising of dutiesassigned by Survey Act and other lawsincidental thereto and other related dutiesspecifically assigned to the Surveyor General

Monitoring and Supervising of dutiesassigned by Survey Act and other lawsincidental thereto and other dutiesspecifically assigned by the SurveyorGeneral

Carrying out, monitoring and supervising ofduties assigned by Survey Act and other lawsincidental thereto and other dutiesspecifically assigned by the SurveyorGeneral

Carrying out, monitoring and supervising ofduties assigned by Survey Act and other lawsincidental thereto and other dutiesspecifically assigned by the SurveyorGeneral

Carrying out of duties assigned by Survey Actand other laws incidental thereto and otherduties specifically assigned by the SurveyorGeneral

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20184A

(ii) If an officer recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor with non-Surveying Science degree, should have

completed a degree in Surveying Science and served at least three year (03) active and satisfactory period asan Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey.

Scheme of Recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the SriLanka Surveyors’ Service is included in appendix “A”

08. Efficiency Bar

Which EfficiencyNumber of years prior toNature of the Efficiency BarBarwhich the Efficiency BarWritten Examination /Tradeshould be passedTest/Certificate Course/Other

1st Efficiency BarWithin three years from the recruitmentSee appendix “B”to the Grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’Service

2nd Efficiency BarWithin three years (03) from theSee appendix “B”promotion to the Grade II of Sri LankaSurveyors’ Service

3rd Efficiency BarWithin five years (05) from theSee appendix “B”promotion to the Grade I of Sri LankaSurveyors’ Service

8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examination is conducted: Will be held twice a year.

8.3 The authority conducting the examinations relevant to the Efficiency Bars.

1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations oran institution approved by the Secretary to the Ministry.

3rd Efficiency Bar Examination will be conducted by the institutions set out in Appendix “A” or an institutionapproved by the Secretary to the Ministry.

09. Language Proficiency

LanguageProficiency to be achieved

01. Official Language proficiency

Other official language

Link language

An officer recruited to the public service through a language other than an officiallanguage as An Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the SriLanka Surveyors’ Service should acquire proficiency in one official language duringthe probation period.

An officer recruited to the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service shall acquire proficiency inother official language belonging to category III in terms of Public AdministrationCircular No. 01/2014 within 5 years from such recruitment.

An officer recruited to the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service should have completed aqualification either a pass in English language as a subject in the G.C.E. OrdinaryLevel Examination (not as an optional subject) or a pass in the Special Examinationof English language conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping within 5years from the recruitment.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20185A

10. Grade Promotion

10.1 Promotion to Grade II from Grade III

10.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:

(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment

(ii) Should have completed minimum of ten (10) years period of active and satisfactory service in

Grade III of the service category and earned ten (10) increments.

(iii) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above during a period of ten

(10) years preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved procedure of theperformance appraisal.

(iv) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service throughout the period of five (05) years

immediately prior to the date of promotion.

(v) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the level applicable.

(vi) Should have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.

10.1.2 Method of Promotion

When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to theappointing authority, promotion to Grade II will be made with effect from the date on which they fulfillsuch qualifications after the scrutiny of qualifications by the Appointing Authority.

10.2 Promotion to Grade I from Grade II

10.2.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:

i. Should have completed a period of seven (07) year active and satisfactory service in Grade II as

at the date on which qualifications are completed for promotion and earned seven (07) salaryincrements.

ii. Should have passed the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination in the service.

iii. Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during five (05) years immediately prior

to the date of promotion.

iv. Should have achieved a performance at a satisfactory level or above during seven (07) years prior

to the date of promotion according to the approved procedure of performance appraisal

v. Should have obtained a postgraduate degree in Surveying Science from a university/institute

recognized by the University Grants Commission or in a subject area related to the field ofSurveying Science or in Land Administration.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20186A

10.2.2 Method of Promotion

When officers who fulfill qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the AppointingAuthority, promotion to Grade I of the Service will be made by the Appointing Authority with effectfrom the date of acquirement of the qualifications, irrespective of the number of vacancies after thescrutiny of qualifications.

10.3 Promotion to Special Grade from Grade I

10.3.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

i. Should have obtained a postgraduate degree in Surveying Science from a university/institute

recognized by the University Grants Commission or in a subject area related to the field ofSurveying Science or in Land Administration.

ii. Should have completed a period of five (05) years of active and satisfactory service of Grade I

of the Executive Service Category as at the date of acquirement of the qualifications for promotionand earned five (05) salary increments after promotion to Grade I of the Executive ServiceCategory.

iii. Should have completed a period of active service not less than 18 years in the Executive Service

Category of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service as at the date of becoming eligible for promotion.

iv. Should have Shown an annual performance at a satisfactory level or above during a period of five

(05) years immediately prior to the date of becoming eligible for promotion.

v. Should have possessed a period of satisfactory service during the period of five (05) years

immediately prior to the date of promotion and should have not been subjected to a disciplinarypunishment.

10.3.2 Method of promotion

Promotion to the Special Grade of the Service will be made by the Appointing Authority according tothe seniority of the officers in Grade I of the service who fulfill qualifications, based on the number ofvacancies existing in the Special Grade.

11. Appointment to posts

11.1 Qualifications

PostQualifications

Surveyor GeneralShould be a senior officer of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service

Additional Surveyor GeneralShould be an officer in Special Grade of the Sri LankaSurveyors’ Service

Deputy Surveyor GeneralShould be an officer in Special Grade of the Sri LankaSurveyors’ Service

Deputy Surveyor General/ProvincialShould be an officer in Special Grade of the Sri LankaSurveyor GeneralSurveyors’ Service

Senior Superintendent of SurveyShould be an officer in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service

Superintendent of SurveyShould be an officer in Grade I or II of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20187A

11.2 Method of Selection :

PostQualifications

Surveyor General

Additional Surveyor General

Senior Deputy Surveyor General

Deputy Surveyor General/ProvincialSurveyor General

Senior Superintendent of Survey

Superintendent of Survey

12. Conditions extraneous to the general conditions stipulated in the Procedural Rules of Public Service

Commission.

(a) Period of Compulsory Service

Officers receiving the appointment as Apprentice Surveyor with a degree in Surveying Science, are subject to a six(06) year period of compulsory service from the date of appointment and officers receiving the appointment asApprentice Surveyors with other degree are subject to a eight (08) year period of compulsory service as from thedate of appointment. Every officer who receives an appointment as an Apprentice Surveyor should enter into anagreement with the Surveyor General and the officers relinquishing the appointment prior to the compulsoryperiod of service will be dealt with as per such agreement.

(b) Induction Training

i) Training on departmental activities will be provided to the Surveying Science graduates appointed to the post

of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.

Will be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers

Appointment of the next senior most officers in Special Grade ofthe Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service other than the Surveyor General tothe posts of Additional Surveyor General, as per the existing numberof vacancies, will be made by the Public Service Commission

Appointment of the next senior most officers in Special Grade ofthe Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service other than the Surveyor Generaland the Additional Surveyor Generals, to the posts of Senior DeputySurveyor General as per the existing number of vacancies, will bemade by the Public Service Commission

Appointment of the senior most officers of the Superintendent ofSurvey in Grade I of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service, to the posts ofDeputy Surveyor General/Provincial Surveyor General as per theexisting number of vacancies, will be made by the Public ServiceCommission

Appointment of the senior most officers who hold the post ofSuperintendent of Survey in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’Service, to the posts of Senior Superintendent of Survey as per theexisting number of vacancies, will be made by the Public ServiceCommission.( When appointment are made, priority will be givento the officers who have been given acting/ attending to dutiesappointments)

Appointment of the next senior most officers in Grade I or Grade IIof the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service to the posts of Superintendent ofSurvey, as per the existing number of vacancies will be made by thePublic Service Commission.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20188A

ii) Officers with other degrees other than the holders of the Surveying Science degree appointed to the post of

Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service should completea BSc degree course in Surveying Science as their second degree at the institute of Surveying and Mappingand training on departmental activities will also be provided.

(c) In-service Training

Professional knowledge will continuously be provided to the officers by in-service training courses. Professionaldevelopment needs of all officers in the service will be provided by these training courses.

13. Definitions

i) “Gazette” means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

ii) “Service” means Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service

iii) “Service Minute” means the Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service

iv) “Secretary to the Ministry” means Secretary of the ministry in charge of the subject of Surveying.

v) “Institute of Surveying and Mapping” means the Institute of Surveying and Mapping established under the Act

No. 21 of 1969

vi) “Minute of 01.08.2005” means the Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service published by the Gazette

Extraordinary No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2005 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and becomeeffective as from 01-08-2005 and the amendments thereof.

vii) “Period of active service means the period of service an officer, drawing the salary assigned to his post,

excluding any period of no-pay leave other than periods of approved no-pay leave for specific purposes,which have been recognized by the cabinet of Ministers as a policy”

viii) Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will constitute of officers appointed to the Classes or Grades referred to above

in such service in any of the Departments set out in Appendix “C” appended to this Minute.

14. Determination of the number of vacancies and the extent of recruitment

The number of vacancies in the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’Service will be computed by deducting the total of the number of officers serving in such posts and the number ofofficers serving in the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’Service out of the approved number of posts for the post of Assistant Superintendent of Survey/ Surveyor. Thenumber of the vacancies remain is considered as the vacancies remain as at the date of 30th July in the same year.

The number of officers serving in the posts of Assistant Superintendent of Survey, Surveyor, and the ApprenticeSurveyor in Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service should not herein be exceeded numberof officers serving in the approved number of posts for the posts of Assistant Superintendant of Survey/Surveyor.

15. Recruitment to the Service, Confirmation in the Service and Making of Graded Promotions

(a) New recruitments to the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will be made only to Grade III and the graded promotions

should only be made under the methods set out in this Minute.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.20189A

(b) If they have attained the successful completion of the apprentice training as per the paragraph 12, the relevantproficiency in a official language prior to the confirmation in the post of the Apprentice Surveyor recruitedto the Service in a medium of language other than an official language and the continuation of duties andconduct satisfactorily as an Apprentice Surveyor and if the qualifications stipulated in the section 7 of thisService Minute have been fulfilled, they will be confirmed in service following recruitment to the Grade IIIof the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.

16. Retirement Option

Where the Public Service Commission is satisfied that an officer in service who has not reached his optional age of retirement by the date on which this Gazette notice of the Service Minute is published has been adversely affected by the provisions of this Service Minute to such an extent as to avail the privilege of expressing his option to retire under Section 7 of the Minute on Pensions, he will be allowed to so retire subject to avail such option within five years (5) from the date on which this Service Minute being published in the Gazette.

17. Absorption of officers in service into the new grade structure of the reconstituted Service.

It is applicable only for those who are in service as at the date on which this procedure takes effect. All officers drawing salaries under the salary scale of SL-01-2006 and SL-03-2016 as provided by the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 and the Circulars incidental thereto on the due date will be absorbed as follows subject to the provisions of Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

Period of service will be calculated on the basis of the date appointed to each post. However, due to absorption the date of increment of the person concerned should not be changed and such date should continue to be effective as the increment date that remained prior to the absorption. Likewise, due to reason that the salary step of the person concerned was drawing last corresponds to the new salary step, he should not be placed on the next higher salary step either in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

i) Absorption to the Grade III of the Service

The officers who are in Grade II of Class II of the Service as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will be absorbed to the Grade III of the Service.

ii) Absorption to the Grade II of the Service

a) The officers who are in Grade II of Class I of the Service as at the date of Service Minute takes effect will be absorbed to the Grade II of the Service.

b) The officers who received appointments to the Grade I of Class II under Section 7.3 of the previous Service Minute as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will be absorbed to the Grade II without the right to promotion to the Grade I.

iii) Absorption to the Grade I of the Service

The officers who are in Class I of the Service as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will be absorbed to the Grade I of the Service

iv) Absorption to the Special Grade of the Service

The officers who are in the Selection Grade of the Service as at the date the Service Minute takes effect will be absorbed to Special Grade.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201810A

18. Interim provisions

Interim period will be in force over an ensuing period of 05 years from the date this Service Minute takes effect.

18.1 Higher diploma course in Surveying Science conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping or a post

graduate diploma course on Surveying Science or a course in Surveying Science equal to or higher than thisare accepted as alternative qualifications to those prescribed in (V) of 10.2.1 and (I) of 10.3.1 of this ServiceMinute, during the interim period.

18.2 The officers who have exceeded a period of five (05) years of service in Class I in terms of the Service

Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2006,as at the date this minute is published in the gazette, will be exempted from the requirement of passing overthe third efficiency bar examination prescribed under 8.1.

18.3 Five years of concessionary period from the date on which this Service Minute is published, will be allowed

to pass over the efficiency bar examination in respect of Grade I under this Service Minute for the officerswho have not earned 05 increments by completing a period of 05 years of active and satisfactory serviceafter promotion to the Class I, even if they had been promoted to the Class I as at the date on which thisService Minute is published in the gazette.

18.4 The officers considered to have passed the efficiency bar examination 1 and 2 as per the Minute of 01.08.2005

will still be considered to have passed this efficiency bar examination 1 and 2 under this Minute as well.

18.5 Surveyors who were not qualified to absorb into the Class II/II of the service in terms of section 7.1 of

Minute of 01.08.2005 and served in Classes of III/ I,III/ II,III/III should remain in the present Class/Gradeuntil they are qualified to be appointed to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service. They will beappointed to Grade III of the Service on completion of the qualifications prescribed in section 7.1 of theMinute of 01.08.2005 subject to such conditions.

18.6 When promotions are made to Grade I in the case of officers who are absorbed into Grade II as at the date

this minute takes effect, provisions of Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service set out in theGazette Extraordinary No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2006 should be made applicable in the interim period and itwill be in force only up to 31.12.2018.

18.7 When officers who were recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the Department of Survey outside

the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service in terms of Minute of 01.08.2005 are recruited to Grade III of Sri LankaSurveyors’ Service, recruitments are made in terms of the provisions set out in such Minute.

18.8 For the posts of Senior Superintendent of Survey rendering vacant till the completion of the Minimum period

of service required for the promotion to Grade I under this Service Minute after 31.12.2018 i.e. up to of01.08.2022, officers will be appointed on the basis of acting or attending to duties subject to the approval ofthe Public Service Commission. This acting appointment is made according to the seniority in Grade II andif any officer who does not accept such acting / attending to duty appointments at the time of making suchappointments he will not be considered for reappointments to an acting /attending to duties appointmentuntil period of 02 years.

(When permanent appointments are made to the post of Senior Superintendant of Survey, priority will begiven to the officers engaging in acting/ attending to duties appointments. Subsequent to making ofappointments to the officers engaging in acting/ attending to duties in the post of Senior Superintendent ofSurvey, the officers who did not engage in acting/attending to duties appointments will be appointed to thepost of Senior Superintendent of Survey.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201811A

19. Proficiencies determined by the government from time to time

In addition to the requirements stipulated in this Minute, all officers should duly acquire the necessary proficienciesand skills determined by the government from time to time.

20. Seniority

When appointing the Surveying Science graduates recruited to the post of Apprentice Survey or to Grade III of theSri Lanka Surveyors’ Service, the criterion of deciding the seniority is the level of marks secured by each officerin the competitive examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Examinations Department as per Appendix “D”.

When open recruitment (on the results of the competitive examination) and the recruitment on merit (on themarks of the interview) to the post of Apprentice Surveyor were made on a same day, the officers who wererecruited on merit are considered to be having more seniority.

21. Matters not provided for

Decisions on matters extraneous to the provisions of this Minute will be made by the Public Service Commission.

Appendix “A”

Method of Recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka

Surveyors’ Service.

Recruitments to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Servicewill be made so as to enable the filling up of the vacancies existing in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Servicesubsequent to the completion of prescribed qualifications.

Recruitment ratio

StreamPercentage

Open90%

Merit10%

Note:

In the recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of Department of Survey, outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’Service, 90% of the number of recruits will be made from the graduates with prescribed qualifications through anopen competitive examination and balance will be recruited from officers who have a minimum of five (05) yearactive and satisfactory service with prescribed qualifications serving in a post of the Sri Lanka TechnologicalService of the Department of Survey after being confirmed in the service through a structured interview under themethod of merit recruitment. However, if an adequate number of officers cannot be enrolled on the basic of meritrecruitment for selection to train as Apprentice Surveyors of the Department of Survey outside the Sri LankaSurveyors’ Service, graduates selected on open recruitment will be engaged for such vacancies too.

In the recruitment under the open stream, Surveying Science graduates and other graduates will be engaged inaccordance with the ratio of 9:1. If Surveying Science graduates are found to be unavailable in the required number,such number will be completed from the other graduates and if other graduates too are not sufficiently available inthe required number, such number will be filled up from the Surveying Science graduates.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201812A

2. Open recruitment

2.1 Qualifications

2.1.1 Educational Qualifications

(a) Should have obtained from a University/Institute recognized by the University Grants

Commission,

(i) A BSc degree in Surveying Science

or(ii) A BSc Special degree (Mathematics or Physics or Computer/Information Technology

Science as a main Subject)

or

(iii) A BSc degree in Engineering Science

or

(iv) A Computer/Information Technology Science degree with a class

or

(v) General BSc degrees with the subjects of Mathematics and Physics with a class

and

(b) Should have passed the subjects of Mathematics and Physics for the G.C.E. Advanced Level.

2.1.2 Professional qualifications and experience – Not applicable

2.1.3 Physical Qualifications

Every candidate should be a person who is physically fit in every respect to serve in any part of SriLanka with three dimensional sight void of color blindness.

2.1.4 Other

(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka

(ii) Should be of excellent moral character

(iii) Persons ordained in any religious order will not be recruited to this post and they cannot apply

for this post. Likewise, they are not in any way permitted to sit for the recruitment examination.

iv) The fact that the qualifications required to sit for the competitive examination for appointment

to the Service have been fulfilled will be accepted only if the qualifications prescribed in thisAppendix have been completed as at the date stated in the Gazette Notification as the date onwhich the qualifications should be completed. Copies of the certificates should be submittedwith the application in support of the qualifications.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201813A

2.1.5 Age

2.1.5.1 Minimum Age limit: 22 years

2.1.5.2 Maximum Age limit: 28 years

2.2 Method of recruitment

Recruitments will be made by a written competitive examination conducted by an institute approved by theCommissioner General of Examinations or Surveyor General. The candidates who have passed all the subjects andsecured a minimum of 40% marks for each question paper, will be recruited to the post of Apprentice Surveyoroutside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service in the order of merit of marks subsequent to an interview conducted bythe Surveyor General for examining the qualifications and general physical fitness.

(a) Details of the open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the Department

of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.

The open competitive examination held for the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the Department of Survey of SriLanka is conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and candidates are allowed to sit only in one languageand the medium applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently. This examination is consisted of questionpapers related to three subjects as follows and every candidate should appear for all three subjects.

Name of the question paperTimeMaximum marksPassed marks

1. Comprehension2 hours10040

2. Intelligence Test2 hours10040

3. General Knowledge2 hours10040

Comprehension

A number of short texts is given to the candidates by these question papers limited for a period of two hours (02).Certain texts are given to express in one sentence. Questions for which comments should be provided to theunderlined words are also given. A number of alternative statements is given to the candidates in respect of certainother text and one of them is most suitable for the contents included in this text. Candidates should select the mostappropriate statement from it. Several questions will be given to the candidate in regard to certain other texts.Correct answers for them are expected. These questions are prepared to test the manner in which the candidategrasps the meaning of such texts. In addition to this, a long text will be given for summary writing.

Intelligence Test

This paper which is limited to two (02) hours, has been prepared to assess the logical state of thinking of thecandidate, analytical competence of his mind and his decision making power. This question paper will consist ofquestions fitting into multiple choice method.

General Knowledge

This is a general question paper which is confined to two (02) hours to test the knowledge of the entire gamutincluding political, social, cultural, and economical and environmental state of Sri Lanka and the technological andtechnical developments as well as nationally and internationally important contemporary matters. Selection ofquestions of their choice out of several questions is permitted.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201814A

2.3 Method of calling for applications

By publishing a notice in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and by publishing inwebsite.

3. Recruitment on merit stream

3.1 Qualifications

3.1.1 Educational qualifications

(a) Should have obtained from a University/Institute recognized by the University Grants Commission,

(i) A BSc degree in Surveying Science

or

(ii) A BSc Special degree (Mathematics or Physics or Computer/Information Technology Science

as a main subject)

or

(iii) A BSc degree in Engineering Science

or

(iv) A Computer/Information Technology Science degree with a class

or

(v) A BSc General degrees with Mathematics and Physics subjects with class

and

(b) Should have passed the subjects of Mathematics and Physics for the G.C.E. Advanced Level.

3.1.2 Professional Qualification : Not applicable

3.1.3 Experience

Should be an officer serving in a post of Sri Lanka Technological Service of the Department of Surveyhaving confirmed in the service and should have completed an active and satisfactory period of servicenot less than five years.

3.1.4 Physical Qualifications

Every candidate should be a person who is physically fit in every respect to serve in any part of SriLanka with three dimensional sight void of color blindness.

3.1.5 Other

Should have completed a satisfactory service during the immediately preceding period of five (05)years and should not have been subject to disciplinary punishment

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201815A

3.1.6 Maximum age limit: No age limit

3.2 Method of Recruitment: By a structured interview and general interview.

3.2.1 Structured Interview

Headings to which marks areMaximum MarksPass Marksgiven after scrutiny

1. Performance (as per

performance reports)

2. Period of service

3.2.1.1 The Appointing Authority of the structured interview board: Surveyor General

3.2.2 General Interview (Marks will not be given)

General interview is conducted by the structured interview board at the same time.

3.2.2.1 Objectives expected to be fulfilled

Examination as to whether the candidates have fulfilled the qualifications required for recruitmentas an Apprentice Surveyor in accordance with the qualifications stipulated in the gazettenotification published and the examination of general physical fitness.

3.3 Method of calling for Applications

By publishing a notice in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or the departmentalcirculars and by publishing in the website.

3.4 Salary category and Salary scale entitled to the post of Apprentice Surveyor,

MN-5-2016

Rs. 34,605 - 10 X 660 - 11 X 755 - 15 X 930 – 63,460/-

Appendix “B”

Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Services – Efficiency Bars

There are three efficiency bar examinations in the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Services.

1stEfficiency Bar

An officer recruited to Grade III of the Service should prior to completion of 3 years from the date of recruitmentto the Service pass the first efficiency bar examination which will be a written examination with the followingsyllabus. Minimum of 40 marks for each paper shall be obtained for the following two question papers.

Marks will be given in terms of amarking scheme approved by the PublicService Commission

Not applicable

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201816A

Name of the question paperTimeMaximum marksPass marks

1. Departmental Survey Regulations3 hours10040and Standing Orders.

2. Establishments Code, Procedural

Rules and Financial Regulations3 hours10040

1. Departmental Survey Regulations and Standing Orders

One question paper relating to Departmental Survey Regulations, Technical Instructions, Standing Orders,Government Tender Procedure.

2. Establishments Code, Procedural Rules and Financial Regulations

This is a question paper prepared on the matters related to the following subjects in the Establishments Code,Procedural Rules and Financial Regulations

(a) Financial Regulations (Other than the Chapter X);

(b) Chapters of Establishments Code (I, II, III, V, VI, VII, IX, XXVIII, XXV, XXVI, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI,

XXXIII, XLVIII)

(c) Procedural Rules published by the Public Service Commission (Including the amendments)

2nd Efficiency Bar:

The 2nd efficiency bar examination which will be a written test with the following syllabus should be passed priorto completion of three years (03) after promotion of the officers in Grade II to the grade II. Minimum of 40 marksfor each paper should be obtained for the following two question papers.

Name of the question paperTimeMaximum marksPass marks

1. Land Law and Surveying of Lands3 hours10040

2. Field Survey Management3 hours10040

(1) Land Law and Surveying of Land - One question paper relating to Land Law, Land Administration, Modern Surveying

Technology and Cadastral Surveying

(2) Field Survey Management - One question paper relating to Management and Organisation of Office and Field

Duties

3rd Efficiency Bar

Officers in Grade I should complete five short term courses (05) in Surveying Science or Management for seniorofficers conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping or Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administrationprior to completion of five (05) years after promotion of officers in Grade I to Grade I.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201817A

Appendix “C”

The Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service will consist of public officers appointed to Grade III, II, I and Special Grade in theapproved cadre of any of the following departments.

i) Department of Survey

ii) Land Commissioner General’s Department

iii) Department of Railway

iv) Department of Coast Conservation

Appendix “D”

01.Name of the examination: Examination conducted for the determination of seniority in the appointment to Grade III ofthe Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.

02. Details of the examination: In the appointment to the Grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service, a written examination

with the following syllabus will be conducted for the determination of the seniority. The seniority will be determinedon the average of the marks obtained for 02 question papers by the relevant candidates.

Name of the Question paperTime

1Practical Surveying & Leveling03 Hours

2Survey Information Management03 Hours

03. Examination authority : Department of Examinations Sri Lanka

04. Syllabus for the examination :

1) Practical Surveying and Leveling.

(i) Use and establishment of horizontal vertical control network.

(ii) Use of surveying and leveling instruments and accuracy.

(iii) Management of human and physical resources for surveying of lands.

(iv) Collection of spatial / non spatial data by different data sources. (Preparation of plans / digital data as

appropriate for and according to the requirements of land information)

(v) Collection of land information and preparation of a data base

(vi) Identifying of state / private lands.

(vii) Identifying of legal frames for each land.

(viii) Preparation of topographical plans.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'24PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.201818A

2) Survey information management.

(i) Practical knowledge required for different types of survey requests.

(ii) Preparation of land surveys. (including journals )

(iii) Understanding required for reservation of lands for reserves and public works.

(iv) Coordination of related institutions.

01- 166

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.