==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.20171A

N. B. Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 2047/1 ends with No. 2047/53This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Government Notifications

w;s úfYI

wxl 2048$1 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 04 jeks i÷od - 2017'12'04

No. 2048/1 - MONDAY, DECEMBER 04, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

MEDIA GUIDELINES UNDER ARTICLE 104B(5)(a) OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE

DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

THE Media Guidelines made by the Election Commission under Article 104B(5)(a) of the Constitution of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Mahinda DeshapriyaN. J. AbeysekereS. Ratnajeevan H. Hoole,ChairmanMemberMemberElection CommissionElection CommissionElection Commission

Colombo,04th December, 2017.

1. Every media institution shall provide accurate, balanced and impartial information in broadcasting or televising

their news bulletins and any other programme relating to political matters. The neutrality and impartiality ofmedia shall be monitored regularly by the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on ElectionsComplaints and the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on Media Guidelines.

2. Every telecasting, broadcasting and print media shall be neutral and impartial in their reporting of matters

relating to any election and shall not act in a manner which is discriminatory against any contesting politicalparty, independent group or a candidate or causing a special benefit to any such party, group or candidate inallocating airtime and allotting space for such political party, independent group or a candidate in the newspapers.

3. Editorials published in the newspapers shall not be commented by electronic media as opinions in such

commentaries may be confused and biased. Whenever an editorial opinion is broadcast, televised or published,the affected party shall be given an opportunity to broadcast, telecast or publish material to counter such opinion.

1A- PG 3398— 907 (12/2017)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.20172A

4. Every presenter of programme and announcer of television and radio channels shall refrain from expressing

personal views at the newspaper desks where newspaper headlines and cartoons are presented which may promoteone party while prejudice another.

5. It is the responsibility of the news and current affairs divisions of all electronic and print media institutions not

to broadcast, televise or publish any biased programme or supplement during the election period, if suchprogramme, supplement or news item is inconsistent with the election laws and media guidelines of the ElectionCommission.

6. Where any material covering an incident or event is broadcast, televised or published with comments of one

candidate, any other political party or independent group having an interest in such event or likely to be affectedby that should also be given an opportunity to express the views on the same incident or event.

7. The names of the script writer, announcer and the editor of any documentary programme or any other special

programme broadcast or televised during the period of an election which is directly connected with such electionshall be disclosed during the time of that programme. In the event of any such media institution retains the rightnot to disclose such particulars, the person in charge of such programme shall be held responsible for thecontents thereof.

8. Any media institution shall not utilize air time during any programme or news bulletin to make unsubstantiated

allegations against any candidate contesting at an election if it cannot be reasonably proved. If any politicalparty, independent group or a candidate claims that another political party, independent group or a candidate ora supporter thereof has made any false and prejudicial statement against such political party, independent groupor candidate shall be given an opportunity to counter the same.

9. Where any news or programme covering any official function or event related to any crime which is likely to

promote or demote any political party, independent group or a candidate is published, even such news orprogramme is not related to any election, every media institution if publishing such news or programme shallconsult the parties involved therein for clarity.

10. Where during an election coverage is given by radio or television to opinions or views expressed by the President

or the Prime Minister or any Minister, it shall be treated as coverage given to the political party to which suchperson belongs. Therefore, any leader of a rival political party contesting such election shall also be givenopportunity in similar programmes. The print media shall similarly provide equal space and prominence to allpolitical parties, independent groups and candidates in publishing special discussions and reporting campaignmeetings.

11. No candidate shall be specially and favourably treated in allocating air time or space in the print media to

promote the election of such candidate or to cause disadvantage to another candidate.

12. No lecture, interview, or such other programme with public officers shall be published or broadcast promoting

any contesting candidate or causing disadvantage to another candidate.

13. Every electronic media institution shall act in a reasonable manner in selecting participants for panel discussions

so that the composition of the discussion is balanced. Every media institution shall refrain from directingprogrammes to cause disadvantage to any participant by conducting the programme in a particular languagewhich such participant is not proficient with. Interviews with participants shall be published in a language thatthe participant is proficient with. Information obtained through vague and incomprehensible questions shouldnot be published, or such questions should never be asked. At the outset, the participant in the programmeshould be warned not to make statements which are unethical or harmful to communal harmony, and if suchstatements are made while the discussion is in progress, the programme should be discontinued then and there.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.20173A

14. In any phone-in programme, every caller shall be given fair opportunity to the questions which are not unethical,

not harmful to the religious or communal harmony and consistent with the laws relating to elections. Everyperson conducting such phone-in programme shall be answerable for any imbalanced phone-in programme.

15. If any chairperson, member of the board of management, director or any journalist of any electronic or print

media institution actively engaging in political activities and where any such activity may cause conflict ofinterest in providing balanced broadcasting or publishing, such person shall inform in writing to the managementof the institution, the following :-

(a) the involvement of such person ;(b) the position held by such person in the institution ; and(c) the extent of involvement of such person in organizing programmes.

16. Where any person holding any main position in any recognized political party or any person having similar

powers and is also holding a dominant office such as the chairman, member of the board of directors, chiefexecutive or chief editor of any media institution and, where such person is also a candidate at an election or theparty to which such person belongs is directly or under a recognized alliance contesting at such election, heshall not actively engage in the duties assigned to him in such media institution. Further, if such person iscontesting as a candidate or holding office in a contesting party at an election, he shall not involve in moderatingany programme in any television or broadcasting institution which is of political in nature and, in the case ofprint media such person shall not publish his own political articles through that media institution.

17. Where any participant of a political party refuses to participate in a discussion or an interview in any media

institution without assigning any reason for such non-participation, such media institution shall not display anempty chair or create other similar dramatic situation to emphasize such non-participation. It is recommendedthat a simple and direct announcement be made about the absence of the participant.

18. Any electronic media which broadcasts or print media that publishes the result of an opinion poll shall announce

or publish the name of the organization conducted such poll, the organization or the person commissioned andfunded such poll, methodology employed, the size of the sample, margin of error and the period of fieldwork,Further, the broadcaster or publisher should state that such poll reflects the public opinion only at the time ofsuch poll.

19. Where any candidate makes any statement to promote the candidature of another contestant of party or group,

to which such candidate does not belong, no publicity shall be given to such statement by way of broadcasting ortelecasting such statement.

20. Every media personnel shall refrain from taking photographs or videoing of the inside of any polling station or

postal voting centre without written consent of the Election Commission. Any photograph or video visual obtainedwithout permission shall not be published in newspapers, televised or promoted through any media. Even thephotographs and visuals obtained with the approval of the Election Commission may be published or televisedonly after the poll.

21. Any advertisement, quiz programme, entertainment programme, any programme relating to development activities

or any such activities, film, teledrama, musical show or any other programme of such nature televised, broadcastor published prior to the date of election conducted by or featuring any candidate or promoting or demoting anycandidate or party or an independent group shall not be telecasted, broadcast or published during the period ofsilence prevails just before the date of poll. Hence, it is considered vital that a period of silence prevails justbefore the date of poll to enable the voter to contemplate and, consider the pros and cons of various policiesannounced and promises made by political parties and candidates during the election campaign.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'04PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.20174A

22. Every media institution shall refrain from broadcasting, telecasting or publishing propaganda that may create or

induce hatred and intolerance among Sri Lankan people on various grounds including the religious beliefs, faithpractice, languages spoken, ethnicity, customs and castes.

23. Every media institution shall avoid broadcasting, telecasting or publishing propaganda activities that promote

hateful politics among political activists and within society.

24. Every media institution shall refrain from republishing or repeat telecasting of any statement made previously

by any candidate or a supporter about another candidate of another political party without the consent of thedeclarant and honour the request made by a declarant not to repeat such statement made by such person previously.

25. Any media institution shall not give coverage to anonymous notices or propaganda and to the notices or propaganda

under the names of fake organizations or persons. The responsibility in this regard shall lie with the respectivemedia institution.

26. Any media institution and the person making any statement or reading such news, as the case may be, shall be

equally accountable with regard to publishing, broadcasting or televising incorrect statements or news and shallbe subject to legal proceeding that would arise in this regard.

27. It shall be the responsibility of every electronic and print media institution to adhere to and abide by the moral

ethics of media.

28. All government and semi government media institutions shall refrain from the use of state property and funds to

promote any political party, group or candidate and to cause loss to govenrment revenue and act to cause damageto any institution. In the event of such activity, in addition to the penalties specified in the Constitution,disciplinary action may be instituted against those responsible.

29. The proprietors of all electronic and print media shall adhere to these guidelines and ensure that the respective

institutions observe such guidelines.

30. It shall also be the responsibility of the administrators of social media sites to follow these guidelines as

applicable to them, during any election period.

31. It is not only the duty, but also the responsibility of the proprietors of media institutions and administrators and

users of social media to adhere to these guidelines, because it is essential to follow them to ensure a free andfair election.

32. The Gazette Extraordinary No. 2008/28 dated 03.03.2017 is hereby rescinded.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.