==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

w;s úfYI

wxl 2035$16 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 06 jeks nodod - 2017'09'06No. 2035/16 - WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 06, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. : id'.s$j;=/04/2017.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers'Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriyaof the one part and The Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union, No. 6,Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day ofMarch 2017 regarding the Technical Staff is hereby publishedin terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Acting Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,25th August 2017.Collective Agreement No. 19 of 2017

Collective Agreement - Technical Staff

This Collective Agreement entered into between theEmployers' Federation of Ceylon of 385 J3, Old Kotte Road,Rajagiriya, of the First Part, and the Ceylon Estate Staffs'Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, of the Second Part,made and entered into on the Twenty Third day of MarchTwo Thousand Seventeen witnesseth as follows :-

1.Title

This Agreement shall be known as the PlantationsTechnical Staff Collective Agreement.

2.Employers Covered and Bound

This Agreement shall bind the members of theEmployers' Federation of Ceylon, whose names arecontained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referredto as the Employers of Employer, as the case may beaccording to context, for and in respect of the

1A—G 26201 - 14 (09/2017)

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause3 hereof.

3.Unions and Employees Covered and Bound

This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaidTrade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, andmembers of the said Union who are employed by themembers of the Federation referred to in Schedule I onmonthly contracts of employment and in respect ofwhom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule IIhereon.

4.Earlier Agreements

The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede andreplace any earlier Agreements in respect of thesecategories and shall be deemed conclusive in relationto all terms and conditions. In the event of there beingany dispute with regard to the existence of any otherterm or condition not contained herein, the same shallbe resolved by reference to the 'disputes committee' tobe formed under the provisions of this agreement andthereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms ofthe Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is not resolvedbefore the 'disputes committee' but the party of theSecond Part shall not be entitled to take trade unionaction on the basis of the existence of any such allegedterm or condition.

5.Date of Operation and Duration

Subject to any provisions to the contrary, thisAgreement shall be effective from 1st October 2016and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminatedby either party giving notice of termination in terms ofthe Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the conditionthat no party shall give notice to the other before 30thSeptember 2019.

6.General Terms and Conditions

i.The revised terms and conditions relating to thisAgreement shall only come into force on the 1stMarch 2017 and shall be deemed to be includedin all contracts of employment of those coveredby this Agreement with effect from the said date.Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect ofany payment whatsoever relating to such revisedterms for the period 1st October 2016 up to 28thFebruary 2017.

ii.Grading of employees covered shall be at thediscretion of the Employer.

iii.Upon completion of 10 years of satisfactoryservice under the same employer, Junior AssistantFactory Officer shall be re-designated asAssistant Factory Officer.

7.Probation

On recruitment every employee shall serve a period ofprobation of not more than six months, subject to theright of the Employer to extend the probationary periodfor a further period of three months at his discretion ofreasons of unsatisfactory performance, misconduct orother justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter.However, in the event of the probationary period notbeing extended after the period of 6 months, theemployee shall be deemed to be confirmednotwithstanding there being no letter of confirmation.During the period of probation or extended probationthe Employer shall have the right to terminate withoutnotice or assigning reasons therefor.

8.First Appointment

No person will be recruited to a grade covered by thisAgreement unless he has successfully completed theG. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English andArithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to thosewho have experience in the trade.

9.Attendance at work

Unless otherwise specifically instructed by hisEmployer, an employee shall present himself for workon every day other than a holiday due to him, at theusual starting time and at the usual working place andshall thereafter remain available for work throughoutthe normal working hours.

10.Promotions

i.Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors beingcomparable, seniority shall be given preference.The Employers shall advertise internallyvacancies where employees covered by thisAgreement may have appropriate skills andqualifications to make them eligible.

ii.Where an employee acts in a senior capacity overa period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in thesenior capacity, he will not be required to serve aperiod of probation.

iii.Where an employee is required to act in a seniorcapacity for a period of more than one month, itshould be communicated to him in writing and he

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of thedifference between his salary and that which waslast paid to the holder of such senior positionsubject to a maximum of Rupees Two Thousand(Rs. 2,000/-) per mensem.

iv.Overlooking period shall not exceed 6 monthsand during that period the employer shall paythe employee 10% of the employees' basic salaryas an overlooking allowance. This functionalallowance shall not attract any consequentialbenetifs such as EPF and ETF.

11.Salaries

1.The salaries payable to the employees coveredand bound by this agreement with effect from 1stMarch 2017 shall be as follows :

i.With effect from 1st March 2017, thesalaries of all employees in employment asat the date of signing of this Agreementshall be increased by 25% based on lastdrawn salary.

ii.In terms of the above salary revision, thesalary ranges applicable will accordinglybe revised as per Schedule II of thisAgreement.

iii.In the case of Factory Officer/Storekeeper who are presently entitled toan allowance on account of work as aStorekeeper, such employee shallcontinue to receive his/her allowances atthe rate of 12.5% of the salary drawn byhim/her. The allowances shall not bepayable if the additional duties are notperformed or not deemed necessary.Contributions to EPF and ETF shall bemade in respect of this allowance.

iv.Subject to the provisions set out in clause6(1) above, the Regional PlantationsCompanies covered and bound will to paythe revised salaries in the month of March2017.

2.(a)With effect from the date hereof, employeeswho are entitled to a payment in liue of staffquarters being provided to them shall receive a

10% increment of the following allowances,depending on the grade to which they belong,and the revised allowance will be as follows :

Junior Asst. Factory Officer - Rs. 1,122/-+10% =Rs. 1,234/-Asst. Factory Officer - Rs. 1,188/-+10% = Rs.1,307/-Senior Asst. Factory Officer - Rs. 1,386/-+10% =Rs. 1,525/-Factory Officer - Rs. 1,518/-+10% = Rs. 1,670/-Factory Officer Special Grade - Rs. 1,584/-x10% =Rs. 1,742/-

b)In the event of any person not occupyingquarters provided by the Employer, suchperson shall be liable to disciplinary action.

12.Hours of work and overtime

i.The working week shall be six days of forty eighthours. One day each week shall be allowed as anoff day. Work on the weekly off day or in excessof forty eight hours per week or ten hours perday shall be deemed to be overtime.

ii.If required by his Employer, an Employee shallwork reasonable overtime which has beenauthorized by the Employer. Each hour of overtimework shall be calculated by dividing the monthlyrate by two hundred and forty (240) multiplied byone and a half (1 1/2).

13.Leave

1.Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14days Annual Leave. In the first year the leaveentitlement shall be on a proportionate basis. Allemployees with more than 20 years service andHeads of Departments shall be entitled to threeweeks paid annual leave as a special benefit. Thisright shall not extend to any employee recruitedafter 1st September 1993.

2.(i)Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall begranted up to a maximum of 21 workingdays in a year. Sick leave will be granted upto two days at a time without thesubmission of a Medical Certificate. Forleave of three days and over, a medical

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

certificate from an approved MedicalPractitioner of a Government Hospital shallbe considered necessary, subject to theright of the Employer to call for a medicalcertificate as aforementioned, where hedeems it appropriate.

(ii)In the event of an employee not availinghimself of his full quota of sick leave, hemay carry forward his leave, which he coulduse in the event of hospitalization or aprolonged illness in a succeeding year,subject to the condition however that hecannot avail himself of more than 90 dayson that account.

(iii)In the case of an employee whose termspresently permit him a higher quantum ofsick leave he shall be permitted to continueto enjoy such concession as personal tohim.

3.Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitledin each year to a Maximum of seven (07) dayscasual Leave with full pay, not more than three(03) days being taken at a time. Casual Leavenot taken in any one year will not be carried overto the next year.

4.Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowedeach year to each employee on account ofreligious festivals in accordance with the religiouspersuations of such employees. Such leave maynot, however, be taken in continuation withCasual Leave.

14.Holidays

Employees will be entiteld to paid holidays on

February 4th - Independence DayApril 13th or 14th - Sinhala/Tamil New YearMay 1st - May Day

15.Gratuity

Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with thePayment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

16.Age of Retirement

i.Unless the letter of appointment specified a higherretiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years

and will be applicable to those who are inemployment as at the date of signing thisAgreement.

ii.However, an employer may retire an employee atthe age of 55 years subject to unsatisfactory workperformance, conduct or state of health of theemployee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory workperformance” shall include any act of misconductin respect of which disciplinary action has beentaken.

iii.An employer who decides to retire an employeeat the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii)above shall give such employee one year's noticein writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of suchnotice. Where such notice is not given and theemployees concerned is found guilty ofmisconduct during such one year period whichmisconduct would have otherwise resulted in hisretirement at 55 years, the employee shall beretired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding thefact that notice has not been given or paymentmade in lieu.

17. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment

1.Punishment for offences in the case of anemployee may include suspension, providedhowever that such suspension shall not exceedfourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

2.Punishment in excess of three days suspensionwithout pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.

18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries

1.An employee may be suspended from workwithout pay for a period not exceeding one monthpending a disciplinary inquiry when there is primafacie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, ofa charge or charges of misconduct against him.Such suspension shall be in writing.

2.Suspension of an employee on the groundreferred to in sub - clause (1) above for any periodin excess of one month shall be on half pay.

3.The provisions contained in sub - clauses (1)and (2) above shall not apply to the suspensionof an employee pending inquiries by the Police,by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

19.Administrative Transfers

1.Transfers not involving hardship in relation toschooling of children or employment of a spouse,will, subject to the exigencies of the service andthe requirements of the Employer, be made at thediscretion of the Management with one month'snotice in writing.

2.Transfers from one estate to another or from onedivision to another which are likely to causehardship on account of children's schooling orthe spouse's employment shall generally be madeat the end of the year with three month's notice inwriting.

3.Employees whose children are sitting for the GCEOL/ AL examination for the first time will not betransferred in that particular year.

4.The transfers of Employees whose children areto be admitted to Grade 01 in School also will beconsidered on a case by case basis.

5.No employee covered by this Agreement shallbe transferred, except on disciplinary grounds,in the last year prior to his retirement.

6.The provision of sub-clauses (1), (2) (3) and (4)above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinarygrounds, but the Management shall givereasonable notice, depending on thecircumstances of each case.

20.Annual Increments

1.Annual increments shall be grantedautomatically on completion of an year's service.The increments will be awarded in accordancewith the practice prevailing on each estate.Where increments are awarded on a uniform dateto all employees, in the event of an employeebeing confirmed in service within six monthsof the date on which increments are awarded,he shall not be entitled to any increment and willbecome eligible only from the following year.

2.An increment may be suspended, stopped ordeferred by way of punishment or for generalinefficiency, after the employee has been notifiedin writing of such fact. In the case of deferment,the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevantto the stoppage.

3.Revised annual increments shall be paid to allemployees in employment from 1st March 2017.

21.Disciplinary Inquiries

1.An employee may be suspended without pay byhis Employer pending an inquiry on a chargewhich warrants dismissal or where, in the opinionof the Employer, a breach of the peace, damageto property or disturbance of business needs tobe avoided. Where an employee is suspendedwithout pay he shall be notified in a generalmanner to the reasons for such suspension within3 days of the actual suspension.

2.An employee may also be suspended with paypending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry,where the Management deems that such measureis necessary.

3.An employee is entitled to be furnished with a'show cause' notice setting out the charges ofmisconduct alleged against him and the employeeshall be granted not less than seven (7) clearworking days in which to give the answer orexplanation. Where necessary the employee mayrequest further time and the Employer shall permita reasonable amount of time depending on thenature of the charges, but not exceeding a totalof 14 working days, other than in exceptionalcircumstances.

4.If the Employer is satisfied with the writtenexplanation, the employee shall be exonerated ofthe charge or charges and where appropriate heshall be summoned to report back for work. Wherethe explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employershall hold a disciplinary inquiry within areasonable length of time and shall commencesuch inquiry within 30 working days from thedate on which the explanation to the 'show cause'letter is received, unless circumstances preventthe employer from doing so.

5.An employee shall be permitted to have a Unionmember to defend him at the Inquiry. Suchrepresentative shall not be a professional. If theemployee wishes to have the benefit of suchrepresentation he shall inform the Superintendentof the name of the person defending him at least48 hours before the Inquiry is due to commence.The Superintendent may object to the individualselected, in which event the accused employeemay nominate another representative. The failureof an employee to be defended by arepresentative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

6.The Employer shall endeavour to give thefindings and convey the punishment, if any,within a period of 30 working days from the dateon which the inquiry is concluded, unless thereis justification for the delay. In no case shall thefindings be delayed beyond 90 working days fromthe date of conclusion of the inquiry, save andexcept in the case of a pending criminalinvestigation. If no findings are given within 90working days and the above exception does notapply, the accused employee shall be exoneratedof the charges.

7.Notwithstanding the above provisions, anEmployer may, where the circumstances sowarrant, terminate an employee summarily. Insuch event the letter of termination shall set outthe reasons for termination, including thejustification for summary termination. In suchevent, the Union may appeal to the Employer orthe appropriate forum.

22.Variations Of Terms And Conditions Of EmploymentAnd Disputes.

1.Parties hereto agree that during the continuancein force of this Agreement, they will not seek tovary, alter or add to any of the terms andconditions of employment, except by manualconsent.

2.Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is overand above the normal entitlement, shall continueto enjoy the same as personal, but this benefitshall not extend to any other employee. Theabove provision shall not apply to theconsumption of electricity, where a limit shall befixed for all employees.

3.Any dispute or issue of interpretation of thisAgreement shall be resolved by reference to theCommissioner General of Labour under theIndustrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement couldbe reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.

4.It is agreed by and between parties that theUnions, collectively or independently, or theirmembers, shall not resort to any form of tradeunion action on any matter covered by thisAgreement or is connected therewith.

23.Disputes Resolution Committee

It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolutioncommittee' comprising of 4 members eachrepresenting the Employers' Federation of Ceylon

and the Ceylon Estates Staff Union will beformed. Such committee will meet once inthree months to resolve any dispute that mayarise as set out in clause 4 above as well as inrelation to any violation of the provision of thisagreement, if required. However, in case of anurgent necessity a meeting will be held with twoweeks' notice.

24.Duty Leave

1.Subject to the approval of their respectiveEmployers, the President and one other officebearer of the Parent Union will be permittedsuch duty leave as their Union duties require.

2.Where any dispute arises with regard to dutyleave of the President and the nominated officebearer of the Parent Union, as specified in subclause (1) above, the Federation will attempt toeffect an amicable settlement between parties.

3.By mutual arrangement with the Employer, theTreasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowedtwelve days duty leave in any one year.

4.By arrangement with their respectiveEmployers, two Vice Presidents of the Unionshall be allowed twelve days duty leave whichmay be shared, on condition that the total leaveavailed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shallnot exceed twelve days in any one year.

5.By arrangement with their respectiveEmployers, Branch Chairman of the Union shallbe allowed twelve days duty leave which may beshared with the respective Branch Secretaries,on condition that the total leave availed jointlyby these two Office bearers shall not exceedtwelve days in any one year.

Part II

1.The Regional Plantation Companies covered and boundby this Agreement more fully described in Schedule Ito this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Unionto resolve any issues relevant to employees in asituation of amalgamation/sub-leasing of estates /divisions/ factories prior to such situations.

2.Electricity

Free electricity would be granted to members of staffon the following basis, irrespective of what they hadbeen enjoying in the past.

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior staff-140 unitsJunior staff-100 units

Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior staff-170 unitsJunior staff-130 units

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costseach estate.

Kerosene - Employer shall provide 25 liters keroseneper mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions without electricity.

3.Tea Allowance -

The employer shall provide free tea, on the followingbasis, to members of estate staff (including futurerecruits in those categories presently entitled)irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Senior staff-2 Kgs.Junior staff-1 1/2 Kgs.

The staff members could purchase in addition to theabove free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75%of the NSA or COP whichever is lower.

Staff members who had been entitled to three or morekilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992would be entitled to purchase a maximum of 3kgs at aconcessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever islower with effect from 1st June 2003.

4.Death Grant

1.With effect from the date hereof, on the death ofa staff member, the dependants will be paid a sumof Rs. 75,000/- as funeral expenses.

2.The dependants of the deceased staff memberwill be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3months salary within one month upon the deathof the employee and the balance at the time thedependants hand over the staff quarters.

3.If quarters are not provide to the deceased staffmember, the dependants will be paid the sumequivalent to 3 months salary within one monthof the death of the staff member.

5.Medical Aid Scheme

1.The Employee contribution to the medical aidscheme will be 5% and the Employers'contribution shall be 10%.

2.A staff member who is a member of the staffmedical aid scheme will be paid the total balancelying to his/her credit in the fund inclusive of thecompany's contribution to such fund, at the timeof retirement/death or termination of his/ heremployment from the estate.

Interpretation

WordMeaning

Unionmeans the Union referred to as the Party ofthe Second Part in this Agreement.

Disputeshall have the same meaning as in theIndustrial Disputes Act.

Employermeans a company who has subscribed tothis Agreement and is referred to inSchedule I hereof.

Weekmeans the period between midnight on anySaturday and midnight on the succeedingSunday night.

Yearmeans a continuous period of 12 months.

Gendera reference to the masculine gender shallinclude the feminine as well.

In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto settheir hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March TwoThousand and Seventeen.

A. L. W. GoonewardenaDhammika JayawardeneChairmanPresidentPlantation ServicesCeylon Estate Staffs' UnionEmployers' Group

W. M. K. L WeerasingheDirector GeneralThe Employers'Federation of Ceylon

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

Witnesses

1.1.Dilantha SeneviratneMr. Nath AmarasingheDirector/ CEOGeneral SecretaryTalawakelle Tea Estates PLC Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union

2.2.Mahen MadugalleRobert FrancisDirector/ CEOTreasurerKotagala Plantations PLCCeylon Estate Staffs' Union

3.3.Prasad de SilvaS. S. JayakumarAssistant Director GeneralDeputy PresidentHead of Plantation ServicesCeylon Estate Staffs' UnionThe Employers' Federationof Ceylon

SCHEDULE I

Agalawatte Plantations PLCAgarapatana Plantations LimitedBalangoda Plantations PLCBogawantalawa Tea Estates PLCElpitiya Plantations PLCElkaduwa Plantations LimitedHapugastenne Plantations PLCHorana Plantations PLCKahawatte Plantations PLC

Kegalle Plantations PLCKelani Valley Plantations PLCKotagala Plantations PLCMadulsima Valley Plantations PLCMalwatte Valley Plantations PLCMaskeliya Plantations PLCMaturata Plantations LimitedNamunukula Plantations PLCPussellawa Plantations LimitedTalawakelle Tea Estates PLCUdapussellawa Plantations PLCWatawala Plantations PLC

SCHEDULE II

Technical Staff Salary Ranges

Junior Asst.Rs. 23,650.00Factory Officer- Rs. 41,650.00Annual increment450

Asst. FactoryRs. 24,100.00Officer- Rs. 46,100.00Annual increment550

Snr. Asst. FactoryRs. 24,600.00Officer- Rs. 51,600.00Annual increment675

FactoryRs. 25,850.00Officer- Rs. 67,850.00Annual increment1050

Sp. Grade FactoryRs. 31,100.00Officer- Rs. 85,100.00Annual increment1350

09 - 483

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

SCHEDULE I (Contd.)