==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1955$6 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 23 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'02'23

No. 1955/6 - TUESDAY FEBRUARY 23, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Northern Province Provincial Council Health Services Statute No. 01 of 2015

NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province, Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Health ServicesStatute No. 01 of 2015 on 12th January 2016 and that the Hon. Governor, Northern Province has granted his Assent to iton 08.02.2016

K. THEIVENDRAN,

Secretary,Council Secretariat,Northern Provincial Council.

Council Secretariat,A9 Road,Kaithady,19th February 2016.

THE HEALTH SERVICES STATUTE

A Statute to provide for the establishment of a Northern Province Department of Health Services,to provide for the continuation of services for the promotion and preservation of the health of thepeople in the Northern Province ; and to provide for all the matters connected therewith and incidentalthereto.

This Statute is inconsistent with the Health Service Act, No. 12 of 1952 as amended.

Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province as follows :-

1. This Statute may be cited as the Northern Province Health Services Statute, No. 1 of 2015, and

shall come into force on the date on which is receives the assent of the Governor.

Short title anddate of operation

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.20162A

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NORTHERN PROVINCE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES, ITS

CONSTITUTION AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2(1) There shall be a Northern Province Department of Health Services (hereinafter referred to

as “the Department”) which shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of thisStatute.

(2) The appointment, transfer, dismissal and disciplinary control of officers of the Department

(other than officers in an All-island Service seconded for service in the Department) shallvest in the Governor in terms of Part IV of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.

3 The functions of the Department shall be -

a) to establish, administer and maintain Health institutions set out hereinafter in the Schedule

to this Statute, and to promote the improvement of the services provided by them ;

b) to establish and maintain institutions set out hereinafter in the Schedule to this Statute as

required for the provision of services relating to public health, educating the public onhealth issues, nutrition, family health maternity and child care, food and food sanitationand enviornmental health ;

c) to implement the Provincial Health Development Plan and the Annual Health Plan for the

Province ;

d) to provide all facilities (other than drugs) to the hospitals and institutions referred to in

sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) ;

e) to identify the staff and other servants required for the efficient discharge of services to be

provided by the hospitals institutions referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) and to makerecommendations in respect of such requirements to the relevant authorities ;

f) to provide capacity improvement programmes for all categories of staff of the Department

; and

g) generally to do all such other things as are necessary to facilitate the proper discharge of

the functions of the Department.

41. There shall be a Provincial Dircector of Health Services (hereinafter referred to as “the

Provincial Director”) who shall be the head of the Northern Province Department of HealthServices and shall, subject to the direction and supervision of the Secretary, implement theprovisions of this Statute.

2. There shall be appointed a Deputy Provincial Director of Health Services (hereinafter

referred to as “the Deputy Provincial Director - Health Services”) and a Deputy ProvincialDirector of Administration (hereinafter referred to as “the Deputy Provincial Director -Administration”), who shall assist the Provincial Director in the discharge of his functions,duties and responsibilities.

51. There shall be five Regional Directors of Health Services appointed respectively, for the

districts of Jaffna, Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Mannar.

Establishment ofNorthernProvince,Department ofHealth Services

The functions ofthe NorthernProvinceDepartment ofHealth Services

ProvincialDirector of HealthServices

RegionalDirectors ofHealth Services

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.2016

2. Subject of the direction and supervision of the Provincial Director, the Regional Directors

of Health Services shall be responsible for the provision of health services in theirrespective districts.

61. The Provincial Director shall facilities the preparation of the Annual Health Plan for the

succeeding year, taking into consideration the following in respect of the Province.

a) the increase of population in relation to the extent of land ;b) the spread of disease ;

c) the nutritional condition of the people ;d) the impact of the environment on health ; and

e) transport facilities available.

The Plan shall give a description of the development and construction activities proposedto be undertaken during the succeeding year.

2. The Provincial Director shall submit the Annual Health Plan to the Secretary who shall

then place it before the Provincial Health Services Advisory Board for its observations,The Secretary shall consider incorporating any observations of the Provincial HealthServices Advisory Board which in his opinion facilitate the provision of health services inthe Province and approve the Plan, before the thirtieth day of November of the year precedingthe year to which the Annual Health Plan relates. Then the Secretary will submit the AnnualHealth Plan to the Board of Ministers through the Minister of Health for the approval ofthe Board of Ministers.

3. Any development or construction activity which is not referred to in the Annual health Plan

for a particular year shall not be undertaken in that year, except with the approval of theBoard of Ministers.

7 The Provincial Director shall submit to the Secretary, before the end of the first quarter of every

year, a report with regard to the state of public health in the Province in the preceding year. Thereport shall identify, with statistics, the successes and the weaknesses in implementing the AnnualHealth Development Plan during the preceding year, and recommend measures to correct anyweakness identified.

8 The Provincial Director may, by notice in writing, request the Secretary or the Commissioner, as

the case may be, of any local authority in the Northern Province to provide necessary particularsand information with regard to health conditions within the respective administrative limits. TheSecretary or Commissioner, as the case may be, shall assist the Provincial Director by providingthe relevant information.

91. The Minister may make regulations in respect of any matter required by this Statute to be

prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorized or required by this Statute tobe made.

2. Every regulation made under this section shall be published in the Gazette and shall come

into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be specified insuch regulation.

3. Every regulation made by the Minister shall, before the expiration of one month after its

publication in the Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for its approval, Everyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofsuch disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done there under. Notificationof the date on which any regulation is deemed to be rescineded shall be published in theGazette.

Annual HealthPlan

Annual Reportrelating to thecondition ofHealth in theProvince

Health activitieswithin the localauthority areas

The powers of theMinister to makeregulations

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.20164A

PART II

PROVINCIAL HEALTH SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD AND HOSPITAL DEVELOPMENT

COMMITTEE

101. There shall be established a Provincial Health Services Advisory Board (hereinafter referred

to as “the Advisory Board”)

2. The Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Minister and shall consist of not more than

Nineteen (19) members appointed in the following manner.

a. ex-officio members, namely -

i. the Provincial Director of Health Services ;ii. the Provincial Director of Education ;iii. the Provincial Commissioner of Local Government ;

iv. the Provincial Director of Social Services ;

v. the Provincial Commissioner of Indigenous Medicine ;vi. every Regional Director of Health Services in-charge of a district ; andb. the following members who shall be known as “appointed members” -

i. four members from amongst medical practitioners working in the hospitals

and institutions referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3, andspecializing respectively, in Community Medicine, General Medicine,Obstetrics and Paediatrics ;

ii. five members from amongst persons with at least ten (10) years of experience

in the filds of Health and Social Services to represent Jaffna, Kilinochchi,Mullaitivu, Vanuniya and Mannar districts respectively

3. No person shall be qualified to be appointed or continue as a member of the Advisory

Board if -

a) he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ;b) he has not attained the age of eighteen years ;

c) he is or becomes a Member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any Local

Authority ;d) he has been declared an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent under any law in force in

Sri Lanka or any other country.e) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country found or declared to be

of unsound mind ;f) he is convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or punishable with

imprisonment for a term not less than six months.g) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of law in

Sri Lanka or any other country ; orh) he has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect the discharge of his functions

as a member of the Advisory Board.

4. The Provincial Director shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Board and the Secretary of

the Advisory Board shall be elected from amongst the ex-officio members of the AdvisoryBoard.

5. The terms of office of every ex-officio member shall be the period during which he holds

the post by virtue of which he is a member of the Advisory Board.

Provincial HealthServices AdvisoryBoard

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.2016

6. Each members has rights to cast one vote. in case of tie, the Chairman has the right

to exercise his casting vote.

7. An appointed member may resign from office by letter addressed to the Minister.

8. The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove and appointed member from office.

9. Subject to sub-sections (7) and (8), the term of office of an appointed member shall be

two years.

10. An appointed member, who ceases to hold office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for

reappointment.

11. Where an appointed member vacates, office by resignation, death, removal by the Minister

or otherwise, the Minister shall, having regard to the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) ofsub-section 2, appoint another person to fill such vacancy. The person so appointed shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

12. The Advisory Board shall meet at least once in three months or whenever necessary.

13. The Secretary shall summon meetings of the Advisory Board, and shall maintain minutes

of the meetings of Advisory Board.

14. The quorum for a meeting of the Advisory Board shall be eleven (11), including the

Chairman.

15. Members who attend meetings of the Advisory Board shall be paid allowances of such

amount as may be determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in-chargeof the subject of Finance and with the concurrence of the Governor.

11 The functions of the Advisory Board shall be to make recommendations and observations to the

Minister on matters referred to it by the Minister for the planning and provision of health servicesin the Province, the improvement of the services provided by the Department and generally, forthe promotion and preservation of the health of the people in the Province.

121. The Secretary shall, with the approval of the Minister, appoint for every hospital and

institution set out in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 3 a Development Committee forthe development of such institution.

2. Every Development Committee appointed, under sub-section (1) shall consist of -

a) ex-officio members, namely -

i. the Medical Officer in-charge of that hospital or institutions ;ii. the Divisional Secretary of the Division within which that institution is situated ;iii. A representative of the Buildings Department not below the rank of Techincal

Officer ;iv. the Secretary or Commissioner, as the case may be, of every local autority

within the administrative limits of which that insitution is situated ; and

Functions of theAdvisory Board

DevelopmentCommittee

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.20166A

b) the following members who shall be known as “appointed members”

i. four representatives of the staff of that institution ;ii. not more than six persons from amongst persons engaged in health and social

service activities in the area within which that institution is situated.

3. No person shall be qualfied to be appointed or continue as a member of a Development

Committee if -

a) he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ;b) he has not attained the age of eighteen years ;

c) he is or becomes a Member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any Local

Authority ;d) he has been declared an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent under any law in force in

Sri Lanka or any other country ;e) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country found or declared to be

of unsound mind ;f) he is convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or punishment with

imprisonment for a term not less than six months.g) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of law in

Sri Lanka or any other country ; orh) he has any financial or other interest as it likely to affect the discharge or his functions

as a member of the Advisory Board.

4. The term of office of every ex-officio member shall be the period during which he holds

the post by virtue of which he is a member of the Committee.

5. Each member has rights to cast one vote. In case of tie, the Chairman has the right to

excercise his casting vote.

6. An appointed member may resign from office by letter addressed to the Secretary.

7. The Secretary may, for reasons assigned and subject to the approval of the Minister, remove

an appointed member from office.

8. Subject to sub-sections (6) and (7), the term of office of an appointed member shall be

two years.

9. An appointed member, who ceases to hold office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible for

reappointment.

10. Where an appointed member vacates office by resignation, death, removal by the Secretary

or otherwise, the Secretary shall, having regard to the provisons of sub-paragraph (b) ofsub-section 2, appoint another person to fill such vacancy. The person so appointed shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

11. The Medical Officer referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of sub-section 2 shall be the Chairman

of the Development Committee appointed for that institution. A person elected by themembers shall be the Secretary of the Development Committee. The Secretary shall maintainminutes of the meetings of the Committee.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.2016

12. Every Development Committee appointed for a particular institution may, subject to the

approval of the Secretary, take measures for the development and rehabilitation of thatinstitution.

13. A Development Committee appointed for a Hospital prior to the coming into force of this

Statute shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be a Committee appointed under this Statute.Members of such Committee shall continue to hold office as members of a HospitalDevelopment Committee appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Statute untila new committee is appointed in accordance with the provisons of sub-section 1.

PART III - GENERAL

13. Subject to the national policy on health, all services provided in the Hospitals and institutions

referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 3 shall be provided without any charge.

14 In case of any inconsistency between the Tamil and the Sinhala or Engilsh text of this statute, the

Tamil text shall prevail.

15 In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires -

“Department” means the Northern Province Department of Health Services ;

“Local authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha in the Northern Province ;

“Governor” means the Governor of the Northern Province ;

“Medical practitioner” means a person registered as a medical practitioner under the Medical Ordinance.

“Minister” means the Minister of the Board of Ministers of the Northern Province, in-charge of the

subject of health ;

“Province” means the Northern Province consisting of the administrative District of Jaffna, Kilinochchi,

Mannar, Vanuniya and Mullaitivu ;

“Provincial Director of Health Services” means the Director of the Northern Province Department of

Health Services ;

“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister of the Board of Ministers of the Northern

Province, in-charge of the subject of health.

Free HealthServices

LanguageInconsistency

Interpretation

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.20168A

SCHEDULE I

Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province

CURATIVE SECTION

Type of InstitutionJaffna RegionKilinochchi RegionMullaitivue RegionVavuniya RegionMannar Region

General Hospital-1.Killinochchi1. Mullaitivue1. Vavuniya1. Mannar

Base Hospital1. Tellipalai----Type A2. Point Pedro

Base Hospital1. Chavakachcheri 1.Mulankavil1. Mankulam1. Cheddikulam-Type B2. Kayts2. Mallavi

Divisional Hospitals1. Atchuveli1.Akkarayankulam1. Puthukudiyiruppu-1. ChilawathuraiType A2. Chankani3. Sampathnuwara2. Murunkan3. Kopay3. Talaimannar4. VelvettihuraiDivisional Hospitals1. Velanai1.Poonakary1. Oddusuddan1. Nedunkerny1. AdampanType B2. Nattankandal2. Pesalai3. Vidathaltivu

Divisional Hospitals1. Delft1.Palai1. Unapulavu1. Ulukulam1. ErukkalampittiType C2. Punguduthivu2.Tharmapuram2. Alampil2. Pavaikulam2. Vankalai3. Analaitivu3.Uruthirapuram3. Kokilai3. Poovarasankumal3. Nanattan4. Karainagar4.Veravil4. Moonkilaru4. Neriyakulam4. Periyapandi-5. Nainathivu5.Vaddakachchi5. Sithamparapuram-virichchan6. Maruthankerny6. Puliyankulam7. Vaddukoddai7. Mamaduwa8. Pandathrippu9. Alaveddy10.Ampan11. Gurunagar12.Karaveddy13.Kodikamam14.Kondavail15.Mandaithivu16.Manipay17.Varany18.Ilavalai

Primary Medical Care1. Chunnakam1.Elephant Pass1. Iyankankulam1. Omanthai1. Iranai IllpakulamUnit2. Erlalai2.Iranaithivu2. Thunukkai2. Sooduventhapulavu 2. Maruchchukaddy3. Inuvil(Jeyapuram)3. Mulliyawalai3. Thiruketheeswaram4. Kaithady3.Kandawalai4. Kiribanwewa4. Vellankulam5. Kankesanthurai 4.Vannerikulam5. Ampalavanpokkanai5. Periyamadu6. Kokuvil6. Karippaddamurippu6. Tharapuram7. Palay7. Vepankulam8. Point Pedro8. Pandaraveli9. Punnalakadduvan10.Puthur11. Tholpuram12.Uduvil13.Urumpirai

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.2016

14.Mulliyan15.Vaddukoddai16.Eluwaitivu17.Pannai (Jaffna)Chest Clinic1. Jaffna1.Killinochchi1. Mullaithivu1. Vavuniya1. Mannar

S. T. D. Clinic-1.Killinochchi1. Mullaithivu1. Vavuniya1. Mannar

PREVENTIVE SECTION

M. O. H. Offices1. Chavakachcheri 1.Killinochchi1. Mullaithivu1. Vavuniya1. Mannar2. Point Pedro2.Poonagary2. Mallavi2. Cheddikulam2. Nanttan3. Kayts3.Kandawalai3. Puthukudiyirrppu3. Vavuniya South3. Manthai West4. Tellipalai4.Palai4. Oddusuddan4. Vavuniya North4. Musali5. Sandilipay5. Sampathnuwara5. Madhu6. Kopay7. Velani8. Nallur9. Uduvil10.Chankanai11. Karaveddy

Anti-Malaria Campaign1. Jaffna1.Kilinochchi1. Mullaithivu1. Vavuniya1. Mannarand Spraying Centres(SPC)

School Dental1. Central College, 1.Kilinochchi Maha1. MOH Office,1. Rampaikulam1. ADC, St. Xavier’sClinicJaffnaVidyalayamMullaitivuG. M. V.Girls College,2. Drieberg College2. Vavuniya TamilMannarChavakachcheriM. M. V.2. ADC, Sithyvina3. St. Jones College3. Vavuniya Muslimnayagar HinduJaffnaM. M. V.College,4. Ramanathan4. Vavuniya KovilkulamMannarCollege, ChunnakamPuthukulam3. ADC, Al-Azhar5. Girls High CollegeMv, MannarUduppiddy4. ADC, St. Anne’s6. Hindu CollegeM. M. V. VankalaiManipay7. SDC, DH, Kondavil8. SDC, DH, Velanai9. H. C. Vaddukoddai10.Alaveddy

Arunodhaya College

SCHEDULE I (Contd.)

Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province

CURATIVE SECTION

Type of InstitutionJaffna RegionKilinochchi RegionMullaitivue RegionVavuniya RegionMannar Region

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.201610A

SCHEDULE I (Contd.)

Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province

PREVENTIVE SECTION

Type of InstitutionMOH ChavaMOH KarachchiMOH MullaitivueMOH VavuniyaMOH Mannar

1. Kachchai2. Ushan3. Mathuvil4. Madduvil South5. Maravanpullo

MOH Chankani

1. Pannagam

MOH Point Pedro

1. Viyaparimoolai2. Thickam3. Athiyady4. Thumpalai East5. Katkovalam6. Manalkaddu7. Kudathtanai8. Thondamanaru9. Uduththurai10. Mamunai

MOH Kayts

1. Allaipiddy

MOH Sandilipay

1. Chavalkadu2. Mulli3. Pranpattu4. Sillalai

MOH Nallur

1. Ariyalai

MOH Uduvil

1. Thavdy2. Sanguvely3. Evinai

MOH Koay

1. Sivanagar2. Aanaivilunthan3. Puthumurippu4. Skanthapuram5. Santhapuram6. Unionkulam7. Uthayanagar West8. Ramanathapuram9. Kanagambikaikulam10. Malayalapuram

MOH Kandawalai

1. Kalmadunagar2. Puliyampokkanai3. Kallaru4. Umaiyalpuram5. Punnaineeravi

MOH Poonagary

1. Nachchikuda2. 4th Mile Post3. Kiranchi4. Iranaimathanagar5. Thampiral6. Gnanimadam7. Valaippadu

MOH Palai

1. Iyakkachchi2. Karanthai

1. Kallapadu2. Silawaththai3. Mullivaikkai4. Alampil5. Kumulamunai6. Uduppukkulam7. Thanneerutu8. Neeravipitty9. Mamulai10. Vattappalal

MOH Mallavi

1. Kalvilan2. Therankandal3. Iyankankulam4. Pandiyankulam5. Panankamam6. Palinagar7. Vannivilankulam

MOH Puthukudiyiruppu

1. Eranapalai2. Kompavil3. Kaiveli4. Vallipunam5. Suthanthirapuram6. Viswamadu East7. Ambalavan

Pokkanai

MOH Oddichuddan

1. Koolamurippu2. Othiyamalai3. Thanduvan4. Katchilaimadu5. Muththaiyankaddu

LB6. Muththaiyankaddu

RB7. Ampakamam8. Karippadda

murippu9. Thirumurukandy

MOH Welioya

1. Pandarikulam2. Samanamkulam3. Maharambai

kulam4. Koomankulam5. Rajendran

kulam6. Nelukulam7. Eachchankulam8. Sathirikoolan

kulam9. Panrikaitha

kulam10. Palamoddai11. Semamadu12. Santhosalai13. Thevasikulam14. Salambaikulam15. Kathirvelar

poovarankulam16. Nochchikulam

(Maligai)17. Chekkaddi

pulavu18. Samayapuram

MOH VavuniyaNorth

1. Kanakarajan

kulam2. Nainamadu3. Puliyankulam4. Kulavisuddan5. Katkulam6. Paddikudiyi

ruppu7. Sinnadampan8. Nedunkerny9. Olumadu

MOH VavuniyaSouth

1. Alagalle2. Maddukanda3. Agbopura4. Galabobowas

veva5. Rangethgama

MOH Cheddikulam

1. Sinnakarisal2. Puthukudiyi

ruppu3. Thalvupadu4. Pallimunai5. Tharapuram6. Talaimannar

Pier7. Erukalampiddy

MOH Nanattan

1. Madukkarai2. Jeevanagar3. Katkadantha

kulam

MOH Mussali

1. Arippu2. Palaikudy3. Kondaichchi4. Agathimurippu5. P. Potkerny6. Thampattam

musali7. Puthuveli8. Pichavanikulam9. Karadikuly10. Sannar

MOH Manthai West

1. Vidathaltheevu

West2. Illupakkadavai3. Moonrampiddi4. Vadakandal5. Echchilavakai6. Verthimadal7. Peiyamadhu

East8. Sotnapuri

MOH Madhu

Gramodaya HealthCentre

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.2016

1. Urelu2. Neervely3. Atchchelu4. Vatharawathai

MOH Karaveddy

1. Kottawathai

MOH Tellipalai

1. Alaveddy2. Cithagapuram3. Senankaladdy4. Kuddiyapulam5. Kulamangal

SCHEDULE I (Contd.)

Medical Institutions of the Provincial Department of Health Services, Northern Province

PREVENTIVE SECTION

Type of InstitutionMOH CopayMOH WelioyaMOH CheddikulaMOH Madhu

1. Janakapura2. Sampathnuwara3. Eththawettu

nuwewa

1. Varikuddiyur2. Andiyapuliyan

kulam3. Kanesapuram4. Thaddankulam

Scheme5. Meniyarkulam

Scheme6. Menicfarm7. Muthaliyar

kulam

1. Periyapandivi

richchan2. Sinnavalayan

kaddu3. Kunchikulam4. Katdaiyadampan5. Thachanamaru

thamadhu

SPECIAL SERVICE UNITS

Type of InstitutionJaffna RegionKillinochchi RegionMullaitivu RegionVavuniya RegionMannar Region

Cancer Hospital1. Tellipalai----

Spinal Code and Injury---1. Vavuniya-Centre

Prosthetics and Orthotics-1. Killinochchi-1. Vavuniya-Centre

TRAINING INSTITUTIONS

Type of InstitutionJaffna RegionKillinochchi RegionMullaitivu RegionVavuniya RegionMannar Region

Regional Training Centre1. Pannai (Jaffna)----

Nursing School---1. Vavuniya-

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.02.201612A

COMMUNITY BASED INSTITUTIONS

Type of InstitutionJaffna RegionKillinochchi RegionMullaitivu RegionVavuniya RegionMannar Region

Mental Health1. Tellipalai--1. Cheddikulkan-Intermediate2. Point PedroCare Uunits

Mental Health1. Tellipalai----Long TermCare Units

Regional Addiction1. Chavakachcheri----Rehabilitation Centre

Mental Health1. Maruthankerny1. Malayalapuran1. Therawil1. Maruthodi1. AdampanCommunity Support2. Poonahary2. Thunukkai2. MusaliCentre3. Tharmapuran3. Mulliyawalai

03-222

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.