==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1921$5 - 2015 cqks ui 29 jeks i÷od - 2015'06'29No. 1921/5 - MONDAY JUNE 29, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Statute No. 04 of 2014 Pawn Brokers of the Central Province Provincial Council

I, do hereby append below to the notice of all,

The above statute passed on 07.04.2015 by Central Provincial Council of the Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka which wassanctioned by H. E. Governor of the Central Province on 20.05.2015.

SARATH EKANAYAKE,Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,Local Government and Provincial Administration, Manpower,Education, Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Lands, Cooperative Development,Trade & Commerce, Food Supplies andDistributional Affairs and Investment Coordination of theCentral Province Provincial Council.

Office of the Chief Minister,Central Province Provincial Council,03rd June, 2015.

PAWN BROKERS STATUTE No. 04 OF 2014 OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

A statute for delegation of powers to the Commissioner of Revenue of the Central Province for registration and forregulation of pawnbroker business and for making provisions for matters connected therewith or for matters incidentalthereto, except for the pawnbrokers business carried out by a Bank of the Central Province. This statute is inconsistent withthe Pawnbrokers Ordinance No. 13 of 1942.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.20152A

Be it passed by the Provincial Council of the Central Province of the Democratic Socialist Republicof Sri Lanka as follows:-

CHAPTER - IGENERAL

1. This Statute may be cited as the Pawnbrokers Statute No. ............... of 2014 of the CentralProvince Provincial Council and shall come and date into operation from the date of receivingthe assent of the Governor of the Central Province.

CHAPTER - IIPAWN BROKERS

2.(1) Pawn broker means a person, an institution, a joint company, a limited company, except abank registered under Finance Act, that keeps a shop for the purpose or sale of goods or fortaking in goods by way of security for money advanced thereon and purchases or receivesgoods and pays or advances or lends thereon any sum of money, with an agreement orunderstanding expressed of implied or to be from nature and character of the dealing inferredreasonably that those goods may be afterwards redeemed or repurchased on any terms andconditions.

(2) No person shall carry on the business of a pawnbroker on and after the determined date ifsuch person:-

(i) is an individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or(ii) is a foreign company or(iii) is a foreign firm

and accordingly any license to carry on such business, which was issued to any suchindividual, foreign company, or foreign firm and was in force on the day immediately prior tothe determined date shall on and after such date be deemed to be null and void.

CHAPTER - IIIREGISTRATION

3.(1) Every person who desires to obtain a licence of a pawnbroker under this statute shall applyfor registration and shall obtain the registration from the Commissioner of Revenue of theCentral Province prior to commencing such business. The provisions of Section 62 areapplicable for ongoing business to date.

(2) The first application for licence shall be treated as the first registration to carry on thepawnbroker business according to provisions made under the succeeding Chapter iv called''obtaining license.''

CHAPTER - IVOBTAINING THE LICENCE

4.(1) No persons shall carry on a pawnbroker business or a place to carry on pawnbroker businessunless he holds a separate licence issued by the Commissioner of Revenue for each businesscenter or branch in respect of every business center or branch where pawnbroker businessis to be carried on.

(2) Every licence to be issued under above sub-Section (1) shall be according to the prescribedform shown in schedules ''A" herein.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Certain personsprohibited fromcarrying on thebusiness ofPawnbroker

Registrationbefore carryingthe business

Pawnbrokershall obtain alicence

3AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

(3) Every licence to be issued under above sub-section (1) shall be valid for the premisesmentioned therein and for a period of one calendar year.

5.(1) The Commissioner of Revenue shall forward a copy of each and every licence issued underabove Section 4(1) to the Superintendent of Police in charge of the area within which suchbusiness is to be carried on.

6. The hoder of a licence issued under Section 4(1) herein shall not transfer such business, towhich such licence relates without the written approval of the Commissioner of Revenue anda transfer of such business without approval of the Commissioner shall be for all purposes nulland void.

7. No person shall be issued a licence to carry on the pawnbroker business unless such personforward an affidavit to the Commissioner of Revenue to the effect that he has not committedany illegal or unlawful act or that he has not been convicted in respect of such as offence andif so he has no right to obtain a licence.

8.(1) Every person who desire to obtain a licence to carry on pawnbroker business in any premisesshall forward an application to the Commissioner of Revenue accompanied by:

(a) Affidavit that he has not committed an illegal act or unlawful act or that he has notbeen convicted of such an offence or default.(b) A document prepared according to Section 44(1) of this Statute.(c) Certificate of business registration joint business agreement certificate of registrationas a limited company.(d) Where a pawnbroker maintains more that one pawnbroker center having more thanone branch of the same, he shall forward a separate application to the Commissionerof Revenue according to the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Revenue inrespect of each center or each branch separately.

(2) A pawnbroker shall forward an application to obtain a licence for pawnbroker business inrespect of succeeding calendar year prior to two (02) months of the date on which thecurrent licence is due to expire.

(3) First application for carrying out a pawn business is the initial registration to carry on thepawn business and for this purpose a registration fee as determined by the Minister andpublished in the Gazette shall be payable. In addition the amount specified undersub-Section 10(2) shall also be payable subject to provisions under sub-Section 10 (3).

(4) Where a annual license is issued to a pawnbroker, who carries on a pawnbroker businesswithout renewing the annual license on the due date, the relevant license fee for every yearthat he carried out the pawnbroker business and a detention fee of 50 percent (50%) of theannual licensing fee shall be levied for every month that such person carried out the business.

(5) Where a annual license is issued to a pawnbroker, who carries on a pawnbroker businesswithout a license, the relevant licensing fee for every year that he carried out the pawnbrokerbusiness and a detention fee of 50 percent (50%) of the relevant licensing fee shall be leviedfor every year that such person carried out the business.

(6) Where an applicant has fulfilled the requirements in terms of this Statute and under theregulations enforced under the same for obtaining a licence and it has not disqualified, theCommissioner of Revenue shall not refuse to issue him a licence.

Copies of licenceto be sent to theSupdt. of Police

Transfer oflicence withoutprior approvalRevenueCommission

Persons havingright to obtain alicence

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.20154A

Making appealto the ChiefSecretary

Forward annualaccounts whenapplying for alicence

Prohibition oflicence to certainpersons

Paymentssecurity beforeissue of licence

(7) Where a person forwards an application to carry on a pawnbroker business theCommissioner of Revenue shall be informed such applicant of his decision torefuse the issue of licence with reasons within a period of 30 days.

(8) A person carries in a pawnbroker business is entitled to make a writtenrepresentation to Chief Secretary regarding any injustice caused to him in theexercising the powers mentioned under Section 8(4) and 8(5), above with in aperiod of 14 days. The decision of the Chief Secretary shall be final in this regard.

9. A pawnbroker when applying for a licence in respect of any calendar year shall beforwarded to the Commissioner of Revenue an annual account of revenue of thispawn business for the financial year immediately preceding.

10.(1) Any person who is prohibited from carrying on his pawnbroker business due theimplementation of provisions in this statute, a licence to carry on a pawnbrokerbusiness shall not be issued on the due date or thereafter and any licence issuedto such person due to an error shall be treated as null and void for all purposes.

(2) Annual licence fee payable for a licence to be issued, and security amount to bedeposited by the licence and the manner in which the security to be deposited, shallbe determined by a regulation published time to time in the gazette by the Minister.

(3) Amount or amounts of security payable by a licence as intimated to him by theCommissioner of Revenue shall be deposited in an account of the National SavingsBank to the credit of Commissioner of Revenue. Amount in deposit and or interestthereon shall not be paid to the depositor except on closure or conveyance ofbusiness. However if there is any amount payable to a pawner or pawners ofarticles by the licencee, such amount shall be deducted from the security depositand its interest.

11.No person shall be issued a licence to carry on a pawnbroker business

(1) (a) If such person is convicted on any offence punishable under provisions ofthis Statute and/or under provisions of Chapters xi, xiii, xvii or xviii of the PenalCode, in any occasion, within five years immediately prior to the date ofmaking an application to carry on a pawnbroker business and/or,

(b) If a licence issued to any person under this Statute or under PawnbrokerOrdinance is cancelled under Section 12 of this Statute; and/or

(c) If he is a person whose name is published in the Government Gazette accordingto Section 13(2) herein; and /or

(d) If the annual statement of accounts required under section 9 is not furnishedand/or

(e) If documents required under provisions in Section 8 are not furnished and/or

(f) If he is an auctioneer.

12.(1) If the Commissioner of Revenue is satisfied that a person holding a licence underSection 4, has acted in contravention of this Statute or regulations imforced underthis Statute, in respect of this business as a pawnbroker, during the period ofvalidity of licence, such person's licence may be revoked or cancelled.However, the licencee shall be informed of such action before cancelling the licenceand he should be given two weeks time to represent matters against the same.

(2) Any one dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner of Revenue mayforward an appeal to the Chief Secretary within one month and the Chief Secretaryshall communicate his decision to the applicant within three months.

Cancellation of alicence

5AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

Cancellation of alicence

Publishing thename and addressof licence in theGazette andNewspapers

Notice ofPawnbroker’sabsence from SriLanka

Business hours

Languages to beused in enteringparticulars

(3) The Commissioner of Revenue shall be cancelled the licence of a pawnbroker, when apawnbroker or when he is not present, any of his employee or agent is convicted of anoffence in respect of this Statute, or in respect of a fraud in his business or in respect ofknowingly accepting stolen articles.

(4) Where a person holding a licence issued under Section 4 has violated this Statute or aregulation imforced under this Statute, as a pawnbroker, in respect of his business duringthe period of validity of such licence, the Commissioner of Revenue is empowered tosuspend such licence if he is so satisfied.

13.The Commissioner of Revenue shall be annually published in the Government Gazette andin the Sinhala, Tamil and English news papers, a notice containing,

(1) Name of licenced pawnbroker, name of the business and the address of the premises wherethe business is carried on

(2) Every occasion when convicted under Section 39 such person's name, private address,name of business and the address where the business was carried out and if the period ofvalidity of a licence has expired and a licence for the following year is not issued.

CHAPTER - VCONDITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENCEES

14. Every pawnbroker who intends to be away from Sri Lanka during any period exceeding03 months shall be-

(a) Given a written notice of the intention to go abroad to the Commissioner of Revenueand further(b) Nominated a person who is entitled under this Statute to carry out that pawnbrokerbusiness and to act for him on his behalf during his absence in Sri Lanka and shallobtain written approval of the Commissioner of Revenue for such absence.

15. No pawnbroker shall be accepted an article on pawn before 8.00 a.m. or after 8.00 p.m. on anydate.

16. No pawnbroker carrying out pawnbroker business shall act as or carry on the business of anauctioneer.

17. Every pawnbroker shall -

(a) Displayed in legible characters over the outer door of his shop or place of business,the name of his business, licence registration number and the word ''Pawnbroker" inSinhala Tamil and English and(b) Displayed in a conspicuous place of his business place, so as to be clearly visible toand be legible by every person visiting such place, a notice in Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish containing particulars set out in the 2nd schedule herein.

18. Where any particulars are required to be entered by this Statute, in any book, form or documentsuch particulars shall be entered in all the three languages namely, in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

19. Every pawnbroker shall be maintained and used in his business a pledge book, as in the form"B" and a sale book of pledge as in the form "C" as set out in the first Schedule therein, andshall enter therein in all relevant particulars time to time in a clear and legible manner when everas envisaged in terms of which provisions is made available in such forms and he shall make allinquires necessary for the period in this regard.

Pawnbroker notto act as anauctioneer

Notices to beexhibited byPawnbroker

Books to be keptby Pawnbrokers

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.20156A

Pawn receipt

Pawn receipt

20.(1)Every pawn receipt shall be written and signed in original and counterfoil as in the form "D" inthe first schedule shown herein in accordance with the directions contained in the said form.

(2) The particulars mentioned in the second Schedule shall be printed legibly in Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish on the reverse of the every pawn receipt.

(3) Where a pledge is pawned the foil of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge shall bear thestamp duty to the prescribed value in the receipt. The expense incurred in providing suchstamps shall be borne by the pawnbroker.

(4) No any articles shall be or considered to be accepted in pawn unless and until-

(a) The pawner has signed the counter foil of the pawn receipt.

(b) The pawnbroker has signed the original foil of the pawn receipt, has given the foil to thepawner and accepted by him.

(c) The pawner has received and accepted the original foil of the pawn receipt from thepawnbroker and,

(d) annual interest is indicated in the pawn receipt.

21. No pawnbroker shall, in respect of a loan on a pledge, charge interest at a rate exceeding therates specified in the second Schedule.

Provided however, that where business turnover tax is payable in respect of a loan given on apledge, nothing included in the preceding provisions of this Section shall be deemed toprohibit the pawnbrokers from recovering such tax from the pawner.

In this section ''pledge" includes a pledge which has been pawned and which has not beenredeemed before the due date.

CHAPTER - VI

PLEDGES

22. Every pledge shall be redeemable within a period of 12 months (hereinafter in this Statutereferred to as the "period of redemption") from the date of pawning exclusive of the said date.

23. Notwithstanding anything in this Statute to the contrary, every pledge shall continue to beredeemable until it is disposed of as provided under Section 32 of this Statute, although theperiod of redemption has expired.

24.(1)The pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge, if he surrenders to the Pawnbroker original ofthe foil of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge and prove his identity and signs the foil in thepresence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.

(2) A person other than the pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge, if such person surrenders to thepawnbroker the foil of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge, duly signed by the pawner, and if suchperson proves his identity and signs the foil in the presence of the pawnbroker, or his agent or servant.

(3) Where by reason of the death or a disability of the pawner, the holder of the original foil of thepawn receipt relating to the pledge, claims to be entitled to redeem the pledge, but is unable tosurrender to the pawnbroker the original foil of the pawn receipt duly endorsed and signed bythe pawner the pawnbroker shall permit the pledge to be redeemed, if such holder of the foil,

Pledgesredeemablewithin 24months

7AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

Keeping pawntickets illegalmanner

Compensationfor depreciationof pledge.

Protection ofowners and ofpawners nothaving tickets

Pawn ticket tobe retained bythe Pawnbrokerafter redemptionof sale of Pledge

surrenders to him, the said foil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge together with adeclaration in the form ''E" set out in the first Schedule, duly signed before a Justice of Peaceor a Commissioner of Oaths by such holder and by the person identifying him.

(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-Sections (1), (2) and (3), the pawnbroker shall on payment ofloan, the interest due thereon and the tax if any payable in respect of such loan appropriately-deliver the pledge to the pawner or holder of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge; thepawnbroker is hereby indemnified in respect of such delivery of the pledge.

(5) Provided however, if the pawn broker has reason to suspect that such holder has obtained thepossession of the pawn receipt illegally and by theft, or otherwise, the pawnbroker shallimmediately seize such person and the ticket, and hand over them to the police officer in chargeof the area where the pawnbroker centre is situated or to the Grama Niladhari as soon aspossilbe. If such person is delivered to the Grama Niladhari, he shall immediately produce suchperson before the Police Station where the pawnbroker center is situated along with the ticket.Any person delivered in the above manner with the receipt shall forth with be produced beforea court of law having jurisdiction by the Police Officer in charge of the Police Station.

25.If a person entitled to redeem a pledge or a person offering to redeem a pledge shows to thesatisfaction of a civil court having jurisdiction that the pledge has become or has been renderedof lesser value than its value at the time of pawning, by or through the default neglect or willfulmisbehavior or by all these reasons, of the pawnbroker, the court, if it discuss to be fit, awarda reasonable compensation, to the satisfaction of the owner of the pledge and the amount ofcompensation shall be deducted from the amount payable to the pawnbroker, or shall be paidby the pawnbroker is such manner as the court may direct.

26.(1)Any person claiming to be the owner of a pledge, but not holding the foil of the pawn ticket, orany person claiming to be entitled to hold the foil of the pawn ticket, but alleges that the foil ofsuch ticket has been lost, stolen, misslaid, destroyed or fraudulently obtained from him, mayfurnish to the pawnbroker a declaration in the form “E” set out in the first Schedule herein dulydeclared before a Justice of Peace by himself and by the person identiying him as a witness,and shall thereupon have as between himself and the pawnbroker, all the same rights andremedies as if he produced the foil of the pawn ticket.

Provided however, that for the purpose of redeeming a pledge he shall sign the counterfoil ofthe pawn ticket and not the foil thereof as required by Section 20.

(2) The pawnbroker is hereby indemnified from the responsibility being assigned under provisions inSection of 26 (1) of delivering the pledge or acting in confirmation with the declaration, unless he is inreceipt of actual or convincible notice that the declaration is fraudulent or false in any material particulars.

27.(1)Where the foil of a pawn receipt is surrendered to the pawnbroker for the purpose redeeminga pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession the foil and counterfoil of the pawnticket for a period of 24 months reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge.

(2) Where a pledge is redeemed without the surrendering of the foil of the pawn ticket relating tothe pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession for a period of twenty four monthsreckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge the counterfoil of the pawn ticketrelating to the pledge and the declaration furnished to him under Section 26(1) for the purposeof such redemption.

(3) Where a pledge is sold under the provisions of this Statute, the pawnbroker shall retain in hispossession the counterfoil of the pawn tickets relating to the pledge for a period of 12 monthsreckoned from the date of sale.

9 – PG 002133

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.20158A

Application andreturn of securityfurnished byPawnbroker

Liquidations ofbusiness andpayment balanceamount afterretaining theinterest

Liability ofPawnbroker incase of fire

Insurance Cover

Receipt ofPawnbroker

Pledges to besold by auction

Notice of Sale

Procedure at saleof Pledge formore the amountof the loaninterest and tax.

28.(1)Where in any circumstances any pledge is lost while in pawn with any pawnbroker, the presentmarket value of such pledge shall be payable to the pawner or to any other person entitled toredeem such pledge, by the pawnbroker from the security retained with him.

(2) The amount payable under Section (1) above, the deficit amount from the security underSection 10(2) shall be paid back by pawnbroker as an amount of security deposited. If theamount payable under sub-Section exceed the security deposit, such amount which so exceedsshall be paid in order to make payment to the pawner or to the person who is entitled to redeemthe pledge and in addition the security deposit under Section 10(2) shall also be deposited.

(3) Where a person ceases to carry on the business of a pawnbroker the amount of securityfurnished by him and the accrued interest thereon shall be payable to such pawnbroker, afterdeducting any amount due for payment of any sum mentioned under Section (1).

29.(1)Where a pledge is destroyed or damaged on consequence of fire, natural disaster or any otherconsequence, the pawnbroker shall be liable on demand within the period of redemption to paythe name of the pledge, after deducting the amount of loan and interest, and business turnovertax if any, payable in respect of such loan.

30.(1)Every pawnbroker shall insure his business with full liability insurance cover, showing the fullvalue of the articles pawned with him and all articles and pledge intended to be pawned withhim in future.

(2) Every pawn broker is liable to take necessary steps to store the pawned articles in a safetymanner, assuring the standard of the articles without any harm to it.

31.Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of redemption of the pledge issue a receipt for the amountof loan and interest paid to him and the taxes if any recovered by him and a copy such receiptshall be returned with here in the form “G” shown herein.

32.(1)Every pledge which is not redeemed within the period of redemption may be disposed by salethrough in a public auction; but shall not be disposed of otherwise and regulation in the thirdschedule shall be adhered to in such sale.

(2) where a pledge is to be sold by public auction, under preceding provisions of this Section thepawnbroker with whom such pledge has been pawned, shall give at least 60 days notice inwriting to the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, of the date and time fixed for such auctionsale and the place where-such auction sale is to be held. The Commissioner of Revenue afterthe lapse of a period of 15 days from the receipt of such notice shall inform his decision to thepawnbroker before 21 days of the date remitted to hold the auction.(3) where a pledge of a pawnbroker is to be sold under this statute, the pawner shall be informedby registered post before 14 days of the date time and place of sale by through auction by thepawnbroker, in terms of permission granted by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.

33.(1)In every occasion where a pledge is sold under this Statute for a sum more than the amount ofthe loan and interest due on the date of sale, added to any tax payable in respect of such loan,the pawnbroker shall -

(a) forthwith inform the pawner of such pledge, the amount for which the pledge was sold,and of the amount lying to the credit of the pawner after deducting the necessary costsand charges of the sale and,(b) Such amount shall be paid to the pawner, if he makes a demand within one year from thedate of such notice.

9AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

Method ofnotice underSection 31 theloan

Money depositedin the ProvincialCouncil to thecredit of aPawner

Power ofinspecting salebook andaccounts

Procedure to befollowed whenpawners do notgive a goodaccount ofthemselves

(c) If no such demand is made within a period of one year as provided under section (b)above, immediately after expiry of such period, the amount lying to the credit of thepawner shall be entrusted to the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue to be credited tothe Provincial Council Fund.

34.(1)The pawner shall forthwith be informed if any amount is deposited to credit of a pawner by theCommissioner of Revenue under provisions of Section 33.

(2) where a request is made to the Commissioner of Revenue for the payment of the amount issuch notice within two years from the date of issue of the said notice, by the Commissioner ofRevenue under Section (1) above, such amount shall be paid to the person makes the requestwithin 30 days of receipt,

(3) If no request is received within the two year period as provided under Section (02), theCommissioner of Revenue shall credit such amount that was to be payable to a pawner to theProvincial Council Fund.

35.A pawnbroker may bid and purchase at a sale by auction, held or purporting to be held underprovisions of this Statute, a pledge pawned with him, and when so purchased he shall deemedto be the absolute owner of such pledge.

CHAPTER - VIIINSPECTION - EXAMINATION AND SEIZURE

36.(1)On any occasion within two years from the date on which a pledge is sold under provisions ofthis statute, the holder of the pawn receipt may inspect the entry of the sale in the pawnbroker’s book and in the catalogue containing information about the auction sale authenticatedby the signature of the auctioneer, or either of the entries. The pawnbroker shall permit theholder of the pawn receipt to inspect the entries of the sale in such book and in the catalogueor either of them.

2. The Provincial Commissioner of Revenue of Deputy Commissioner of Revenue or/ and anassessor authorized by him in writing shall here the authority to inspect accounts of businessof a pawnbroker.

37.Where any person -

(1) Not producing the National Identity Card, passport or driving licence when offering anarticle on pawn or,

(2) Refusing or unable to provide a satisfactory account of the means by which he becamein possession of it, or

(3) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered onpawn by such person is his own property or not, or as to his name and address; or

(4) Attempts and tries to redeem a pledge he is not entitled to redeem; or

(5) The pawn broker has reason to suspect that when an article is offered on pawn, thesame has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained -

The pawnbroker may seize and detail the pawner and the pledge and hand them over to thecustody of a police officer or Grama Niladari as soon as possible. If an individual is handedover for custody of a Grama Niladari he shall forthwith produce the person to the Police Stationwhere the pawnbroker business centre is situated, together with the pawn ticket.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201510A

Power to searchPawnbroker’sshop or centre

Offences byPawnbrokers.

Any person delivered to Police custody in any manner shall be produced before a court of lawhaving jurisdiction by the officer in-charge of the Police Station.

38.It shall be lawful for an officer of teh Provincial Public Service, or group of officers authorize bythe Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, to enter any pawnbroker’s shop or place of businessat any hour of the day time and examine and take necessary notes fo any article pledge with thepawnbroker or any books an documents maintained by him. If the Commissioner fo Revenuedecides that the assistance of Police is necessary, a Police Officer may accompany the officeror officers so authorized and attend to any matters or all matters herein mentioned.

No person shall resist any such officer or group of such officers in the execution of suchduties.

CHAPTER - VIIIOFFENCES AND PENALTIES

39.Every person who -

(a) Offers to a pawnbroker an article on pawn, but refuses or is unable to provide asatisfactory account of the means by which he became in possession of such article; or,

(b) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered by himon pawn to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, and as to his name address or asto the name and address of the owner of such article; or

(c) Pawns with a pawnbroker, without any lawful excuse, the property belonging to anotherperson; or

(d) Attempts to redeem a pledge not being a person entitled to redeem such pledge.

(e) The pawnbroker has reason to suspect that when an article is offered on pawn, the samehas been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained and willfully and knowingly gives falseinformation regarding the same; or

(f) Contravenes any provisions of this Statute or fails to perform any act which is requiredto be performed under provisions of this Statute shall be guilty of an offence.

40.Every pownbroker who -

(a) Accepts an article on pawn from any person appearing to be under the age of sixteenyears or be intoxicated; or

(b) Accepts an article on pawn without giving the pawner foil of the pawn receipt; or

(c) Purchase, take on pawn or exchange the foil of a pawn ticket issued by anotherpawnbroker; or

(d) Employs any servant under the age of eighteen years to accept an article on pawn; or

(e) Purchase, except at a sale by auction under this Statute, any pledge when, in pawn withthe pawnbroker; or

(f) Make room for redemption of an article while in pawn with him with a view to purchasingit; or

Offers byPawners andother persons

11AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

Prohibition oftaking onPawn linenclothing,unfinishedgoods

Offencescommitted byPawnbrokers

Offences byservant oragent ofPawnbroker

(g) Come into agreement with any person, pawing or offering to pawn any article, to sell orto dispose such article within the period of redemption; or

(h) Come into agreement with any person, pawing or offering to pawn any article, to sell orto dispose such article within the period of redemption; or

(i) Sell or otherwise dispose of any pledge pawned with him, except in such manner as isauthorized by this Statute or;

(j) Make any false entry in any book required to be kept by him under this Statute orneglect to enter therein any entry which is required by this Statute; or

(k) Seize or detain any person under Section 22 or 24 (5) of this Statute without anyreasonable or justifiable cause; or

(l) Fail to have his business insured to the full extent of the liabilities of all pledge andarticles pawned and intended to obtain in pawn in future by him; or

(m) Contravene any provision of this Statute or neglects to carry out anything which he isrequired to perform under this Statute; or

(n) Fail to forward the annual report on accounts to the Commissioner of Revenue underprovisions of Section 06 of this Statute -

(o) Contravene any of the provisions of this Statute - shall be guilty of an offence-

41.Every pawnbroker who knowingly accept on pawn any linen or apparel, or unfinished goodsor materials entrusted to any person to wash to clean, iron, mend, manufacture, workout, finishor decorate shall be guilty of an offence. Where any court convicts any pawnbroker of anoffence under this Section, the court may in addition to any other punishment which suchcourt may impose for that offence, order the pawnbroker to restore the pledge to the owner inthe presence of court or in any other manner as the court may directs.

42.Every pawnbroker who neglects to deposit with the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue theamount lying to the credit of a pawner as required by Section 33(1) shall be guilty of an offenceand where any court convicts any pawnbroker for such offence, the court may, in addition toany other punishment which it shall impose for that offence, order a sum equal to such amountto be recovered from the pawnbroker as though in the form of a fine imposed by the court.Every such sum of money when recovered by the court, should be deposited in the ProvincialCouncil fund to the credit of the pawner.

43.Anything done or neglected to be done by the servant or agent of a pawnbroker in the courseof carrying out the business or in relation to the business of a pawnbroker, shall be deemed tobe done or neglected, as the case may be, by the pawnbroker.

Provided however, where in the absence of a pawnbroker, from shop or place of business,anything is done or neglected by any servant or agent of the pawnbroker contravening anyprovision of this Statute, such servant or agent himself shall be guilty of an offence.

44.(1)Every person who is guilty of an offence under this Statute, when convicted after a trial beforea magistrate, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding Rs. 200,000/- or imprisonment for a periodnot exceeding six months or both the fine and imprisonment. All amounts charged by a Courtunder this sub paragraph, should be credited to the Provincial Council fund.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201512A

Articlesunlawfullypossess by apawnbroker

The need forforwarding alegal documentwhenconveying abusiness

(2) Court of law shall order, in respect of a pawnbroker who carry out his pawn business withoutobtaining a licence, to pay arrears of annual licence fees and a sum equal to ten per-cent (10%)of interest from such arrears as a fine, in addition to the punishments imposable under Sub-Section (1) All sums of money charged by a court of law shall be credited to the ProvincialCouncil fund.

(3) Court of law shall order, in respect of a pawnbroker who carry out his pawn business withoutrenewing his annual licence, to pay arrears due of annual licence fees and a sum equal to tenper-cent (10%) of interest from such arrears as a fine, in addition to the punishments imposableunder sub-Section (1) All sums of money charged by a court of law shall be credited to theProvincial Council fund.

(4) Where a pawnbroker is convicted for an offence committed - under Section 40, in addition toany other punishment imposed for such offence, the court should order such pledge to bedelivered to the owner in the presence of court or in any other manner which the court maydirect in addition to the punishment under sub-Section (1) above.

(5) When convicted for an offence under Section 41 in addition to any other punishment imposedfor such offence, the court should order to pay an equal amount of such sum of money, in themanner of recovering a fine from such pawnbroker, in addition to any punishment imposedunder sub-Section (1).

(6) The court has the authority to order the closure of pawn business of a pawnbroker in additionto punishments imposable under sub-Section (1).

45.Whenever it is reported to a court of law that in any legal action filed under this Statute that apawnbroker is in unlawful possession of an article or several articles, then the court of law shallorder such article or articles to be produced before the court and make suitable orders that maybe considered necessary and under such orders if any, the court in empowered to order sucharticle or articles to be delivered to any person named by such court

CHAPTER - IXTRANSFER AND CLOSURE OF BUSINESS

46.(1)Where a business of a pawnbroker is carried out by a single person, and if he intends toconvey it to someone after his death a legal document shall be prepared containing obligationsand be produced when applying for registration for lecence. However such person shall bequalified to the issues a licence to carry on a pawn business under this statute.

(2) Where a business of a pawnbroker is carried out by a single person, and after his death whenthe person entitled to carry on the business is found to be dead, a legal document containingobligatory conditions, signed by the other person for and on behalf of deceased person, shallbe forwarded to the Commissioner of Revenue for registration.

(3) When no conveyance is made or the proposed conveyance person does not possess thenecessary requirements to do so, under sub-Section (1) the Commissioner of Revenue shallappoint a person to liquidate the business.

(4) Where a pawnbroker is unable to carry on his business owing to any disability or any otherreason, person who safisfies the Commissioner of Revenue that he is qualified to be issued alicence to carry on the business shall be conveyed with the assets and liabilities of suchbusiness after obtaining the prior approval of the Chief Secretary.

When a pawnbroker business is conveyed accordingly the licence issued by the Commissionerof Revenue which is currently valid, shall be treated as a licence having been issued to theperson to whom the assets and liabilities have been conveyed.

13AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

Further such person shall be subject to all determinations under this Statute with effect fromthe date of such conveyance.

(5) Where a pawn business is to be carried out on partnership basis, there shall be provisions inthe partnership agreement to protect the rights of pawners, when liquidating such business. Ifthe Commissioner is of opinion that such provisions have not been included in the partnershipagreement the issue of licence shall be refused.

47.(1)Where any person who carry on a pawn business intends to transfer such business a writtenrequest shall be forwarded to the Commissioner prior to three months.

(a) When any person makes a written request to the Commission under sub-Section (1)within seven days of such request, a public notice, mentioning the name and addressalong with the National Identity Card number of the person intended to be conveyedwith the business shall be published in the business place and in the daily newspapersin all the three languages.

(b) Wherever a written request is received for conveyance of a business the Commissionershall within seven days, inform the pawnbroker in writing -

(i) to stop accepting articles on pawn from a specific date;

(ii) to obtain and forward from the officer in charge of the police station where thebusiness place is situated, and from the officer in charge of the Police Station wherethey permanent reside, certificates to the effect that there are no complaints againstthe pawnbroker and the conveys.

(iii) to forward an affidavit that there is no legal action filed in courts against the pawnbrokerand the conveyer.

(iv) to forward all information in respect of all pledges remain to be redeemed and anyother information considered necessary.

(v) to forward an affidavit that the conveyer shall perform his functions according toprovisions of this statute from the date of conveyance of such business to him.

(c) If a person who is bound to make a request from the Commissioner of Revenue underthis Section is physically and mentally in a disabled condition and if such business is asingle individual owned business such request may be made by an authorized agent ofsuch person. If it is in case of a partnership business, any other partner, and in the caseof a limited company other Director or the Secretary may make such request.

(2) The Commissioner of Revenue shall inform his decision in writing to the person who make therequest for conveyance of a pawn business under sub-Section (1) above within three monthsfrom the date of receiving such request.

48.(1)Any person carrying on a pawn business, intends to liquidate his business, a written requestshall be forwarded to Commissioner of Revenue before three months.

(2) When a person makes a written request to the Commissioner of Revenue under sub-Section(1) within seven days of such request, a public notice, mentioning such persons’ name andaddress, number of the National Identity Card and numbers of the licence of the pawn businessshall be published in his business place and in the daily news papers in the all the threelanguages regarding the liquidation of his business.

Conveyable ofa business

Liquidation ofbusiness

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201514A

(a) Where a written request is received for liquidation of busines the Commissioner ofRevenue shall within seven days inform the pawnbroker -

(i) to stop taking articles on pawn from a specific date;

(ii) to obtain and forward from the officer in charge of the Police Station where thebusiness place is situated, and from the officer in charge of the Police Station wherethey permanent reside, a certificate to the effect that there are no complaints againsthim.

(iii) to forward all information in respect of all pledges remain to be redeemed and anyother information considered necessary.

(iv) to forward an affidavit that he will carry on the business until the date of redeemingthe last pledge.

(b) Where a person who is bound to make a request from the Commissioner of Revenueunder this Section is physically and mentally in a disabled condition, and if such businessis a single individual owned, business, such request may be made by an authorizedagent of such peroson. If it is in case of a partnership any other partner, and in the caseof a limited company, other Director or the Secretary may make such request.

(3) The Commissioner of Revenue shall inform his decision in writing to such person, for liquidationof pawn business under sub-Section above within three months from the date of receivingsuch request.

49.(1)Whereupon the death of a person who carries on a pawn business under a licence issued uponthis Statute, all money and charges payable in respect of all time periods immediately before hisdeath, he had been living, shall be executed by his executors who shall be responsible for allactions, matters and things of the deseased under this Statute.

Provided however -

(a) No legal action shall be filled against executors in respect of any action or default of thedeceased person.

(b) An executor shall not be ordered to pay any sum money payable in respect of anyperiod before the death of such person after the expiry of three years from the date ofhis death.

(c) The responsibility of an executor under this section shall be limited to -

(i) Estate of the deceased person which the executor possessed and was under hiscontrol at the date of delivery of such notice to him regarding any binding arisingunder the provisions of this statute.

(ii) To an amount of any share a beneficiary may receive from such property estate.

CHAPTER - XMAKING REGULATIONS

50.(1)The Minister may make regulations to activate the provisions of this statute from time to timein respect of the under mentioned matters.

(a) Registration fees to carry on a pawn business under sub-Section 8(3)

Death of aowner of abusiness

Enforcingregulations

15AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

(b) Annual licensing fees, and security deposit to be furnished by a licencee, and the mannerof depositing security fees under sub-Section 10(2).

(2) All regulations made under sub-Section (1) shall be effective from the date of publication in theGazette or from a later date which may be specifically mentioned in that regulation and suchorder shall be forwarded to the Provincial Council by a proposal as soon as possible from thedate it is published in the Gazette.

(3) Any regulations when refuses to be approval by the Provincial Council, such regulation shallbe considered null and void from the date of such refused without any harmful effect to thesame up to the date of such refusal; and there shall be published a notification in the Gazettein respect of the date on which such regulation is considered null and void.

CHAPTER - XIRECOVERY OF AMOUNTS IN ARREARS

51.(1)For the purpose of this chapter “Arrears of money” includes any amount of security payableby a pawnbroker or any arrears of fees under Section 8 (4) (5) or any sum of money payableunder sub-Sections 10(3), 28(1) (2) and Section 31.

(2) Commissioner of Revenue shall inform the pawnbroker by registered for payment of an amountin arrears before a date specifically mentioned in the notice and action shall be taken to recoversuch an unpaid amount as a defaulted amount in arrears.

(3) (a) When there is a default of payment an amount under sub-Section (2) the Commissionerof Revenue before taking action to recover such amount in any manner according toforegoing provisions a letter or a notice shall be issued to the defaulter under registeredpost stating -

(i) the details of the amount in arrears.

(ii) the intention of taking action to recover the amount in arrears.

(b) Such person in receipt of a notice issued by the Commissioner of Revenue undersub-Section (3) (a) may forward any objection if any within two weeks of the date ofreceipt of such notice and the Commissioner shall consider such objection and shallinform his decision in writing such decision shall be final and conclusive.

52.(1)For the purpose of recovering any amount of arrears payable under this Statute, theCommissioner of Revenue may issue a certificate, to the magistrate of the court havingjurisdiction over the division on which the place is situated, showing the amount of arrears andthe name of person who defaulted the payment of arrears and his last place of residence. Thenthe magistrate shall summon before him the person who defaulted such payment to showcause why legal proceedings shall not be taken against him and to present any such reasonsif any. If such person fail to show ample reasons for defaulting such payment, for an offencepunishable by imposing only a fine or by imprionment, or for an offence not punishable byimprisonment, it shall be considered as a fine imposed upon defaulted person by the magistrateand provisions of sub-Section (1) of Section 291 except paragraph (a) (b) of the Penal Code No.15 of 1979, there-upon shall apply in respect of defaulting payment of a fine imposed uponsuch person. And the magistrate may make any direction which by the provision of thatsection, he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201516A

(2) Nothing under sub-Section (1) shall authorize or require the magistrate in any proceeding thereunder to question the correctness of a certificate or statement of the Commissioner of Revenue.Accordingly anything in that section shall not be understood as having empowered themagistrate to consider or decide the correctness of such certificate or statement.

(3) Any provision of sub-Section (2) to (5) of Section 291 of the Penal Code No. 15 of 1979, shallnot apply to any situation mentioned under sub-Section (1) herein.

(4) In any situation where a defaulter is sentenced to imprisonment of account of non-payment ofa fine considered imposed under such sub-Section upon a person who has defaulted paymentas mentioned under sub-Section (1), the magistrate can give time to pay the amount or orderthat such sum of money to be paid in installments.

(5) As provided under Section (1) when a defaulted person is given time to show cause under thatSection or ordered to keep security as a pre-condition for giving him time for payment of a fineunder sub-Section (4) the provisions of chapter XXXIV of the Penal Code No. 15 of 1979 shallapply.

(6) Where a magistrate has made an order that a payment of an amount in default be paid ininstallments under sub-Section (4) and upon defaulting payments of such an installment legalproceeding shall be instituted as having defaulted all installments that remains unpaid.

(7) In any legal proceedings under sub-Section (1) the certificate of the Commissioner of Revenueshall be an ample evidence, that a proper order has been made to pay the rate and had defaultedpayments of such amounts; and any type of answers filed to showing that fees are excessiveand false and such appeals made against shall not be considered or accepted.

53.Where the Commissioner is of opinion that the recovery of an amount in arrears as providedunder Section 53 is not practicable or in not suitable, a certificate containing details of arrearsname or names of persons from whom payments are due, shall be issued to the District Court,having jurisdiction, over the area where the said defaulter resides or where a movable orimmovable property belonging to such person is situated. Then the District Court shall directand authorize the fiscal officer to issue a writ order and enter a caveat to prohibit and seize allmovable or immovable properties or any one of them owned by him, which the court shallconsider shall be necessary to recover such defaulted amount. Provisions in sections 226 to297 of Civil Procedure Code with necessary changes shall apply in respect of such prohibitionand sale.

For the purpose of this Section movable property includes equipment and machinery.

CHAPTER - XIIGENERAL CONDITIONS

54.(1)For the purpose of this Statute the Commissioner of Revenue by written notice require anyperson to -

(i) Produce specified books, accounts trading lists stock lists, registers, vouchers, chequebooks, pawn tickets, pledge books, audit reports or any other documents mentionedin such notice, owned by such person, within a specified period of time.

(ii) Supply any information

(iii) Be present at a time, date and place mentioned in the notice, by himself or to berepresented by an authorized person to check any matter or any matters.

Authority forrequiringinformation

17AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

(2) When a notice is served upon any person to furnish any information mentioned undersub-Section (i) and (iii) such person shall act in accordance with such directions contrary towhatever is mentioned under any other written law.

(3) Any books, accounts, trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawntickets, pledge books, audit reports, or other documents when produced to the Commissionerof Revenue, or when being produced or taken into his possession by any other manner, as andWhen required to be kept in his possession for a certain period, for purposes of this Statutethey may be kept in his possession in terms of such requirement.

(4) Any notice sent by post shall be considered as having after handed over the laps of after 3days from the date of posting.

55. Filling any legal action for any offence under this Statute shall not be done without theapproval of the Commissioner of Revenue.

56. The Commissioner of Revenue shall determine from time to time the forms to be used for thepurpose of performing duties under this statute. The Commissioner may amend or alter fromtime to time the forms and or registers so determined or substitute any other forms or registersso determined.

57. Every person appointed under this Statute or considered to have been appointed so, or everyperson employed or being employed to assist any person for the purpose of carrying out or tocarry out the functions and provisions under this Statute, shall protect and safeguard thesecrecy in respect iof all matters known to him concerning any person’s duties and activitiesperformed under provision of this Statute, except when, in the performance of his own dutiesand such fact or information shall not be conveyed to anyone except to the person to whom itis relevant or to his authorized representative, or to the Minister, or to the Secretary of theMinistry of Finance, or to his authorized representative and shall not allow and keep room, orpermit any person to obtain any document whatsoever in the possession, custody and in thecontrol of the Commissioner of Revenue.

58. Any function or anything whatever is authorized to be exercised by a pawnbroker, under thisStatute may be so exercised by a servant or an agent of a pawnbroker with his permission.

59. Any authority function or duty stipulated under this Statute may be carried out and exercisedby a Deputy Commissioner, Assessor and Public Officer with the written authority grantedunder the signature of the Commissioner of Revenue any authority, function or duty delegatedto the Commissioner of Revenue as mentioned is this Statute may be withdrawn an acquiredback to him.

60. For the purpose of issuning alicence to any person to carrying on the business of pawnbrokeror any prosecution instituted against any person for any offence unde this Statute theresponsibility of proving that such person is a citizen of Sri Lnka, or is not a foreign companion,foreign firm, shall be vested with such person.

61. For the purpose of this Statute any person who, purchases or receives or takes in goods andpays, or advances or lends thereon any sum of money under an agreement or understandingrepressed or implied, or be form the nature and character of the transaction reasonably inferredthat those goods may be redeemed or purchased on any conditions; or who maintain a shopfor the purchase or sale of goods or for taking goods by way or security for money advancedthereon; shall be considered as a person carrying on the pawn business and further everysuch transaction, article payment advance and loan shall be deemed a pawning, pledge andloan within this Statute.

Delegation ofpowers underthis Statute

Burden ofproving

Shop keepersdeemed to beas Pawnbrokers

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201518A

62. Not withstanding anything contained adversely in this statute,

(a) It shall be considered that any licence issued under the Pawn Brokers Ordinance (Chapter99) is within the Central Province.

(b) It shall be assumed that the provisions complied under this Statute shall be treated asthe substitute provisions in case of detachment of any provisions in the said Ordinance.

(c) It shall be assumed that any case filed in a court under the Ordinance, prior to the dateof proceed or in case of an order delivered by a Magistrate shall be treated as the casefiled under the Statute and the order delivered under this Statute.

CHAPTER - XIIIINTERPRETATIONS

63. In this Statute, unless the contest otherwise requires -

“Governor” means the Governor of Central Province.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in the Central ProvincialCouncil.

“Chief Secretary” means the Chief secretary to the Central Province.

“Central Province Revenue Commissioner” mean the Commissioner of Revenue of the CentralProvince, appointed for the purpose of this Statute and the interpretation in the FinanceStatute No. 17 of 1990 applies.

“Police Officer” means the officer in charge of the Police Station in the area where the businessplace is situated.

“Deputy Commissioner” means the interpretation mentioned in the Finance Statute No. 17 of1990, of the Central Province.

“Valuer” means the interpretation mentioned in the Finance Statute No. 17 of 1990 of theCentral Province.

“Foreign Company” means any company or board of individuals incorporated outside SriLanka and is any company or board of individuals that -

(a) Establish a business place within Sri Lanka after specified date.

Establish a business place within Sri Lanka before specified date and continuouslymaintain a business place in Sri Lanka.

“Specified date” means the date of enforcing this Statute.

“Sri Lankan Citizen” means any individual who by birth or prevailing law becomes a citizen ofSri Lanka.

“District” means the administrative District.

“Foreign Firm” means a firm -

(i) Consisting of two partners, one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or both of whomare not Sri Lankans; or

(ii) Consisting of more than two partners at lease one of whom is not a citizen of SriLanka.

19AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

“Month” means a period of 30 days for the purpose of charging profits and interest.

“Calender Year” means period commencing from 1st January and ending on 31st December ofevery year.

“Financial Year” means period commencing from 1st April and ending on 31st March of everyyear.

“Person” means any individual Board of individuals, company or Department.

“Pawner” means a person delivering an article for pawn to a pawnbroker.

“Pledge” means an article pawned with a pawnbroker.

“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Central Province.

“Provincial Council Fund” means the Provincial Council Fund of the Central Provinceestablished under Section (19) of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.

“Business Place” means a House, Store house, Shop, Company, Joint business, Partnershipbusiness and place where business activities are carried out and any of the places where suchbranches are maintained.

“Unfinished goods” includes any goods of any manufacture of branch of any manufacture,either mixed or separate or any materials, whatsoever, intended for composing or manufactureof any goods after such goods or materials are put into a state of manufacture, and before thesame are completed or finished for the purpose of wearing or consumptions.

“Executor” means a executor of a deceased person or an administrator and includes -

(a) A person who is in custody of a deceased person’s property or who makes use of suchproperty.

(b) A person who has made submission to District Court to issue a probate certificate oradministrator certificate in respect of the estate of a deceased person.

(c) Trustee who acts upon a trusteeship of a last will.

“Sub-agent” a person who is in charge of operation, administration and management of abusiness for all on behalf of any other person.

“Authorized agent” means for the purpose of this Statute a person authorized in writing to acton his behalf and an individual is -

(i) A relation of his in respect of an individual;

(ii) A partnership in respect of a partnership business;

(iii) A director or secretary in respect of company;

(iv) A member of a board of individuals in respect of a board of individuals;

(v) A member of the Sri Lanka Chartered Accountant Institute;

(vi) An Attorney at law.

“Registered Bank” means a licensed Commercial Bank as defined means in the Banking Act, of 1988.

64. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Statute theSinhala text shall prevail.in anyinconsistancythe Sinhala textto prevail

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201520A

(Section 04)FIRST SCHEDULEForm - “A”LICENCE

Number: .........................................................

I, the Commissioner of Central Provincial Revenue do hereby issue a licence under provisions of the Pawnbrokers Ordinanceof the Central Province, No............................... to carry-out a Pawnbrokers business at the.........................................................................................................................................................................................................addressto ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................of .................................................................................................................................................................................................................

The validity of this licence expires on ......................................................

Date: .......................................................... .................................................................Commissioner of Provincial Revenue

(Rubber Stamp)

(Section 19)

Form - “B”

PLEDGE BOOK

Pledge Book of ................................................................................. Pawn broker of .........................................................................

No. and date of the issue of pawn tickets

No. of pledge in the month

Amount of Loan upon each article

Profit of interest charged upon each article

Name of Pawner

Addresses of Pawner

Name of owner it Pawner is not the owner

Description of Each article Pawned

Weight of article it jewellery

Value of each article Pawned

Date of redemption

Name and address of person redeeming

Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.

21AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

(Section 19)Form - “C”

SALE BOOK OF PLEDGES

Pledge Book of ................................................................................. Pawn broker of .........................................................................

Date and Place of Sale: ........................................................................................................

Name and address of Auctioneer: ........................................................................................................

No. ofDate ofName ofAmount ofAmount ofAmount forName &Pledge as inPawningPawnerLoaninterest duewhich pledgeAddress ofpledgewas sold byPurchaserBookAuctioneer

Rs. CtsRs. CtsRs. Cts

(Section 20)

Form - “D”

PAWN RECEIPT

Counter foil No. ........................................Original foil No. ............................................(to be retained by pawnbroker)Date: ..................................................................................................................................Date: ...........................................................................................................(Name and address of pawner) has thisday pawned with the undersignedName and address of pawnbroker

.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................(Name and address of pawn broker)I, ......................................................................................................................................the undersigned holding National Identityworth Rs. ..........................................forCard No. .........................................................Rs. ...........................................................of (address of Pawner)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................Signature of Pawnbroker or Servant orhave this day pawned with the aforesaidAgent of pawnbroker.pawnbroker ....................................................Name .....................................................................................................................................................................................................worth Rs. ........................................................Signature .................................................for Rs. .............................................................(Left thumb impression if unable to sign)..................................................Signature.

(Rubber Stamp)

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201522A

(Section 24)

Form - “E”

DECLARATION WHERE THE FOIL OF THE PAWN RECEIPT IS SURRENDERED UNDER SECTION 24WITHOUT THE SIGNATURE OF THE PAWNER ENDORSED THEREON

I, ............................................................................... holding National Identity Card No./ Passport No. ...................... of ........................................................................................................(A/B) in pursuance of Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerelydeclare that ........................................................... pledge at the shop of ............................................. Pawnbroker, the article/articlesdescribed below and received the foil of a pawn receipts for the same and that for the purpose of redeeming the pledge, I amunable to surrender the foil of the pawn receipt to the Pawn broker with the signature of the said (Pawner) duly endorsedthereon, because the said ..................................... (Pawner) is dead/Under a legal disability to wit ............................................(natureof legal disability).

Signature of “A” “B” .........................................

The article/ Articles abovereferred to is/are .....................................................................................................................................

I, (‘‘C ”, “D”) ............................................... in pursuance of the provisions of the said Statute, do solemly and sincerely declarethat I know the person making the foregoing declaration to be (‘‘A ”, “B”) .................................................................... of ..............................................................................................................................................

Signature of “C ”, “D”.........................................................

Declared before me this .............................. day of 20 .................................................................

............................................................Justice of Peace.(Rubber Stamp)

23AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015

(Section 26)Form - “F”

DECLARATION WHERE THE FOIL OF THE PAWN RECEIPT IS LOST ETC.

Take, if this Declaration is false the person making the Declaration is punishable.

I, ............................................................................... holding National Identity Card No./ Passport No. ...................... of ........................................................................................................(A/B) in pursuance of Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerelydeclare that ........................................................... pledge at the shop of ............................................. Pawnbroker, the article/articles described below and received the foil of a pawn receipts for the same and that for the purpose of redeeming thepledge, I am unable to surrender the foil of the pawn receipt to the Pawn broker with the signature of the said (Pawner) dulyendorsed thereon, because the said ..................................... (Pawner) is dead/Under a legal disability to wit............................................(nature of legal disability).

Signature of “A” “B” .........................................The article/ Articles abovereferred to is/are .....................................................................................................................................

I, (‘‘C ”, “D”) ............................................... in pursuance of the provisions of the said Statute, do solemly and sincerely declarethat I know the person making the foregoing declaration to be (‘‘A ”, “B”) .................................................................... of ..............................................................................................................................................

Signature of ‘‘C ”, “D”.........................................................

Declared before me this .............................. day of 20 .................................................................

............................................................Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oath(Rubber Stamp)

(Section 31)Form - “G”

RECEIPTDate: ......................................

Received on redemption of pledge No. ...................................................................................................................................................

Rs. Cts.Rs. Cts.

Amount of Loan........................................................

Profit or interest........................................................

Business Turnover Tax........................................................

............................................................Pawn broker’s Signature

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.201524A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

(Section 20)SECOND SCHEDULE

Rate of InterestThe rate of interest on every rupee or a fraction of a rupee lent shall be two cents for every month or part thereof.

Payment of TaxWhere a tax under any written Law is payable by the Pawnbroker on a Loan granted upon a pledge, such tax may berecovered from the pawner.

Restricting recovery of entranced interestWhere Pawnbroker is entitled to enhanced interest as from any date, such enhanced interest shall not be recoverable,if the pawner shows to the satisfaction of a Civil Court, having jurisdiction, that he failed to redeem the pledgebefore such date, on account of the reason that the pawnbroker’s shop remained closed between 8.00 a. m. and 8.00p.m. on the day preceding such date.

If the pledge relating to the pawn ticket is not redeemed within a period of twelve months from the day of pawningit is liable to be sold by Public auction.

If there be any surplus profit realized at the sale and is not claimed by the pawner within one year from the date ofsuch sale, the said profit shall be deposited to the credit of the pawner in the Provincial Council Fund.

(Section 32)

THIRD SCHEDULE

Regulations relating to Auction of Pledges

(1) The auctioneer shall cause all pledges to be exposed to Public view.

(2) Auctioneer shall publish catalogue of the pledges containing -

(a) The pawn broker’s name and place of the business

(b) The month in which each pledge was pawned.

(c) The number of each pledge as entered in the pledge book at the time of pawning.

(3) The pledges of each Pawnbroker in the catalogue book shall be shown separately from any pledges of anyother Pawnbroker.

(4) The Auctioneer shall give notice of the sale by publishing advertising in at least one each of Sinhala, Tamiland English Newspapers and notices shall be displayed in places people gather within the area where the saleis to be held. Such advertisements shall include following particulars.

(a) the pawnbroker’s name and place of business; and

(b) the month in which the pledges were pawned.

(5) The advertisement shall be published on two days in the same news papers, and the second advertisementshall be published at lease ten clear days before the first day of sale.

(6) Whenever a Pawnbroker bids at a sale, the auctioneer shall not take the bidding in any other form, than thatin which he takes the biddings of other persons at the same sale. And when a pawnbroker buys an article theauctioneer shall forthwith declare audibly the name of the Pawnbroker as the purchasing the said article.

(7) The auctioneer shall within 14 days, deliver to the pawnbroker a copy of the catalogue, relating to the pledgesof that pawnbroker giving the amount for which the pledges of that pawnbroker were sold and authenticatedby his signature.

(8) The Pawnbroker shall preserve every such catalogue at lease for two years after the auction.

07 - 615