==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2104$4 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks i÷od - 2018'12'31No. 2104/4 - MONDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 24 OF 2017

Regulations under Section 194 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

REGULATIONS made under Section 194 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 (hereinafter referred as the Act) forthe purpose of Section 76, 77 and 78 of the Act.

These regulations operate effective from April 1, 2018 and rescind the Regulations published in the GazetteExtraordinary No. 1823/5 of August 12, 2013, effective from the same date.

MANGALA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Finance and Mass Media. Colombo 01,December 31, 2018.

REGULATIONS ON TRANSFER PRICING

Short Title and Commencement

These regulations may be cited as the Regulations on Transfer Pricing No. 1 of 2018 and come into operationwith effect from April 01, 2018.

1. Transfer Pricing Regulations apply to International Transactions referred to in Section 76 and to the followingcases of transactions other than international transactions made between associated enterprises referred to inSection 77 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017:

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4341 — 117 (01/2019)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20182A

(a) If there are tax exemptions granted to any one of the associated enterprises under the Inland Revenue Act,No. 38 of 2000 or Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 or No. 24 of 2017 or under the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978 ; or

(b) If any difference between income tax rates specified in any of the Schedules to the Act or any income taxrate given in the agreement entered into under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978 isapplicable to any one of the associated enterprises ; or

(c) If any loss incurred by any of the associated enterprises for the year of assessment or immediately precedingyears of assessment which has been brought forward to that year of assessment.

2. Arm’s Length Price.- The arm’s length price, referred to in Section 76 and Section 77 of the Act for the purposeof ascertaining income, gain or profits arising in, derived or accruing from or losses incurred in any transaction,operation or scheme entered into between two associated enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the controlledtransaction) should be calculated in accordance with the arm’s length principle. The arm’s length principle shall beunderstood as that where a transaction between associated enterprises is carried out taking into account the termsand conditions that would have been used in transcations with or between independent enterprises.

(A) The arm’s length price shall be determined by the application of the most appropriate method to thefacts and circumstances of the case from any of the methods outlined below :

(a) Comparable Uncontrolled Price Method

The comparable uncontrolled price method consists of comparing the price charged for property orservices transferred in a controlled transaction to the price charged for property or services transferredin a comparable uncontrolled transaction.

Under this method,

(i) the price charged or paid for property transferred or services provided in a comparableuncontrolled transaction, or a number of such transactions, is identified ;

(ii) such price is adjusted to account for differences, if any between the controlled transaction andcomparable uncontrolled transactions or between the enterprises entering into such transactions,which could materially affect the price in the open market ;

(iii) the adjusted price so arrived at is taken to be an arm’s length price in respect of the propertytransferred or services provided in the controlled transcations.

(b) Resale Price Method

The resale price method consists of comparing the resale margin that a purchaser of property in acontrolled transaction earns from reselling that property with the resale margin that is earned incomparable uncontrolled purchase and resale transaction.

Under this method,

(i) the price at which property purchased by the tested enterprise from an associated enterprise isresold to any person, is identified ;

(ii) such resale price is reduced by an appropriate gross profit margin accruing to the tested enterprisebased on the gross profit margins that would be earned in comparable uncontrolled transactions,with or between unrelated enterprises ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20183A

(iii) the price so arrived at is further reduced by the expenses incurred by the tested enterprise inconnection with the purchase of property ;

(iv) the price so arrived at is adjusted to take into account the functional and other differences,including differences in accounting practices, if any, between the controlled transaction and thecomparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises entering into such transactions,which could materially affect the amount of gross profit margin in the open market ;

(v) the adjusted price arrived at under sub-paragraph (iv) of this paragraph is taken to be an arm’slength price in respect of the purchase of the property by the tested enterprise from the associatedenterprise.

(c) Cost Plus Method

The cost plus method consists of comparing the mark up on those costs directly and indirectly incurredin the supply of property or services in a controlled transaction with the mark up on those costs directlyand indirectly incurred in the supply of property or services in a comparable uncontrolled transaction.

Under this method,

(i) the direct an indirect costs of production incurred by the tested enterprise in respect of propertytransferred or services provided to an associated enterprise, are determined ;

(ii) the amount of an appropriate gross profit mark-up to such costs (computed according to thesame accounting norms) arising from the transfer or provision of the same or simillar propertyor services by the tested enterprise, or by an unrelated enterprise, in a comparable uncontrolledtransaction, or a number of such transactions, is determined ;

(iii) the appropriate gross profit mark-up referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph is adjustedto take into account the functional and other differences, if any between the controlled transactionand the comparable uncontrolled tranactions, or between the enterprises entering into suchtransactions, which could materially affect such proift mark-up in the open market ;

(iv) the costs referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph are increased by the adjusted profitmark-up arrived at under sub-paragraph (iii) of this paragraph ;

(v) the sum so arrived at is taken to be an arm’s length price in relation to the supply of the propertyor provision of services by the tested enterprise.

(d) Transactional Net Margin Method

The transactional net margin method consists of comparing the net profit margin relative to anappropriate base, such as costs, sales or assets that a person achieves in a controlled transaction withthe net profit margin relative to the same base achieved in comparable uncontrolled transations.

Under this method,

(i) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise from a transaction entered into with anassociated enterprise is computed in relation to costs incurred or sales effected or assets employedby the tested enterprise or having regard to any other relevant base ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20184A

(ii) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise or by an unrelated enterprise from acomparable uncontrolled transaction or a number of such transactions is computed having regardto the same basis ;

(iii) the net profit margin referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph arising in comparableuncontrolled transactions is adjusted to take into account the differences, if any, between thetansaction and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the enterprises enteringinto such transactions, which could materially affect the amount of net profit margin in the openmarket ;

(iv) the net profit margin realized by the tested enterprise and referred to in sub-paragrph (i) of thisparagraph is established to be the same as the net profit margin referred to in sub-paragraph (iii)of this paragraph ;

(v) the net profit margin thus established is then taken into account to arrive at an arm’s length pricein relation to the transaction.

(e) Profit Split Method

This method may be applicable mainly where special conditions have been made or imposed in controlledtransactions or in multiple transactions which are so interrelated that they cannot be evaluated separatelyfor the purposoe of determining the arm’s length price of any transaction, by which

(i) the combined net profits of the associated enterprises arising from the transction in which theyare engaged, are determined ;

(ii) the relative contributions made by each of the associated enterprises to the earning of suchcombined net profits are then calculated based upon a reasonable approximation of the divisionof profits that independent entrerprises would have expected to realize from engaging incomparable transactions on the basis of the functions performed, assets employed and risksassumded by each enterprise ;

(iii) the combined net profits are then split amongst the enterprises in proportion to their relativecontributions ;

(iv) the profit thus apportioned to the tested enterprise is taken into account to arrive at an arm’slength price in relation to the controlled transaction ;

Provided that the combined net profits referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph may, inthe first instance, be partially allocated to each enterprise so as to provide it with a basic returnappropriate for the type of routine functionality in which it is engaged, with reference to marketreturns achieved for similar types of functions by independent enterprises, and thereafter, theresidual net profit remaing after such allocation may be split amongst the enterprises in proportionto their unique and valuable contributions, and in such a case the aggregate of the net profitallocated to the tested enterprise in the first instance together with the residual net profitapportioned to that tested enterprise on the basis of its unique and valuable contributions shall betaken to be the net profit arising to that tested enterprises from the controlled transaction.

Provided that where there are two or more independent transactions, all being equally comparable tothe controlled transaction entered into between associated enterprises, a range of prices or profitmargins may be obtained derived from the application of the most appropriate method. This arm’slength range shall be used to calculate the arm’s length price.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20185A

(B) Arm’s Length Range

An arm’s length range is a range of relevant financial indicator figures (e. g. prices or margins) produced bythe application of the most appropriate transfer pricing method as set out in this regulation, to a number ofuncontrolled transcations with a relatively equal degree of comparability to the controlled transaction basedon a comparability anylysis conducted in accordance with Regulation 3. For the purpose of this paragraphfourtieth to sixtieth percentile is considered to be the arm’s length range.

Where the actual price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprises is within the arm’s lengthrange, the actural price shall be treated as the arm’s length price for such transaction.

Where the actual price for a controlled transaction between associated enterprirses is not within the arm’slength range, the median in the arm’s length range shall be treated as the arm’s length price for such transcation.For the purposes of this paragraph, the median of the arm’s length range shall be the 50th percentile of thefinancial indicator figures derived from the comparable uncontrolled transactions forming the arm’s lengthrange.

3. Comparability Factors - For the purposes of Regulation 2, the comparability of a controlled transaction betweenassociated enterprises with uncontrolled transactions shall be judged with reference to the following.

(a) the contractual terms (whether or not such terms are formal or in writing) of the controlled transactionwhich lay down explicitly or implicitly how the responsibilities, risks and benefits are to be divided betweenthe respective parties to such transctions ;

(b) the functions performed, taking into account assets employed and the risks assumed, by the respective partiesto such transactions ;

(c) the specific characteristics of the property transferred or services provided in such transaction ;

(d) the economic circumstances and business strategies related to such transactions between associatedenterprises, specifying the conditions prevailing in the markets in which the respective associated enterprisesto such transactions operate, including the geographical location and size of the markets, the laws andGovernment orders in force, costs of labour and capital in the markets, overall economic development andlevel of competition and whether the markets are wholesale or retail, among other.

4. Comparability. - An uncontrolled transaction shall be comparable to a controlled transaction, if ;

(i) none of the differences, if any, between the transaction being compared, are likely to materially affect theconditions being examined in the methodology (e. g. price or profit margin) ; or

(ii) resonable accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the material effect of such differences.

The data to be used in analyzing the comparability of an uncontrolled transaction with a controlled transcationshall be the data relating to the year of assessment in which such transaction has been entered into.

Provided that data relating to a period not being more than two years prior to such year of assessment may also beconsidered if such data reveals facts which could have an influence on the determination of transfer prices inrelation to the transactions being compared.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20186A

5. Most Appropriate Method

(a) For the purposes of Regulation 2, the most appropriate method shall be the method which is best suited tothe facts and circumstances of each particular controlled transction between associated enterprises, andwhich provides the most reliable measure of an arm’s length price in relation to such transaction.

(b) In selecting the most appropriate method, the follwoing factors shall be taken into account, namely ;

(i) the nature and class of such transcation based on the functions performed, the assets employed andrisks assumed by associated enterprises entering into such transaction ;

(ii) the availability, coverage and reliability of data (in particular on uncontrolled comparable transactions)necessary for the application of the method ;

(iii) the degree of comparability existing between controlled transaction and the uncontrolled transcations ;

(iv) the extent to which reliable and accurate adjustments can be made to account for differences, if any,between controlled transcation and the comparable uncontrolled transactions.

6. Transfer Pricing Documentation and Disclosure Form - Enterprises carrying out controlled transactions withassociated enterprises subject to Section 76 and 77, as the case may be, must maintain documents and submitinformation regarding controlled transactions, including information on those associated enterprises, as follows.

(a) Preparing and Maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation

Enterprises carrying out controlled transaction with associated enterpises subject to Section 76 and/or 77,as the case may be, shall be responsible for preparing and maintining transfer pricing documentationincluding :

(i) Local File referring specifically to material and controlled transcations of the local taxpayer, accordingto Annexure I ;

(ii) Master File containing standardised information relevant for all the members of a multinational group,according to Annexure II ;

(iii) Country-by-Country Report containing certain information relating to the global allocation of themultinational group’s income and taxes paid together with certain indicators of the location of economicactivity within the group, according to Annexure III.

The Local File referred to in the above item (i) is to be prepared and maintained by those enterprisesthat carry out controlled transcations or each category of controlled transactions with associatedenterprises exceed Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR) 200 million for each year of assessment as recorded inth books of account. The local file must be prepared in English in the case of international transactions.The Local file should be kept available for a period of six years from the end of the relevant year ofassessment, and it should include the information specified in Annexure I of this Regulation (Thetransaction here does not include dividened and granting or repayment of loan capital)

The Master File referred to in the above item (ii) is to be prepared and maintained by those enterprisesthat have declared revenue whose value exceeds LKR 7.5 billion for each year of assessment as recordedin the books of account. The Master file which is maintained in English should include the informationspecified in Annexure II of this Regulation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20187A

The Country-by-Country Report referred to in above item (iii) is to be prepared and filed according toparagraph (e) of this Regulation.

(b) Non Requirement of Maintaining Fresh Documents

Where any controlled transaction continues to have effect over more than one year of assessment, freshdocumentation need not be maintained separately in respect of each year of assessment, unless there is anysignificant change in the nature or terms of such transction, in the assumptions made, or in any other factowhich could influence the transfer price, and in case of such significant change, fresh documentation as maybe necessary under this Regulation shall be maintained bringing out the impact of change on the pricing ofsuch transcation.

In case the taxpayer’s operation reflects no significant change, the searches in databases for comparablesshould be updated every three years instead of annually. Financial data for the comparables should nonethelessbe updated every year in order to apply the arm’s length principle reliably.

Notwithstanding the above, the substantial obilgation of complying with the arm’s length principle in controlledtransactions with associated entreprises remains mandatory for all taxpayers and therefore, they shall berequired to substantiate on the basis of documents mentioned in above paragraph (a) or on the basis of anyother material available with them when the notice is sent to the taxpayer.

(c) Submission of Transfer Pricing Documentation

The transfer pricing documentation specified in Regulation 6(a)(i) and 6(a)(ii) shall be provided by thetaxpayer within 30 calendar days of the written request being duly issued by the Commissioner General ofInland Revenue (herein after referred to as Commissioner General).

The obligation of the taxpayer to provide this documentation is established without prejudice to the powerof the Commissioner General to request additional information that in the course of audit procedures itdeems necessary to carry out its functions.

(d) Preparation and Submission of Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form

Enterprises that carry out controlled transactions or categories of controlled transactions with associatedenterprises are obliged to prepare and file an annual transfer pricing disclosure form along with the Returnof Income as per the format and under the conditions disclosed in Annexure IV.

(e) Submission of Country-by-Country Report (“CbCR”) of the ultimate parent company according toAnnexure III

(I) Definitions

For purposes of paragraph (e) of this regulation the following terms have the following meanings :

(i) The term “Group” means a collection of enterprises related through ownership or control suchthat it is either required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statements for financial reportingpurposes under applicable accounting principles or would be so required if equity interests inany of the enterprises were traded on a public securities exchange.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20188A

(ii) The term “MNE Group” means any Group that :

(a) includes two or more enterprises the tax residence for which is in different jurisdiction, orincludes an enterprise that is resident for tax purposes in one jurisdiction and is subject totax with respect to the business carried out through a permanent establishment in anotherjurisdiction, and

(b) is not an Excluded MNE Group.

(iii) The term “Excluded MNE Group” means, with respect to any Fiscal Year of the Group, a Grouphaving total consolidated group revenue of less than 115 billion Sri Lankan Rupees during theFiscal Year immediately preceding the Reporting Fiscal Year as reflected in its consolidatedFinancial Statements for such preceding Fiscal Year.

(iv) The terms “Constituent Entity” means :

(a) any separate business entity of an MNE Group that is included in the Consolidated FinancialStatements of the MNE Group for financial reporting purposes, or would be so included ifequity interests in such business unit of an MNE Group were traded on a public securitiesexchange ;

(b) any such business entity that is excluded from the MNE Group’s Consolidated FinancialStatements solely on size or materiality grounds ; and

(c) any permanent establishment of an separate business entity of the MNE Group included in(a) or (b) of above item (ii) provided the business entity prepares a separate financialstatement for such permanent establishment for financial reporting, regulatory, tax reporting,or internal management control purposes.

(v) The term “Reporting Entity” means the Constituent Entity that is required to file a country-by-country report conforming to the requirements specified in sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e)of this regulation in its jurisdiction of tax residence on behalf of the MNE Group. The ReportingEntity may be the Ultimate Parent Entity, the Surrogate Parent Entity, or any entity described initem (ii) of sub paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation.

(vi) The term “Ultimate Parent Entity” means a Consituent Entity of an MNE Group that meets thefollowing criteria :

(a) it owns directly or indriectly a sufficient interest in one or more other Constituent Entitiesof such MNE Group such that it is required to prepare Consolidated Financial Statementsunder accounting principles generally applied in its jurisdiction of tax residence, or wouldbe so required if its equity interests were traded on a public securities exchange in itsjurisdiction of tax residence ; and

(b) there is no other Constituent Entity of such MNE Group that owns directly or indirectly aninsterest described in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (vi) above in the first mentionedConstituent Entity.

(vii) The term “Surrogate Parent Entity” means one Constituent Entity of the MNE Group that hasbeen appointed by such MNE Group, as a sole substitute for the Ultimate Parent Entity, to filethe Country-by-Country Report in that Constituent Entity’s jurisdiction of tax residence, onbehalf of such MNE Group, when one or more of the conditions set out in Subitem (b) of item(ii) of sub paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation applies.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.20189A

(viii) The term “Fiscal Year” means an annual accounting period with respect to which the UltimateParent Entity of the MNE Group prepares its financial statements.

(ix) The term “Reporting Fiscal Year” means that Fiscal Yar the financial and operational results ofwhich are reflected in the Country-by Country Report defined in sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph(e) of this regulation.

(x) The term “Qualifying Competent Authority Agreement” means an agreement that,

(a) is between authorised representatives of those jurisdictions that are parties to anInternational Agreement , and

(b) requires the automatic exchange of Country-by-Country Reports between the parties tothe Agreement.

(xi) The term “International Agreement” shall mean any bilateral or multilateral Agreement forMutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, any bilateral or multilateral Tax Agreement, orany Tax Information Exchange Agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party, and that by its termsprovides legal authority for the exchange of tax information between jurisdictions, includingautomatic exchange of such information.

(xii) The term “Consolidated Financial Statements” means the financial statements of an MNEGroup in which the assets, liabilties, income, expenses and cash flows of the Ultimate ParentEntity and the Constituent Entitis are presented as those of a single economic entity.

(xiii) The term “Systemic Failure” with respect to a jurisdiction means that a jurisdiction has aQualifying Competent Authority Agreement in effect with Sri Lanka, but has suspended automaticexchange (for reasons other than those that are in accordance with the terms of that Agreement)or otherwise persistently failed to automatically provide to Sri Lanka Country-by-Country Reportsin its possession of MNE Groups that have Constituent Entities in Sri Lanka.

(II) Filing Obligation

(i) Each Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lankashall file a Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV)of paragraph (e) of this regulation with the Commissioner General of the Inland Revenue withrespect to its Reporting Fiscal Year on or before the date specified in sub-paragraph (V) ofparagraph (e) of this regulation.

(ii) A Constituent Entity which is not the Ultimate Parent Entity of an MNE Group shall file asCountry-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph(e) of this regulation with the Commissioner General of the Inland Revenue with respect to theReporting Fiscal Year of an MNE Group of which it is a Constituent Entity, on or before the datespecified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this regulation if the following criteria aresatisfied :

(a) the entity is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka and

(b) one of the following conditions applies :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201810A

(aa) the Ultimate Parent Entity of the MNE Group is not obligated to file a Country-by-CountryReport in its jurisdiction of tax residence ; or

(bb) the jurisdiction in which th Ultimate Parent Entity is resident for tax purposes has a currentInternational Agreement to which Sri Lanka is a party but does not have a QualifyingCompetent Authority Agreement in effect to which Sri Lanka is a party by the time specifiedin sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation for filing the Country-by-CountryReport for the Reporting Fiscal Year ; or

(cc) there has been a Systemic Failure of the jurisdiction of tax residence of the UltimateParent Entity that has been notified by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to theConstituent Entity resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka.

(iii) Where there are more than one Constituent Entities of the same MNE Group that are residentfor tax purposes in Sri Lanka and one or more of the conditions set out in subsection (ii) aboveapply, the MNE Group may designate one of such Constituent Entities to file the Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requirements of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e) of thisRegulation with the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue with respect to any ReportingFiscal Year on or before the date specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) this Regulation,and to notify the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue that the filing is intended to satisfythe filing requirement of all the Constituent Entities of such MNE Group that are resident for taxpurposes in Sri Lanka.

(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation,when one or more of the conditions set out in sub-item (b) of item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) ofparagraph (e) of this Regulation apply, an entity described in item (ii) of sub-paragraph (II) ofparagraph (e) of this Regulation shall not be required to file a Country-by-Country Report withthe Commissioner General of Inland Revenue with respect to any Reporting Fiscal Year if theMNE Group of which it is a Constituent Entity has made available a Country-by-Country Reportconforming to the requirements of sub-paragaph (IV) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation withrespect to such Fiscal Year through a Surogate Parent Entity that files that Country-by-CountryReport with the tax authority of its jurisdiction of tax residence on or before the date specifiedin sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation and that satisfies the following conditions:

(a) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity requires filing of Country-by-Country Report conforming to the requiremens of sub-paragraph (IV) of paragraph (e)of this Regulation ;

(b) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has a Qualifying CompetentAuthority Agreement in effect to which Sri Lanka is a party by the time specified in sub-paragraph (V) of paragraph (e) of the Regulation for filing the Country-by-Country Reportfor the Reporting Fiscal Year ;

(c) the jurisdicton of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has not notified theCommissioner General of Inland Revenue of a Systemic Failure ;

(d) the jurisdiction of tax residence of the Surrogate Parent Entity has been notified inaccordance with item (i) of sub-paragraph (III) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation by theConstituent Entity resident for tax purposes in its jurisdiction that it is the Surrogate ParentEntity ; and

(e) a notification has been provided to the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue inaccordance with item (ii) of sub-paragraph (III) of paragraph (e) of this Regulation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201811A

(III) Notification

(i) Any Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka shallnotify the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue Department whether it is the Ultimate ParentEntity or the Surrogate Parent Entity, not later than December 31st of the Reporting Fiscal Yearof such MNE Group.

(ii) Where a Constituent Entity of an MNE Group that is resident for tax purposes in Sri Lanka is notthe Ultimate Parent Entity nor the Surrogate Parent Entity, it shall notify the CommissionerGeneral of Inland Revenue of the identity and tax residence of the Reporting Entity, no later thanDecember 31st of the Reporting Fiscal Year of such MNE Group.

(IV) Country-by-Country Report

(i) For the purposes of Paragraph (e) of this Regulation, a Country-by-Country Report with respectto an MNE Group is a report containing :

(a) Aggregate information relating to the amount of revenue, proft (loss) before income tax,income tax paid, income tax accured, stated capital, accumulated earnings, number ofemployees, and tangible assets other than cash or cash equivalents with regard to eachjurisdiction in which the MNE Group operates ;

(b) An identification of each Constituent Entity of the MNE Group setting out the jursdicationof tax residence of such Constitutent Entity, and where different from such jurisdiction oftax residence, the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Contituent Entity is organized,and the nature of the main business activity or activities of suh Constituent Entity.

(ii) The Country-by-Country Report shall be filed in a form identical to and applying the definitionsand instructions contained in the standard template set out at Annexture III of this GazetteNotification.

(V) Time of filing

The Country-by-Country Report required by Paragraph (e) of this Regulation shall be filed no laterthan 12 months after the last day of the Reporting Fisal Year of the MNE Group.

(VI) Use and Preserve Confidentiality of Country-by-Country Report Information

(i) The Transfer Pricing Officers shall use the Country-by-Country Report for purposes of assessinghigh-level transfer pricing risks and other base erosion and proift shifting related risks in SriLanka, including assessing the risk of non-compliance by members of the MNE Group withapplicable transfer pricing rules, and where appropriate for economic and statistical analysis.Transfer pricing adjustments by the Transfer Pricing Officers will not be based on the Country-by-Country Report.

(ii) The Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall perserve the confidentiality of the informationcontained in the Country-by-Country Report at least to the same extent that would apply if suchinformation were provided to it under the provisions of a double taxation agreement or as MutualAdministrative Assistance Agreement entered in to under the Act.

(VII) Effective Date

For the purpose of Paragraph (e) of this Regulation is effective for Reporting Fiscal Years of MNEGroups begining on or after 1st April 2019.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201812A

(f) Penal Provisions

Where any person who fails to comply with the requirements of section 76 and/or 77 in relation to anycontrolled trasaction with associated enterprises, the Commissioner General may impose on such personthe following penalties :

(i) Penalty on not preparing and maintaining Transfer Pricing Documentation - Not preparing andnon-maintaining of the transfer pricing documentation mentioned in Regulation 6 will lead to penalprovisions specfied in Section 184 of the Act.

(ii) Penalty on Non submission of requested documents - Non Submission of the required documentswill lead to penal provisions specified in Section 184 of the Act.

(iii) Penalty on Non-disclosure of any required information - Non disclosure of any requiredinformation will lead to penal provsions specified in Section 184 of the Act.

(iv) Penalty on Non submission of documents prescribed in Regulation 6 on or before the specifieddate - Non submission of the documents prescribed in Regulation 6 on or before specified date willlead to penal provisions specified in section 184 of the Act.

(v) Penalty on concealment of the particulars or furnish inaccurate particluars - concealment ofthe particulars of his income or furnished inaccurate particluars of such income will lead to penalprovisions specified in Section 184 of the Act.

(vi) Apart from the penalties mentioned in section 184, the penalties specified in section 185 and criminalproceedings specified in Chapter XVIII are applicable for transfer pricing.

7. Advance Pricing Agreements (APA) - With a view to supplement the traditional administrative, judicial andtreaty mechanism for resolving transfer pricing issues, any person who has controlled international transactionscan enter into an Advance Pricing Agreement with the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. An AdvancePricing Agreement determine, in advance of specified international transactions with associated enterprises (i. e.the controlled transaction covered by the agreement), an appropriate set of criteria (e. g. methodology, appropriateadjustments thereto, and critical assumptions as to the future events) for the determination of the arm’s lengthprice for those transactions over a fixed period of time.

(a) The arrangements can basically be divided into the following two categories.

(i) Unilateral Advance Pricing Agreements. Whereby the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue and thetaxpayer establish an arrangement regarding to a particular transaction between associated enterprises withoutinvolvement of other interested tax administrations, though it may affect the tax liability of the associatedenterprise in other tax jurisdiction.

(ii) Bilateral/Multiletral Advance Pricing Agreements. Whereby two or more tax authorities in differentjurisdiction concur in regard to a particular transaction between associated enterprises. The bilateral ormultilateral approach is considered equitable to all tax administrations and taxpayers and provides greatercertanity to the taxpayer concerned.

(b) An Advance Pricing Agreement may be entered into between a taxpayer and the Commissioner General in respectof the arm’s length result of an international transaction with an associate enterprise.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201813A

(c) The Commissioner General may agree to enter into an Advance Pricing Agreement on a unilateral basis or throughconsultation with the competent authority of the country of residence of the associated enterprise with which thetransaction is to be entered into, provided that the country of residence is a country with which Sri Lanka has aDouble Tax Avoidance Agreement.

(d) Where the Commissioner General enters into an Advance Pricing Agreement with a taxpayer, provided that theterms and conditions set out in the Advance Pricing Agreement are fully complied with, no adjustment will bemade by the Commissioner General under Section 76 of the Act to the trasaction that is within the scope of theAPA.

(e) Advance Pricing Agreements shall have a validity not exceeding four years of assessments. Taxpayer shall requestfor an ageement before the Commissioner General and may request modifications or its cancellations, subject tothe Commissioner General’s evaluation and approval. The Commissioner General will specify the manner in whichthe advance pricing agreement process shall operate by issuing an APA Guideline, which will specify :

(aa) eligibility for application for an advance pricing agreement ;

(bb) term limits for advance pricing agreements ;

(cc) the application procedure and process ;

(dd) annual compliance procedures for concluded advane pricing agreements ;

(ee) the conditions and procedures for revocation or cancellation of an advance pricing agreement ;

(ff) other requirements as may be necessary.

8. Associated Entrprises - For the purposes of Section 76 and 77 of the Act, and for these Regulations, twoenterprises shall be deemed to be associated entreprises, if, at any time during the year of assessment, any of thefollowing conditions is met.

(a) any person or enterprise holds, directly or indriectly shares or otherwise carrying the majority of the votingpower in the other enterprise ;

(b) any person or enterprise holds, directly or indirectly, shares carrying not less than fifty percent of the votingpower in each of such enterprise ;

(c) loans advanced by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of the bookvalue of the total assets of the other enterprise provided that it is not given by a bank which is not consideredas an associated enterprise under any other item of this Regulation ;

(d) loans and equity provided by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one per centof the book value of the total assets of the other enterprise provided that it is not given by a bank which is notconsidered as an associated enterprise under any other item of this Regulation ;

(e) one enterprise guarantee not less than twenty-five percent of the total borrowings of the other enterprise ;

(f) more than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or moreexecutive directors or executive members of the governing board of one enterprise, are appointed by theother enterprise ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201814A

(g) more than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more of the executivedirectors of members of the governing board, of each of the two enterprises are appointed by the sameperson or persons ;

(h) ninety per cent or more of the raw materials, semi-finished goods and consumables required for themanufacture or processing of goods or articles carried out by one enterprise, or of purchases required forthe sale, are supplied by the other enterprise, or by person specified by the other enterprises, and the pricesand other conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such other enterprise ;

(i) the goods or articles manufactured or processed by one enterprise are sold/tranferrred to another enterpriseor to persons specified by the enterprises, and the prices and other conditions relating thereto are influencedby such enterprise or vice versa ;

(j) where one enterprise is controlled by an individual or jointly by such individual and his relative, and the otherenterprise is controlled by such individual or his relative or jointly by such individual and his relative orjointly by relative os such individual ;

(k) where one enterprise is a firm, association of persons or body of individuals, the other enterprise holds notless than ten per cent interest in such firm, association of persons or body of individuals, or

(j) where the controlled transcation differs from the transactions that would have been made or imposed by anyperson not directly participating in the management, control or capital as mentioned in Section 76 or 77, butconfers a potential advantage to the enterprise.

9. Corresponding adjustments for domestic transaction - Where an adjustment is made under Section 77 of theAct to the taxable income of a taxpayer in relation to a domestic transaction, no tax adjustment would be made tothe taxable income of the other party to the transaction.

Where the total income of an associated enterprise is computed on the arm’s length price, which is determinedunder the provisions of Section 77 of the Act and paid to another associated enterprise from which tax has beendeducted (or is deductible) the income of other associated enterprise shall not be recomputed by reason of suchdetermination of arm’s length price in the case of first mentioned enterprise.

10. Corresponding adjustments to prevent double taxation in the case of international transactions

(1) Where -

(a) an adjustment to the conditions of tranasction between a taxpayer resident in Sri Lanka and an associatedenterprise is made or proposed by a tax administration in a country other than Sri Lanka, and

(b) this adjustment results in the taxation in that other country of an amount of income on which thetaxpayer residsent in Sri Lanka has already been charged to tax in Sri Lanka ; and

(c) the country making or proposing the adjustment has a Double Taxation Avoidence agreement with SriLanka that reflects an intention to provide for the relief of economic double taxation,

the adjustment should be made subject to the provisions of such agreement and subject to following paragraph.

(2) The Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall, after a request is made by the taxpayer resident in SriLanka, examine the consistency of that adjustment with the arm’s length principle provided for under Section76, consulting as necessary with the competent authority of the other country.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201815A

(3) If the adjustment proposed or made by the other country is consistent with the arm’s length principle both inprinciple and as regards the amount, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue shall make a correspondingadjustment to the amount of the tax charged in Sri Lanka to that person on those profits, in order to eliminatethe economic double taxation that would result from the inclusion of the same profits in the taxable incomeof both that taxpayer and the associated enterprise.

(4) A request under Regulation 10 must include the information necessary for the Commissioner General ofInland Revenue to examine the consistency of the adjustment made by the tax administration of the othercountry with the arm’s length principle, including :

(a) the name, registered address and, where applicable, trading name(s) of the associated enterprise (s) ;

(b) evidence of the tax residence of the associated enterprise(s) ;

(c) the year(s) in which the adjusted transaction(s) with the associated enterprise(s) took place ;

(d) the amount of the requested corresponding adjustement and the amounts of the adjustments made bythe tax administration of the other country ;

(e) evidence of the adjustment made by the tax administration of the other country and the basis for theadjustment, including details of comparability analysis relied upon and the transfer pricing methodapplied ;

(f) confirmation that the associated enterprise(s) will not, or is unable to, pursue any further recourseunder the deomestic law of the other country that may result in the adjustment made by tax administrationof the other country being reduced or reversed ;

(g) any other information that may be relevant for examining the consistency of the adjustment with thearm’s length principle.

(5) The request must be made within the applicable time period for making a request for the case to be resolvedby way of the mutual agreement procedure under the applicable tax treaty.

Annexture I - Local File

Transfer pricing documentation - Local file

The following information shall be included in the local file :

Part A - Local entity

* A description of the ownership structure of the local entity with details of shares or other ownership interest heldtherein by other enterprises.

* A description of the management structure of the local entity, a local organization chart, and description of theinviduals to whom local management reports and the country (ies) in which suh individuals maintain their principaloffices.

* A detailed descriptions of the business and business strategy pursued by the local entity including an indicationwhether the local entity has been involved in or affected by intangible transfers in the present of immediately pastyear and an explanation of those aspects of such transcations affecting the local entity.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201816A

* A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestitures occurring during theyear of assessment.

* A record of economic and market analyses, forecasts, budgets or any other financial estimates prepared by thelocal entity for the business as a whole and for each division or product separately, which may have a bearing onthe controlled transactions entered into.

* Key competitors.

Part B - Controlled transactions

For each material category of controlled transactions in which the entity is involved, the following information shall beprovided.

* Description of the material controlled transactions (e.g. procurrement of manufacturing services, purchase ofgoods, provision of services, loans, financial and performance guarantees, licenses of intangible etc.) and thecontext in which such transactions take place.

* The amount of intra-group payments and receipts for each category of controlled transactions involving the localentity (i.e. payments and receipts for products, services, royalties, interest etc.) and in the case of internationaltransactions broken down by tax jurisdiction of the foreign payer or recipient.

* An identification of associated enterprises involved in each category of controlled transactions, and the relationshipamongst them.

* Copies of all material intercompany agreements concluded by the local entity.

* A detailed comparability and functional analysis of the taxpayer and relevant associated enterprises with respect toeach documented category of controlled transactions, including any changes compared to prior years.

* The assumptions, policies and price negotiations, if any, which have critically affected the determination of thearm’s length price.

* An indication of the most appropriate transfer pricing method with regard to the category of transaction and thereasons for selecting that method.

* An indication of which associated enterprise is selected as the tested enterprise, if applicable, and an explanationof the reasons for this selection.

* A summary of the important assumptions made in applying the transfer pricing methodology.

* If relevant, an explanation of the reasons for performing a multi-year analysis.

* A list and description of selected comparable uncontrolled transactions (internal or external), if any, and informationon relevant financial indicators for independent enterprises relied on in the transfer pricing analysis, including adescription of the comparable search methodology and the source of such information.

* A description of any comparability adjustments performed, and an indication of whether adjustments have beenmade to the results of the tested enterprise, the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or both.

* A description of the reasons for concluding that relevant transactions were priced on an arm’s length basis basedon the application of the selected transfer pricing method.

* A summary of financial information used in applying the transfer pricing methodology.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201817A

* A copy of existing unilateral and bilateral/multilateral APAs and other tax rulings to which the local tax jurisdictionis not a party and which are related to controlled transactions described above.

* Any other information, data or documents, including information or data relating to the associated enterprises,which may be relevant for determination of the arm’s length price.

Part C - Financial information and supporting documents

* Annual local entity financial accounts for the fiscal year concerned, if audited statements exist they should besupplied and if not, existing unaudited statements should be supplied.

* Information and allocation schedules showing how the financial data used in applying the transfer pricing methodmay be tied to the annual financial statements.

* Summary schedules of relevant financial data for comparables used in the analysis and the sources from which thatdata was obtained.

* Official publications, reports, studies and databases from the Government of the country of residence of theassociated enterprises, or of any other country which are relevant to the case.

* Reports of market research studies carried out and technical publications, databases brought out by institutions ofnational or international repute.

* Price publications including stock exchange and commodity market quotations.

* Letters and other correspondence documenting any terms negotiated between the taxpayer and the associatedenterprise.

* Documents normally issued in connection with various transactions under the accounting practices followed.

Annexure II - Master File

Transfer pricing documentation - Master file

The following information shall be included in the master file :

Part A - Organisational structure

* Chart illustrating the MNE’s legal and ownership structure and geographical location of operating entities.

Part B - Description of MNE’s business(es)

* General written description of the MNE’s business including :

- Important drives of business profit ;

- A description of the supply chain for the group’s five largest products and/or service offerings by turnoverplus any other products and/or services amounting to more than 5 percent of group turnover. The requireddescription could take the form of a chart or a diagram ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201818A

- A list and brief description of important service arrangements between members of the MNE group, otherthan research and development (R & D) services, including a description of the capablities of the principallocations providing important services and transfer pricing policies for allocating services costs anddetermining prices to be paid for intra-group services ;

- A description of the main geographic markets for the group’s products and services that are referred to in thesecond bullet point above ;

- A brief written functional analysis describing the principal contribution to value creation by individual entitieswithin the group, i. e. key functions performed, important risk assumed, and important assets used ;

- A description of important business restructuring transactions, acquisitions and divestiture occurring duringthe fiscal year.

Part C - MNE’s intangibles

* A general description of the MNE’s overall stategy for the development, ownership and exploitation of intangibles,including location of principal R & D facilities and location of R & D management.

* A list of intangible or groups of intangibles of the MNE group that are important for transfer pricing purposes andentities which own them legally.

* A list of important agreements among identified associated enterprises related to intangibles, including costcontribution arrangements, principal research service agreements and license agreements.

* A general description of the group’s transfer pricing policies related to R & D and intangibles.

* A general description of any important transfers of interests in intangibles among associated enterprises duringthe fiscal year concerned, including the entities, countries, and compensation involved.

Part D - MNE’s intercompany financial activities

* A general description of how the group is financed, including important financing arrangements with unrelatedlenders.

* The identification of any members of the MNE group that provide a central financing function for the group,including the country under whose laws the entity is organized and the place of effective management of suchentities.

* A general description of the MNE’s general transfer pricing policies related to financing arrangements betweenassociated enterprises.

Part E - MNE’s financial and tax positions

* The MNE’s annual consolidated financial statement for the fiscal year concerned if otherwise prepared for financialreporting, regulatory, internal management, tax or other purposes.

* A list and brief description of the MNE group’s existing unilateral advance pricing agreements (APAs) and othertax rulings relating to the allocation of income among countries.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201819A

Annexure III - Country-by-Country Report Template

The following is the template of the Country-by-Country Report :

Table 1 : Overview of allocation of income, taxes and business activities by tax jurisdiction

Name of the MNE Group :

Fiscal year concerned :

Currency used :

TaxjurisdictionUnrelatedpartyRelatedPartyTotal

Profit (Loss)beforeIncome Tax

Income TaxPaid(on CashBasis)

Income TaxAccruedCurrentYear

StatedCapitalAccumulatedEarningsNumber ofEmployeesTangibleAssetsother thancash andcashequivalent

Revenues

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201820A

Name of the MNE group :Fiscal year concerned :

Dormant

Table 2 : List of all the Constituent Entities of the MNE group included in each aggregation per tax jurisdiction

Main Business Activity (ies) :

Other

Holding Shares or Other EquityInstruments

Insurance

Regulated Financial Services

Internal Group Finance

Provision of Services to UnrelatedParties

Administrative, Management or Support Services

Sales, Marketing or Distribution

Manufacturing orProduction

Purchasing or Procurement

Holding or ManagingIntellectual Property

Research and Development

Tax Jurisdiction ofOrganization orIncorporation ifDifferenet from TaxJurisdiction ofResidence

Constituent EntitiesResident in theTax Jurisdiction

TaxJurisdiction

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201821A

Table 3 : Additional Information

Name of the MNE Group :Fiscal year concerned :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201822A

Annexure IV

TRANSFER PRICING DISCLOSURE FORM

In terms of Paragraph (d) of Regulation 6 of this Gazette Notification issued under Section 76, 77 and 194 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

(** Please refer to the Inland Revenue Web Portal for guidelines to complete this form)

Part A. Taxpayer Information

Particulars of the person making this disclosure :

A1 :Name

A2 :Address

City

Postal code

State

Country

A3 :Incorporation of the company/partnership registration number

A4 :Taxpayer IdentificationNumber

A5 :Telephone

A6 :E-mail Address

A7 :Web Address .....................................................................................................................................

A8 :Designation

A9 :Signature; :....................................................................................................................................................................

A10 :Date (DDMMYYYY)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201823A

Declaration

(to be completed by a Director/Principal Officer/Precedent Partner/Proprietor)

I,

with Identity Card No./Passport No. *(*delete appropriately)

hereby declare that this form contains information that is true, correct and complete as at .............................

Designation

Signature

Date

For Office use only

Date (DDMMYYYY)

Name of Officer

Designation

Signature

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201824A

Part B : Transactions with Associated Enterprises

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IV

TransactionAssociatedEnterpriseArm’s Length PriceTP Methodology

Category oftrasactions

Amount oftransaction (inLKR)

For loans,principal amount

For loans, endingbalance

Category oftrasaction

Amount oftransaction (inLKR)

For loans,principal amount

For loans, endingbalance

Name of associatedenterprises

Associatedenterprise’s TaxIdentificationNumber

Country ofresidence

Criteria ofassociatedenterprise

Name of associatedenterprises

Associatedenterprise’s TaxIdentificationNumber

Country ofresidence

Criteria ofassociatedenterprise

TP Method

Profit levelindicator

Price/ProfitMargin/Rate

Tested enterprise

TP Method

Profit levelindicator

Price/ProfitMargin/Rate

Tested enterprise

Comparableprice/margin

AL Range-Max

AL Range-Med

AL Range-Min

Comparableprice/margin

AL Range-Max

AL Range-Med

AL Range-Min

I. TransactionII. AssociatedEnterpriseIV. Arm’s Length PriceIII. TP Methodology

2

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201825A

Annexure V

CODES FOR TRANSFER PRICING DISCLOSURE FORM

CATEGORIES OF TRANSACTIONS WITH ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES

(i) Revenue Transactions

Transaction CodeDescriptionNo.

01Sale of produced inventories02Sale of non-produced inventories03Production supporting services04Administrative services05Technical assistance06Technical services07Other services08Fees09Commissions10Promotional activities11Insurance and Reinsurance12Financial Instruments13Interest on loans14Leasing15Other financial services16Guarantees17Sales of shares and interests as investment assets18Other portfolio transfers19Sale of non-depreciable assets20Sale of depreciable or amortizable assets21Transfer of intangible assets22Royalties23Other investments24Other assets25Other revenue26Other (to be specified in Local File)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201826A

(ii) Expenses transactions

Transaction CodeDescriptionNo.

27Purchase of produced inventories28Purchase of non-produced inventories29Production supporting services30Administrative services31Technical assistance32Technical services33Other services34Fees35Commissions36Promotional activities37Insurance and Reinsurance38Financial Instruments39Interest on loans40Leasing41Other financial services42Guarantees43Purchase of shares and interests as investment assets44Other portfolio transfers45Purchase of non-depreciable assets46Purchase of depreciable or amortizable assets47Purchase of intangible assets48Royalties49Other investments50Other assets51Other expenditures52Other (to be specified in Local File)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201827A

Annexure VI

TRANSFER PRICING DISCLOSURE FORM

Completion requirements

The following is the guidance for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Discloure Form

All taxpayers that carry out transaction with associated enterprises during the year of assessment must complete and filea Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form, regardless of the size and nature of those transactions. The following conditionsapply :-

* All taxpayers that carry out categories of transactions that exceed LKR 200 million must complete all fields(Column I to IV) of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form* Those taxpayers that carry out categories of transactions that do not exceed LKR 200 million must onlycomplete Column I and II.

Categories of transcations are listed in Annexure V of this Gazette

The following are the details of the information to be provided by taxpayers in the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form onan annual basis. Transactions are to be disclosed by their categories and per associated enterprise.

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IV

TransactionAssociatedEnterprise Arm’s LengthPrice TP Methodology

Category oftrasaction

Amount oftransaction (inLKR)

For loans,principal amount

For loans, endingbalance

Name of associatedenterprise

Associatedenterprise’s TaxIdentificationNumber

Country ofresidence

Criteria ofassociatedenterprise

TP Method

Profit levelindicator

Price/ProfitMargin/Rate

Tested enterprise

Comparableprice/margin

AL Range-Max

AL Range-Med

AL Range-Min

1

No.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201828A

Colum I. Transaction. This Section provides the detail of the disclosed category of transaction (in accordance withAnnexure V of these Regulations) with every associated enterprise carried out during the year of assessment.

* Category of transaction : Disclose the code of the categories of transactions carried out according toAnnexure IV of these Regulations.* Amount of transaction (in LKR) : Disclose the value in LKR of each particular category of transaction carriedout with each associted enterprise.* For loans, amount of principal : Disclose the amount of the accounting balance of the principal received orprovided through a loan.* For loans, ending balance : Disclose the amount of the accounting balance of the principal received or providedthrough a loan on the date of the fiscal year-end.

Column II. Associated Enterprise : This section provides the detail of the associated enterprise with whichtransactions were carried out during a year of assessment.

* Name of associated enterprise : Disclose the complete name of the associated enterprise.* Associated enterprise’s Tax Identification Number : Disclose the tax identification number that the associatedenterprise utilizes in its country of residence for income tax purposes.* Country of residence : Disclose the code for the country of residence of the associated enterprise.* Criteria of associated enterprises : Disclose the code for the type of association criteria according toAnnexure VII of these Regulations.

Note : Sections I and II of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form to be completed only by all taxpayers that carried outcategories of transactions that do not exceed LKR 200 million.

Column III. TP Methodology : This section provides the detail of the transfer pricing methodology selected by thetaxpayer in the analysis of the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during a year of assessment.

* TP Method : Disclose the transfer pricing method selected to analyse the disclosed transaction according toAnnexure VIII of these Regulations.* Profit level indicator : Disclose the profit level indicator selected to analyse the disclosed transaction accordingto Annexure VIII of these Regulations.* Price/Profit Margin/Rate : Disclose the price, proft margin or rate arrived or derived from the applicaton oftransfer pricing methodology to the disclosed transcation. Please include two (2) decimal places.* Tested enterprise : Disclose the party to the transaction that has been selected as the tested one for the disclosedtransaction according to Annexure VIII of these Regulations.

Column IV. Arm’s length price : This section provides the detail of the result of the application of the transfer pricingmethodology to the transactions carried out with associated enterprises during a year of assessment.

* Comparable price/margin : In case these is only once comparable price or margin, disclose its vlaue : Pleaseinclude two (2) decimal places.* AL Range - Max : Disclose the maximum/upper limit of the calculated arm’s length range.* AL Range - Med : Disclose the median of the calculated arm’s length range.* AL Range - Min : Disclose the minimum/lower limit of the calculated arm’s length range.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201829A

Annexure VII

ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES

List of Codes

The following is the list of Codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form

AssociationDescriptionCode No.

01.Participating directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital (Sec. 77(5)(a)of the Act)

02.Permanent Establishment (Sec. 77(5)(b) of the Act)

03.Directly or indirectly holding of shares or otherwise carrying the majority of the voting power(Regulation 8(a))

04.Holding directly or indirectly shares carrying not less than fifty percent of the voting power(Regulation 8(b))

05.Loans advanced by one enterprise to another enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent ofthe book value of the total assets of the other enterprise (Regulation 8(c))

06.Loans and equity provided by one enterprise constitute not less than fifty-one percent of the bookvalue of the total assets of the other enterprise (Regulation 8(d))

07.Guarantees of not less than twenty five percent of the total borrowings (Regulation 8(e))

08.More than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more executivedirectors or executive members of the governing board of one enterprise, are appointed by the otherenterprises (Regulation 8(f).

09.More than half of the board of directors or members of the governing board, or one or more of theexecutive directors or members of the governing board, of each of the two enterprises are appointedby the same person or persons (Regulation 8(g)).

10.Ninety per cent or more of the raw materials, semi-finished goods and consumables required for themanufacture or processing of goods or articles carried out by one enterpise, or of purchases requiredfor the sale, are supplied by the other enterprise, or by persons specified by the other enterprise, andthe prices and other conditions relating to the supply are influenced by such other enterprise(Regulation 8(h)).

11.Goods or articles manufactured or processed by one enterprise are sold/transferred to anotherenterprise or to persons specified by the enterprise, and the prices and other conditions relatingthereto are influenced by such enterprise or vice versa (Regulation 8(i)).

12.Control by an individual or his relative or jointly by such individual and his relative or jointly byrelatives of such individual (Regulation 8(j)).

13.Holding of not less than ten percent interest of a firm, association of persons or body of individuals(Regulation 8(k)).

14.Where the controlled transactions differs from the transactions that would have been made or imposedby any person not directly participating in the management, control or capital as mentioned in section76 or 77, but confers a potential advantage to the enterprise (Regulation 8(l))

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.201830A

Annexure VIII

TRANSFER PRICING METHODOLOGY, PROFIT LEVEL INDICATORS AND TESTED ENTERPRISE

List of Codes

The following is the list of Transfer Pricing Method codes for the completion of the Transfer PricingDisclosure Form

MethodDescriptionCode No.

CUPComparable Uncontrolled Price Method

RPResale Price Method

CPCost Plus Method

TNMTransactional Net Margin Method

PSProfit Split Method

The following is the list of Profit Level Indicator codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form

PLIDescriptionCode No.

GMGross Margin

GMKGross Markup

ROSOperating Margin/Return on Sales

ROTCOperating Markup/Return on Total Cost

ROAReturn on Assets

ROCEReturn on Capital Employed

BERRYBerry Ratio

Other Other (to be specified in Local File)

The following is the list of Tested Enterprise Codes for the completion of the Transfer Pricing Disclosure Form.

TestedDescriptionEnterpriseCode No.

01Sri Lanka enterprises

02Foreign enterprises

01 - 328

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.