==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 7461 - 04 (01/2026)

Provincial Councils Notifications

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Minute of the Central Provincial Management Service Officers’ Service - Amendment No. 05

THE Hon. Governor of Central Province has approved to amend the Minute of the Central Provincial Management Service Officers’ Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1869/4 dated 30th June 2014, as follows:

The section 7 is revised as follows

7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications:

(a) Shall have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects at one sitting with credit passes for four subjects including Language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) and Mathematics or shall have passed an examination recognized by the Commissioner General of Examinations as equivalent to the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) examination at one sitting with equivalent subject achievement.

(The medium of Language in which the applicant sits the competitive examination for recruitment to the Management Service Officers’ Service shall be considered as the Language for which a credit pass shall have been obtained at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) examination.)

and

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රයඅති විශෙˤෂ

අංංක 2470/25 - 2026 ජනවාාරි මස 07 වැැනි බදාාදාා - 2026.01.07No. 2470/25 - WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 07, 2026

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'07Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.01.20262A

(b) Shall have passed the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) examination in all subjects (except for the Common General Test) at one sitting (It is sufficient to have passed 03 subjects at one sitting under the old syllabus) or shall have passed an examination recognized by the Commissioner General of Examinations as equivalent to the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) examination at one sitting with equivalent subject achievement.

The following paragraphs shall be included, and the other matters shall remain unchanged:

10.1.2 Promotion of Officers from Grade III to Grade II on passing of promotion examination:

(i). Officers who have completed at least 03 years of active and satisfactory service in Grade III on or before the last date for consideration of eligibility for the promotion examination, have earned 03 increments and not unqualified for confirmation in service are eligible to apply or appear for the promotion examination. In addition to passing the above examination, it is compulsory to satisfy the qualifications indicated under 10.1.2.1 to receive the promotion.

10.1.2.1. Qualifications to be satisfied:

i. Shall have been confirmed in the appointment

ii. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of at least five (05) years in Grade III of the service category and earned five (05) salary increments

iii. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.

iv. Shall have not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment as per the provisions of Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020.

v. Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination

vi. Shall have obtained the proficiency in other language at the relevant level.

vii. Shall have passed the examination for promotion to Grade II as mentioned in Annex 12.

Note1. The particulars and syllabus of the promotion examination are given in Annex 12.

2. The Officers who pass the relevant promotion examination at the first and second consecutive sittings shall be promoted to Grade II with effect from the date on which they complete five (05) years of active and satisfactory service in Grade III.

3. The Officers who pass the examination for promotion to Grade II at the third sitting shall be promoted to Grade II with effect from the date of completion of active and satisfactory service of five (05) years in Grade III or the date of passing the examination for promotion, whichever date that occurs later.\4. Only three (03) consecutive sittings are allowed for this examination.

New Sections 15.4 and 15.5 along with Sub-Sections are included under interim provisions

15.4 The Officers who were recruited based on the results of the examination for recruitment to the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service held on 22.12.2012 and those who joined the service after the said date shall be promoted to Grade II in the following manner upon passing the Grade II promotion examination, which will be held after publishing this amendment to the service minute.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'07Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.01.2026

i. The Officers who pass the examination for promotion to Grade II at the first and second consecutive sittings, if they have satisfied the qualifications mentioned in 10.1.2.1, shall be promoted to Grade II with effect from the date of passing the examination for promotion or the date of completing five (05) years of active and satisfactory service in Grade III, whichever date that occurs later. The period of active and satisfactory service of more than five (05) years in Grade III completed by such Officers before the date of passing the examination for promotion shall be considered a period of service in Grade II for the purpose of promotion.

ii. The Officers who pass the examination for promotion to Grade II at the third sitting shall be promoted to Grade II with effect from the date of completing active and satisfactory service of five (05) years or the date of passing the examination for promotion, whichever date that occurs later.

15.5 The Officers recruited to Grade III before 01.01.2007 and those who were recruited from 01.01.2007 to 01.04.2013 (based on the results of the examinations held from 21.01.2006 to 23.10.2010) can also sit only for three consecutive sittings (including the number of sittings of the examination prescribed under the previous service minute) of the examination for promotion to Grade II that will be held after publishing this revision of the service minute. The Officers in Grade II who pass the said promotion examination shall be promoted to Grade I in the following manner.

(i). The Officers who pass the examination for promotion (including the number of sittings prescribed under the previous service minute), if they have satisfied the qualifications mentioned in 10.2.1.1, shall be promoted to Grade I with effect from the date of the examination or the date of completing a period of active and satisfactory service of five (05) years in Grade II, whichever date that occurs later. The active and satisfactory service period of more than fifteen (15) years, including the service period of more than five (05) years completed before the date on which they passed the examination for promotion, shall be considered a service period in Grade I for matters related to promotion.

The new annex given below will be included.

Annex 12

Regulations and recommendations form for the Examination for Promotion of Grade III Officers to Grade II of the Central Provincial Management Service Officers’ Service

1. Particulars of the examination:

Question PaperDurationTotal Marks

1. Establishments Procedure and Procedural Rules2 hours1002. Financial Systems2 hours1003. General Paper1 ½ hours100

Note

(i). Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates whose handwriting is illegible are liable to be disqualified.

(ii). The candidates should answer these question papers in the language medium in which they sat for the Competitive examination for joining the service.

(iii). To pass this competitive examination, candidates will be required to obtain a minimum of forty percent (40%) for each subject and a total of not less than 130 marks in all three (03) subjects in one sitting.

2. Authority for conducting the examination: Central Provincial Public Service Commission or the Commissioner General of Examination at the request of the Central Provincial Public Service Commission or any other institution nominated by the appointing authority.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'07Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.01.20264A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

3. Syllabus of the examination:

Question PaperSyllabus

1. Establishments Procedure and Procedural RulesThe objective of this question paper is to test the proficiency of experience obtained in office activities and to test the knowledge on office systems adopted in Government Offices to cover subject fields such as principles of office procedures, importance of office procedures, written communication, filing methods and preparation of forms etc.

This paper will also consist of a section to test the knowledge of the candidates on matters indicated in Volume I of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission and Volume I of the Establishments Code.

2. Financial Systems(a) Part I - Exercises on adding and subtraction - (25 Marks) Candidates will not be allowed to use calculators for adding and subtraction exercises. Duration is only 15 minutes.)

(b) Part II - Questions to test the candidates’ knowledge and understanding of subjects such as financial control, custody of money, receipts and payments, budgetary estimations, supplies work and service exercised in Government Offices, Departments and ministries (50 Marks)

(c) Part III - Basics of board of survey and storing of goods - (25 Marks)

3. General PaperThis paper will consist of two parts.

This paper is designed to test the

(a) ability of the candidate to read and understand a statement or minutes of a discussion and prepare a report and/or a letter

(b) ability of the candidate to understand and analyze the current social affairs

Candidates should pay attention to gazette notifications published from time to time by the Central Provincial Public Service Commission in order to get full details of the syllabus and method of application.

K. K. G. I. D. P. Wijethilake, Secretary, Provincial Public Service Commission, Central Provincial Council.

Central Provincial Public Service Commission,No. 244, Katugastota Road,Kandy,on 09th December 2025.

EOG 01 - 0058