w;s úfYI

wxl 2142$91 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks fikiqrdod - 2019'09'28No. 2142/91 - SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2019

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lkPG 4682 - 12 (09/2019)

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Provincial Councils Notifications

PROVINCIAL COUNCIL ANNOUNCEMENTS UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Notice

I, Don Arthur Chamara Sampath Dasanayake, Chief Minister of Uva Province and Minister of Finance and Planninghereby impose directives relating to the Provincial Revenue Department Inventive Allowance fund in accordance withthe powers vested under the provisions of statute No.2 of 1992 and statute No.4 of 1993 and Section 77 and Section 104a of the amendment No.08 of 1990 of the Finance Statute of the Uva Province. These orders shall come into effect from01.01.2017.

DON ARTHUR CHAMARA SAMPATH DASANAYAKE,Chief Minister of Uva Province andMinister of Finance and Planning,Law and Order,Education, Local Government, Land, Power & Energy,Construction and Rural Infrastructure Development,Uva Province.

Office of the Chief Minister,On 20th September, 2019.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2019

2 A

Finance Statute of the Uva Province No. 08 of 1990

Orders

1.This directive is enacted in accordance with the powers vested to the Chief Minister of Uva Province under thechapter 77 and 104 A of the Uva Provincial Finance Statute No.08 of 1990 and its effective from the date ofpublication in the Gazette.

2.Under the provisions stated in the Chapter 104 A of the Uva Provincial Finance Statute No.08 of 1990 Hereinafterreferred to as “the Statute”, regulations are enacted to the Administration of Provincial Revenue DepartmentIncentive Allowance Fund and provide for matters connected therewith. These orders will be known as theProvincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Orders.

3.An account should be maintained for Provincial Revenue Department Officers Incentive Allowance Fund at aGovernment Bank.

4.The purpose of the Fund’s existence is for the purposes of paragraph 104 A (3) (A) and (B).That is,

(1) Payment of incentive allowance to Officers in the Provincial Revenue Department.

(2) Providing necessary funds for the welfare activities of the officers of the Provincial Revenue Department.

5.The Fund shall be administered by a committee of seven members, Hereinafter referred to as Committee and. Thecomposition of the Committee shall be as follows –

1. Chief Secretary of Uva Province,2. Secretary, Ministry of Finance,3. Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance),4. Provincial Revenue Commissioner,5. Deputy Provincial Revenue Commissioner,6. Two Officers of the Provincial Revenue Service named by the Provincial Revenue Commissioner.

6.The fund account should consist of the following sources,

Amounts allocated annually by the Provincial Council for the purpose of incentive alowance work in terms of chapter104 (2) of the Uva Provincial Finance Statute No. 08 of 1990.

(A) In the event that a tax or fee prescribed by any person has not been duly paid in accordance with the provisionsof a Charter administered by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue and the prescribed tax or fee is collectedas income, and

Not providing the reports required by such statutes to be submitted under a Statute implemented by theProvincial Commissioner of Revenue and

Turnover as stated in a report, value stated in aninstrument of title, on confirmation that the declaration hasbeen false, according to the provisions of the statute an assessment by an assesse and,

25% of the revenue collected from the additional effort of the Officers of the Provincial Revenue Departmentand

(B) 5% of the revenue collected by fines and penalties imposed under certainstatute implemented by the ProvincialCommissioner of Revenue,

Should be based on a proceeding for the amount of funds to be credited to the account.

7.Payments from the fund shall be made only for the following reasons:

1. As the purpose of establishing the Fund to provide half yearly incentives to the Officers of the Department ofRevenue, and for the arrears of incentives in salary revisions.

2. For the welfare of the Provincial Revenue Department Officers.

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2019

8.(1) The seal of the fund shall be placed in the hands of a member of the Committee, which is determined by theCommittee from time to time.

(3) The seal of the Committee shall not be placed on any document except in the presence of two members ofthe Committee who shall sign the document unless otherwise approved by the Committee.

(4) The Committee shall elect two members of the Committee as Chairperson and Secretary of the Committee.

(5) The Chairman of the Committee shall preside over the meetings and the Chairman shall attend allmeetings. All questions to be decided at a meeting of the Committee shall be decided by a majority voteof the members present. When the number of votes is equal, the chairman shall have a critical vote inaddition to his vote.

(6) (I) The role of the Secretary of the Committee is as follows.

(A) Summoning meetings on the knowledge of the Chairperson,

(B) Writing reports for Committee meetings and keeping them safe,

(C) Submitting the Committee with other feasible proposals,

(D) Handling Articles on behalf of the Committee,

(E) Maintains documents pertaining to the correspondence of the Committee,

(1) The Committee shall consist of five members.

(2) The Committee shall regulate the proceedings of the Committee and proceedings relating to its meetings.

(3) The evaluation of the Officers in the payment of Incentive allowances to the Officers of the Departmentof Revenue shall be carried out by a three-member Sub-committee headed by the Provincial Commissionerof Revenue as specified in the Incentive Payment Procedure, such Sub-committee shall be appointedwith the approval of the Provincial Revenue Department Officers Incentive Allowance Fund Committee.Sub-committee decisions shall be subject to the approval of the Committee.

(9) The Committee shall perform the following functions:

(1) The Committee shall regulate the proceedings of the Committee and proceedings relating to itsmeetings.

(2) Taking action to pay only for matters specified in Section 104A (3) of the statute and the RegulatedFund Procedure.

(3) Granting approval for payment of Incentives at the rate agreed by the Committee on the basis of theSub-committee’s determination, in accordance with the procedure for the payment of funds from theFund.

(10) (I) The Fund’s financial year is a calendar year

(7) The accounting reports prepared for each calendar year in respect of the Fund’s account shall be keptunder the audit of the Auditor-General in accordance with Article 154 of the Constitution.

(11) (I)The Minister may from time to time specify the procedure of the Incentive Fund to regulate theimplementation of these Directives, to prescribe the procedure for the formulation of procedures, andto prescribe such matters as may be prescribed.

(2) The procedure should be published in the Gazette by the Minister.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2019

4 A

10 - 503

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

(12) Unless otherwise noted in the context of these terms, these decrees

“Province” means Uva Province.

“Provincial Council” means Provincial Council of Uva Province.

“Minister of Finance” means the Minister in charge of Uva Provincial Finance.

''Chief Secretary” means Chief Secretary of Uva Province.

“Secretary of the Ministry of Finance” means Secretary of the Finance Ministry of Uva Provincial Council .

“Commissioner” means Commissioner of Uva Province Revenue Department.

“Fund” means the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund.

“Account” means the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Account.

“Committee” means the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Committee.

“Chairman” means Chairman of the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Committee.

(13) If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts in these directives, the Sinhala text shal lprevail.