THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of April 12, 2018

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 18.04.2018)

MATERNITY BENEFITS (AMENDMENT)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Labour, Trade Union Relationsand Sabaragamuwa Development

to amend the Maternity Benefits Ordinance (Chapter 140)

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

A

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 3(1) of Maternity Benefits Ordinance (hereinafterreferred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section as amended is toprovide provisions for a woman worker for the period for which maternity benefits shall bepaid.

Clause 3: This clause amends section 5 of the principal enactment and the legal effect ofthe section as amended is to provide provisions for the payment of maternity benefits for thewoman worker at the prescribed rate.

Clause 4: This clause amends section 6 of the principal enactment and the legal effect ofthe section as amended is to provide provisions for woman worker not to claim benefits inrespect of same confinement from more than one employer.

Clause 5: This clause amends section 7 of the principal enactment and the legal effect ofthe section as amended is to provide for a woman worker to inform her employer of the dayof the confinement for the purpose of calculating the leave of the confinement.

Clause 6: This clause amends section 8 of the principal enactment and the legal effect ofthe section as amended is to inform the employer of any woman worker whether or not herconfinement resulted in the issue of live child or not in order to ascertain the period for thepayment of maternity benefits.

Clause 7: This clause amends section 11 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to delete the words “alternative maternity benefits” from thesection 11 of the principal enactment.

Clause 8: This clause amends section 15 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to repeal paragraph (f) of subsection (2) of section 15.

1Maternity Benefits (Amendment)

Short title.

5

10

15

20

L.D.—O. 23/2015.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MATERNITY BENEFITS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 140)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Maternity Benefits(Amendment) Act, No. of 2018.

2.Section 3 of the Maternity Benefits Ordinance(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyamended by the repealed of subsection (1) of that sectionand substitution therefor, of the following subsection:—

“(1) The period for which any woman worker shallbe entitled to the payment of maternity benefits shallbe—

(a)twelve weeks, that is to say two weeks upto and including the day of herconfinement and ten weeks immediatelyfollowing that day, if the confinementresults in the issue of a live child; and

(b)six weeks, that is to say two weeks up toand including the day of her confinementand four weeks immediately followingthat day, if the confinement does not resultin the issue of a live child:

Provided however, that where such woman workerhas worked in her employment for any number of daysduring the aforesaid period of two weeks referred to inparagraphs (a) and (b) she shall be entitled to the

Amendmentof section 3of Chapter140.

25

2Maternity Benefits (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

payment of maternity benefits for such number of daysimmediately after her confinement commencing fromthe day immediately after the date on which theaforesaid period of ten weeks or four weeks as the casemay be, ends.”.

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the substitution therefor, of the following section:—

5. (1) The employer of a woman worker shallpay to such woman worker maternity benefitsat the prescribed rate—

(a)for the entirety of the period of twoweeks immediately preceding theconfinement and of the period of tenweeks immediately following herconfinement if such confinement resultsin the issue of a live child; and

(b)for the entirety of the period of twoweeks immediately preceding theconfinement and of the period of fourweeks immediately following herconfinement, if the confinement doesnot result in the issue of a live child:

Provided however, where such womanworker has worked in her employment on anynumber of days during the aforesaid period oftwo weeks referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b),she shall be entitled to maternity benefits forsuch number of days after her confinement.

(2) The periods in respect of whichpayments of maternity benefits shall be madeunder this section shall be in addition to anyholiday or leave to which she is entitled.”.

Replacementof section 5of theprincipalenactment.“Liablity ofemployerand rate ofmaternitybenefits.

30

3Maternity Benefits (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the substitution therefor, of the following section:—

6. Nothing in the provisions of section 5shall be deemed to entitle any woman workerto claim the maternity benefits referred to inthis Ordinance from more than one employerin respect of the same confinement.”.

5.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:—

(1)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andsubstitution therefor, of the following subsection:—

“(2) A woman worker who has been confinedshall, within one week of her confinement givenotice to her employer of the date on which shewas confined and for the purpose of ascertainingthe number of days, she will be permitted toabsent herself from the employment specifywhether the confinement resulted in the issue ofa live child or not;”;and

(2)by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section andthe substitution therefor, of the followingsubsection:—

“(4) The employer shall on receipt of thenotice from a woman worker under subsection(1) or subsection (2), permit that woman workerto absent herself from employment—

(a)for two weeks immediatelypreceding, and ten weeksimmediately following her

25

“Womanworker not toclaimbenefits, inrespect of thesameconfinement,from morethan oneemployer.

Replacementof section 6of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 7of theprincipalenactment.

4Maternity Benefits (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

confinement if the confinementresults in the issue of a live child;and

(b)for two weeks immediatelypreceding and four weeksimmediately following herconfinement, if the confinementdoes not result in the issue of alive child:

Provided however, that where such womanworker has worked in her employment for anynumber of days during the aforesaid period oftwo weeks referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b),she shall be permitted to absent herself fromemployment for such number of days after herconfinement commencing from the dayimmediately after the date on which the aforesaidperiod of ten weeks or four weeks, as the casemay be end.”;

(3)by the insertion immediately after subsection (4) ofthat section of the following new subsection:—

“(5) The leave to which a woman worker isentitled under this Act in consequence of anyconfinement shall be in addition to any holidayor leave to which she is entitled under any otherlaw or regulation.”.

6.Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended,by the substitution for the words “notice of her confinement toher employer under section 7(2)” of the following words:—

“notice of her confinement to her employer undersection 7(2):

Provided however, that for the purpose ofascertaining the period for which such woman

30

Amendmentof section 8of theprincipalenactment.

5Maternity Benefits (Amendment)

5

`

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

worker is entitled to the payment of maternitybenefit, she shall inform her employer of whetheror not her confinement resulted in the issue of alive child or not.”.

7.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words “depriving her of any maternity benefit oralternative maternity benefits to which”, of the words,“depriving her of any maternity benefits to which”.

8.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraph (f) thereof.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

.

Amendmentof section 11of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 15of theprincipalenactment.

10

6Maternity Benefits (Amendment)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING