==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.05.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2018$11 - 2017 uehs ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2017'05'09No. 2018/11 - TUESDAY, MAY 09, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

GUIDELINES AND CRITERIA GOVERNING THE PAYMENT OF REWARDS FROM THE COASTALPROTECTION REWARD FUND ESTABLISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 31(F) OF THECOAST CONSERVATION AND COASTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ACT, No. 57 OF 1981 ASAMENDED BY ACT, No. 64 OF 1988 AND No. 49 OF 2011

A fund called the “Coastal Protection Reward Fund” has been established under Section 31F(1) of the Coast Conservationand Coastal Resource Management Act, No. 57 of 1981. Accordingly, you are informed to pay the relevant rewards as perthe guidelines and criteria framed to pay the same from the money credited to the said fund.

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,Minister of Mahaweli Development and Environment.

26th April 2017.

Guidelines in the determination of the qulifications for eligibility of paying a reward from the Coastal Protection RewardFund established in accordance with Section 31(F) of the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Act,No. 57 of 1981 as amended by Act, No. 64 of 1988 and No. 49 of 2011.

1. Persons who are eligible to claim rewards

(I) Police Officers :(Police Officers who were involved in taking the suspects concerned into custody and produced to thecourt and those who handled the relevant case and gave evidence in that regard)

(II) Officers who are serving in the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management.(Those who complained to the police about the relevant illegal act, those who gave evidence with regardto the relevant case and those who made submission to the court on behalf of the Department)

1A PG 3525 — 507 (05/2017)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.05.20172A

(III) Any other public officers who were involved in handling the court case, an operation for taking the suspectsinto custody or those who gave evidence for a court case.

(IV) Persons who provided information in respect of the relevant illegal act.

2. The manner in which the money credited to the fund shall be allotted

*Consolidated Fund40%*For Rewards50%*Other expenses10%

(Out of the amount allotted to the other expenses, 5% will be allotted for the administation activities of thefund whereas the remaining 5% to be allotted for the welfare of all the officers of the Department of CoastConservation and Coastal Resources Management)

* The maximum amount to be spent for the annual welfare out of the 5% value allotted for the same is ofRupees One Million (Rs. 1,000,000/-)

* If any amount is left out after paying rewards subject to a maximum of Rs. 50,000/- per person out of theamount allotted for the payment of rewards, the remainder shall also be credited to the biannual consolidatedfund.

* If any amount is left out after allotting Rs. 1,000,000/- for the annual welfare in any year out of theamount of 5% which is allotted for the same the remainder shall also be credited to the consolidated fund.

3. Qualifications to be fulfilled for the grant of rewards

(I) Before the payment of any reward, all the fines recovered pertaining to the relevant case and the sum ofmoney realized by the disposal of articles forfeited under the provisions of this Act should have beencredited to the Coastal Protection Reward Fund.

(II) The maximum amount of reward to be paid to a police officer or a public officer who took part in a courtcase shall be Rupees Fifty Thousand (Rs. 50,000/-) per each such case.

(III) Before the payment of rewards, the list of the police officers who engaged in the duties of arresting thesuspects and in legal proceedings shall be furnished under the signature of the OIC of the relevant policestation. The list of the persons who complained to the police about the relevant offence and who providedinformation in that regard and also those officers in the Department of Coast Conservation and CoastalResource Management and other public officers who took part in the court case and gave evidence shallbe certified by the OIC of the relevant police station and the Director General of the Department of CoastConservatioin and Coastal Resources Management.

4. The way of making payments for rewards :

(i) Payments for reward shall be made as follows out of the 50% amount allotted for the rewards.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.05.20173A

S. No.DescriptionTo theOfficers of theTo the otherpoliceDepartment of Coastpersons whoofficersConservation andprovidedCoastal ResourcesinformationManagement/the otherGovernment officers.

(a)Where the police officers have100%NoNoonly been involved in the case withouta complaint, appearing for the case, orgiving evidence or any other involvementin that regard by the officers of theDepartment of Coast Conservation andCoastal Resources Management

(b)Where the suspects have been taken into70%30%Nocustody by police officers upon acomplaint made by the officers of theDepartment of Coast Conservation andCoastal Resources Management andwhere no officers of the Departmentof Coast Conservation and CoastalResources Managment have engagedin any court case or giving evidencetherein.

(c)Where the suspects have been taken50%50%Nointo custody and instituted legal actionagainst them by the police officers upona compliant made by the officers of theDepartment of Coast Conservation andCoastal Resources Management andwhere the officers of the Departmentof Coast Conservation and CoastalResources Management or the officersof the Attorney General’s Departmenthave appeared before the court andgiven evidence and/or where a publicofficers have took part in giving evidencebefore the court.

(d)Once police officers have executed the80%No20%relevant arrest upon the informationgiven by the general public (where noany other public officers have notengaged in it.)

(e)Where the relevant arrest has been made50%30%20%upon the information received from thegeneral public and where the other publicofficers have taken part in giving evidencebefore the court.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.05.20174A

(ii) The sum of money allotted to the rewards for police officers will be equally divided among the all policeofficers who were involved in the court case and the relevant money will be paid to the police officersdirectly by the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management.

(iii) The sum of money allotted for rewards will be divided equally among the officers of the Department ofCoast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management and the other public officers who involved inany court case and who made complaints and gave evidence before the court in that behalf.

5. Payment Procedure :

(i) Payments for rewards will be made biannually.

(ii) The minimum fine to be eligible for a reward is Rupees Five Thousand (Rs. 5,000/-)

05-703

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.