THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of August 02, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 06.08.2024)

COMPANIES (AMENDMENT)

to amend the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 54.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

2-2d

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

A

BILL

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Industries

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 4 of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section asamended is to incorporate a company with the single shareholder.

Clause 3 : This clause amends section 11 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to extend the time limits to notify the public in the case ofchange of its name.

Clause 4 : This clause amends section 19 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to rectify a numbering error in subsection (2).

Clause 5 : This clause amends section 51 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to prohibit the issuance of a share warrant to the bearer orbearer share.

Clause 6 : This clause amends section 52 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to amend the provisions relating to the time limits relating toallotment of shares.

Clause 7 : This clause inserts a new Division in the principal enactment which containsprovisions relating to ‘beneficial ownership’ of shares of a company includingprovisions -

(a) for disclosing of information on beneficial ownership of shares from ashareholder and the Secretary or a director of a company and sharing suchinformation with specified persons;

(b) for keeping and maintaining registers, by a company and the Registrar,containing information on beneficial ownership of shares of a company;

(c) for offences committed in relation to beneficial ownership of shares; and

(d) for new interpretations on the’ beneficial owner’ and ‘effective control’.

Clause 8 : This clause amends section 206 of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to re-set the procedure for removal of directors of acompany.

Clause 9 : This clause amends section 211 of the e principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to revise the period of validity of a resolution passed inrespect of an appointment of a director over age of seventy years.

Clause 10 : This clause amends section 341 of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to cast a liability upon a liquidator who fails to submitto the Registrar a copy of the accounts and a confirmation of a meeting held in relation toa dissolution of a company.

Clause 11 : This clause amends section 424 of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to extend the period of time provided for an administratorto submit to a creditors’ committee information required by such committee.

Clause 12 : This clause amends section 471 of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to create new cadre in the Department of RegistrarGeneral of Companies.

Clause 13 : This clause amends section 472 of the principal enactment to rectify anerror in the Sinhala version of the principal enactment.

Clause 14 : This clause inserts a new section 484A in the principal enactment and thelegal effect of the new section is to empower the Registrar to grant extension of time periodto a company for furnishing of certain documents and information.

Clause 15 : This clause amends section 487 of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to provide an opportunity to a company, name of whichhas been struck off, to re-register such company and to retrieve its property vested in theState.

Clause 16 : This clause amends section 508 of the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to enable a party to make request to refer the dispute formediation.

Clause 17 : This clause inserts a new section 513A in the principal enactment and thelegal effect of the new section is to provide for general penalties.

Clause 18 : This clause amends the definition of the expression ‘distribution’ in section529 of the principal enactment.

Clause 19 : This clause provides for special provisions relating to information onbeneficial ownership of a company held on the appointed date.

Clause 20 : This clause cast a duty upon existing holders of any share warrant to beareror bearer shares to disclose information relating to such bearer or bearer shares.

Clause 21 : This clause provides for a schedule to rectify the errors in Sinhala, Tamiland English versions of the principal enactment.

1Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

L.D.O- 61/2024

AN ACT TO AMEND THE COMPANIES ACT, NO. 07 OF 2007

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Companies(Amendment) Act, No. of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than the provisions ofthis section shall come into operation on such date as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act ofParliament.

2. Section 4 of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

“(2) A company, other than a company limited byguarantee, may have a single shareholder, who may -

(a) be a natural person;

(b) be a body corporate; or

(c)be the Secretary to the Treasury holdingshares on behalf of the Government ofSri Lanka.”.

Short titleand date ofoperation

Amendmentof section 4of Act, No.07 of 2007

Companies (Amendment)2

5

10

15

20

25

3. Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) thereof by the substitution forthe words “ten working days”, of the words “twenty workingdays”.

4. Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by re-numberingparagraph (c) as paragraph (b).

5. Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)thereof, of the following new subsection: -

“(1A) A company shall not issue a share warrantissued to bearer or bearer share irrespective of whetherits articles of association purport to authorise it to do so.

For the purpose of this subsection,-

“share warrant to bearer” means a negotiableinstrument whose ownership is determinedby possession of the issued physicalwarrant certificate, and any other similarwarrant or instrument without traceability,but does not include –

(a)any instrument that only confersrights to subscribe for shares in acompany under specifiedconditions, but not ownership orentitlement to ownership in shares,unless and until the instrument isexercised or redeemed; and

Amendmentof section 11of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 19of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 51of theprincipalenactment

3Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

(b)a dematerialised or registered formof warrant or any other instrumentwhose owners can be identified; and

“bearer share” means a negotiable instrumentwhich may contain the rights specified insection 49 but whose ownership isdetermined by the simple possession of aphysically issued share certificate, and anyother similar instrument such as securityto the bearer named in section110(1)(b)(iii), without traceability, butdoes not include a dematerialised orregistered form of share certificate whoseowners can be identified.”.

(2)in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of subsection(4) thereof by the substitution for the words “sharesissued;”, of the words “shares issued and names ofthe persons to whom such shares are issued;”.

6. Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

“(3) Upon receipt of the consideration, the companyshall make an allotment of the shares within twentyworking days of the receipt of such consideration:

Provided however, that the period of timespecified in this subsection shall not apply in respectof the issuance of shares which are fully paid up fromthe reserves of the company to all shareholders of thesame class in proportion to the number of shares heldby each shareholder.”.

Amendmentof section 52of theprincipalenactment

30

Companies (Amendment)4

5

10

15

20

25

7. The following new division is hereby insertedimmediately after section 130 (SHARE REGISTER) of theprincipal enactment and shall have effect as a new divisionof that enactment: -

“BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP

130A. (1) Subject to the provisions ofsubsection (10), every company incorporatedor registered under this Act or any former writtenlaw relating to companies (under this headingreferred to as the “company”) shall, at the timeof incorporation or within twenty working daysof the issue of any shares or transfer of shares,give notice to the Registrar in the prescribedform of-

(a)the full names and previous fullnames (if any) as appearing in theidentification document ofbeneficial owners of the company;

(b)the dates and places of birth,nationalities, countries of residence,and the last known addresses ofbeneficial owners of the company;

(c)the residential addresses, businessaddresses, email addresses, andpostal addresses of beneficial ownersof the company;

(d)the National Identity Card numbers,Tax Identification Numbers, orPassport numbers and the countriesof issuance, of beneficial owners ofthe company;30

Insertion ofnew divisionin theprincipalenactment

Details of thebeneficialownership ofa companyto be givento theRegistrar.

5Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

(e)the contact details of beneficialowners of the company; and

(f)a full statement describing the natureand the extent of the beneficialownership.

(2) Every shareholder shall, within tenworking days of the purchase of any shares ortransfer of shares give the details specified insubsection (1) relating to beneficial ownershipof the company to the company.

(3) Every director or secretary of thecompany shall disclose the details referred toin subsection (1) relating to beneficial ownersof the company to the Registrar when hebecomes aware of such details.

(4) (a) The company shall maintain a registerand record the details specified in subsection(1) when it becomes aware and the companyshall keep such register of beneficial owners ofthe company subject to the provisions ofparagraph (b) of subsection (3) of section 116at its registered office.

(b) The provisions of section 124 relatingto the place of the share register of a companyshall mutatis mutandis apply to the register ofbeneficial owners of the company.

(5) (a) A company shall keep and maintainrecords of the details of the beneficial ownersof the company and the nature and extent ofthe beneficial ownership of the company for aperiod of at least ten years after the date onwhich the record was made.

30

Companies (Amendment)6

5

10

15

20

25

(b) The administrator or liquidator of acompany under dissolution and any otherperson involved in the dissolution of acompany shall keep and maintain records ofthe details of the beneficial owners of thecompany and the nature and extent of thebeneficial ownership of the company for aperiod of at least five years after the date onwhich the company is dissolved or otherwiseceases to exist.

(6) The Registrar shall maintain a registerto record the details specified insubsection (1).

(7) The company shall, within fourteenworking days upon the receipt of details that aperson holds, acquires, or effects a subsequentchange of beneficial ownership of a company,notify the Registrar of such details specified insubsection (1).

(8) Every company shall, subject to theprovisions of subsection (7) deliver the detailsof beneficial owners of the company in a formas may be prescribed together with the annualreturn under section 131.

(9) The provisions of section 181 relatingto the power to require information as topersons interested in shares or debentures shallmutatis mutandis apply to beneficial ownersof the company.

(10) The provisions of sections 130A to 130Ishall not apply to an offshore company30

7Companies (Amendment)

10

15

20

25

incorporated outside Sri Lanka and registeredunder this Act or, an overseas companyregistered under this Act where such companyis required to comply with the beneficialownership registration in the country where ithas been incorporated.

(11) In this section, the expression “formerwritten law relating to companies” means anywritten law repealed by the CompaniesOrdinance (Chapter 145) or the Companies Act,No. 17 of 1982 or this Act.

130B. A company or the Registrar shall, uponrequest made by the Attorney-General,Financial Intelligence Unit established underthe Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No.6 of 2006, Director-General of Customs,Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue, anypublic authority having the responsibility forinvestigating or prosecuting moneylaundering, terrorist financing or any othercriminal offences, public procurementauthorities, or regulatory authorities makeavailable the details of the beneficial ownersof the company held or submitted under section130A.

130C. (1) A company shall appoint a naturalperson residing in Sri Lanka as the authorizedperson who is –

(a)responsible for the safe keeping ofthe register of the beneficial ownersof the company; and

Details to befurnished.

Appointmentof a personfor safekeeping andmakingavailabledetails.30

5

Companies (Amendment)8

5

10

15

20

25

(b)authorised by the company to makethe details of the beneficial ownersof the company recorded in terms ofsection 130A available to theFinancial Intelligence Unitestablished under the FinancialTransactions Reporting Act, No. 6of 2006 or any competent authority.

(2) The company shall disclose the detailsof the authorised person at the time ofincorporation and any subsequent changes tosuch authorised person in a form as may beprescribed.

130D. The details of the beneficial ownersof a company shall, upon a request forinspection by a member of the public, be madeavailable by the Registrar whetherelectronically or physically, but the details ofthe beneficial owners of the company shall belimited to their full names and the nature andextent of beneficial ownership of the company.

130E. If the Registrar has reasonablegrounds to believe that a company-

(a)has failed or fails to keep andmaintain a register of beneficialowners of the company referred toin section 130A; or

(b)has failed or fails to comply with anytime period referred to in section130A,30

Details forpublic.

Failing tokeep andmaintain aregister ofbeneficialowners of thecompany.

9Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

the Registrar shall, in writing issue a directiveto the company instructing the company tocomply with the provisions of section 130Awithin a period of seven working days fromthe date of receiving the directive.

130F. Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other written law, a claim tobeneficial ownership of a company may not beclaimed or be recognized for any lawfulpurpose, unless such beneficial ownership isdisclosed and registered in the manner set outunder this division.

130G. (1) A company which –

(a)contravenes or fails to comply withsubsection (1), (3), (4), (7) or (8) ofsection 130A;

(b)knowingly provides false ormisleading details about a beneficialowner of the company or the natureand extent of the beneficialownership of the company;

(c)knowingly withholds details of abeneficial owner of the companythat should be entered into theregister referred to in subsection (1)of section 130A; or

(d)knowingly makes a false entry intothe register referred to in subsection(1) of section 130A,

A claim forbeneficialownership.

Offences.

Companies (Amendment)10

5

10

15

20

25

shall be guilty of an offence and be liable onconviction to a fine not exceeding one millionrupees or to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a period not exceeding ten years or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

(2) Where an offence under this section iscommitted, then every person who at the timeof the commission of the offence was a directoror an officer of such company shall be deemedto have committed that offence unless suchperson proves that the offence was committedwithout such person’s knowledge, or that suchperson exercised all due diligence to preventthe commission of such offence.

(3) A shareholder, secretary, or authorisedperson who contravenes or fails to comply withthe provisions under subsection (2) of section130A or subsection (3) of section 130A or 130Crespectively shall be guilty of an offence andbe liable on conviction to a fine not exceedingone million rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding ten yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

130H. The Minister may make regulationsin respect of all or any of the following matters:-

(a)maintenance of the register ofbeneficial ownership of thecompany;

(b)reporting of an acquisition ofbeneficial ownership of thecompany; and

Regulations.

30

11Companies (Amendment)

30

5

10

15

20

25

(c)for obtaining details relating tobeneficial ownership of thecompany.

130I. In this division-

“beneficial owner” means a naturalperson who ultimately owns orcontrols ten per cent or more of acompany, in whole or in part,through, direct or indirectownership or control of shares orvoting rights or other ownershipinterest in that company, and alsoincludes a natural person whoexercises effective controlthrough other means, andbeneficial ownership is to beconstrued accordingly;

“effective control” includes a situationwhere control is exercisedindirectly either through a chainof ownership or by appointmentor removal of a director or by anyother means of indirect control,such as the ability to take strategicdecision that affects the operationof the company, its businesspractices or general direction ofthe company.”.

8. Section 206 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsections (2) and (3) thereof andsubstitution therefor, of the following new subsections: -

Interpretation.

Amendmentof section206 of theprincipalenactment

Companies (Amendment)12

5

10

15

20

25

“(2) Where a company intends to remove a directorand appoint a new director in the place of the directorso removed, a special notice shall be given to allshareholders of the company and it shall be the dutyof the secretary to the company to send a copy of thespecial notice to the director who is to be removed.Such a director shall be entitled to be heard at suchmeeting irrespective of whether or not such director isa shareholder of that company.

(3) Upon the receipt of the special notice undersubsection (2), the director concerned may, withinfourteen working days from the date of receipt of thespecial notice make a representation to the companyin writing requiring the company to notify eachshareholder of the company.

(4) The secretary to the company shall forthwithsend a copy of the representation to every shareholderof the company. Where a copy of the representationhas not been sent due to negligence of the company ordue to the fact that the representation was receivedafter the expiry of a period specified therein, thesecretary to the company shall read out therepresentation at the meeting, if such director sorequires:

Provided that where the company is able tosatisfy the court that the provisions of this section arebeing abused by the director concerned in order tosecure unnecessary publicity of a defamatory nature,the company may seek an order of the court for coststo be paid by such director, and to refrain from sendingsuch representation to the shareholders or reading suchrepresentation at the meeting.”.

30

13Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

9. Section 211 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution forthe words “valid only for one year from his appointment.” ofthe words and figures, “valid till the next annual generalmeeting subject to paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section133 of the Act.”.

10. Section 341 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

“(3) Within one week from the date of the meetingsreferred to in subsection (1), or where no such meetingsare held on the same date, from the date of thesubsequent meeting, the liquidator shall send to theRegistrar a copy of the accounts and shall make areturn to him confirming the fact of the holding of themeetings and of their dates, and where the copy is notsent or the return is not made in accordance with theprovisions of this subsection, the liquidator shall beguilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to afine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees .”.

11. Section 424 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words “it may reasonably require.”, of the following: -

“it may reasonably require:

Provided however, where an administrator isunable to provide the required information within theperiod of time specified in the notice made under thissubsection, such administrator may forward anapplication to the Registrar setting out therein thereasons for such inability. Upon consideration of theapplication and reasons, the Registrar may extend,

Amendmentof section211 of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section341 of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section424 of theprincipalenactment

30

Companies (Amendment)14

5

10

15

20

25

subject to any terms and conditions if any, the periodof time specified for the providing of information. TheRegistrar shall in writing communicate his decision tothe administrator and the creditors’ committee.”.

12. Section 471 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the insertion of a newparagraph immediately after paragraph (a), of thefollowing: -

“(aa)persons by name or by office, to be or to actas Additional Registrars-General ofCompanies;”;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords and figure “subsection (1) as a DeputyRegistrar-General of Companies”, of the words andfigure “subsection (1) as an AdditionalRegistrar-General of Companies or a DeputyRegistrar-General of Companies”;

(3)by the addition immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following: -

“(3) Any class or category of officers of theDepartment of the Registrar-General of Companies maybe paid incentive allowance in such manner and atsuch rates, and shall be subject to such conditions ofservice, as may be prescribed in consultation with theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.”.

13. Section 472 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following: -

Amendmentof section471 of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section472 of theprincipalenactment

15Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

“(1) A person who is aggrieved by an act or decisionof the Registrar may appeal to the court within fifteenworking days after the date of receiving notice of theact or decision or such further time as the court mayallow.”.

14. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 484 of the principal enactment,which shall have effect as section 484A of the principalenactment.

484A. (1) Where a company is unable tofurnish such information or produce any book,register or other document before the datespecified in the notice under subsection (1) ofsection 484, such company may make anapplication together with the reasons thereforto the Registrar for an extension of such period.Upon the consideration of the application andreasons, the Registrar may extend the timeperiod subject to the terms and conditions ashe may think fit to impose. The Registrar shallin writing communicate his decision to thecompany.

(2) Where the company fails to comply withthe direction within the extended period oftime under subsection (1)—

(a)the company shall be guilty of anoffence and be liable on convictionto a fine not exceeding five hundredthousand rupees;

(b)every officer of the company who isin default shall be guilty of anoffence and be liable on convictionto a fine not exceeding two hundredthousand rupees.”.

Insertion ofnew section484A of theprincipalenactment

“Registrar’spower tograntextension foracts.

30

Companies (Amendment)16

5

10

15

20

25

15. Section 487 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (5) thereof by the substitution forthe words “shall vest in and be at the disposal of the State.”,of the following: -

“shall vest in and be at the disposal of the State:

Provided that any company of which, the namehas been struck off under subsection (3) may beforethe expiry of a period of ten years from the date ofcoming into operation of this amendment Act, applyto court making the Attorney General a party to suchapplication and show cause to the satisfaction of thecourt stating reasons why such company was unableto comply with the provisions of subsection (1). Aftersuch inquiry as the court may deem necessary, thecourt may permit the re-registration of the companyand upon such registration make an order for the returnto the company of all property previously vested inthe State under this subsection:

Provided further that where property vested inthe State under the provisions of this subsection hasbeen dealt with or disposed of, by the State, the rightsof third parties who have acquired such rights fromthe State in good faith shall not be affected in anymanner:

Provided however, where the property has beendestroyed or damaged or, physical possession of theproperty has not been taken by the State, the Stateshall not be liable to any party in any manner.”.

16. Section 508 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof andsubstitution therefor, of the following: -

Amendmentof section487 of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section508 of theprincipalenactment

30

17Companies (Amendment)

5

10

20

25

“(1) A party to a dispute –

(a)arising in giving effect to the provisions ofthis Act; or

(b)which relates to the management of affairs ofany company,

may request the Companies Disputes Board that the disputemay be referred to for mediation before a member of theCompanies Disputes Board and the President of theCompanies Disputes Board may, if he deems appropriate,refer the same for mediation to any member of the CompaniesDisputes Board.”.

17. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 513 of the principal enactment,and shall have effect as section 513A of the principalenactment: -

513A. (1) A person, a director, a secretaryor an officer who contravenes or fails to complywith any provisions of this Act or anyregulation made thereunder for which nopunishment is expressly provided for suchoffence shall be guilty of an offence and beliable on conviction to a fine not exceedingfive hundred thousand rupees or toimprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding six months, or to both such fineand imprisonment.

(2) Where any provision of this Act iscontravened or omitted or failed to comply withby a body of persons and where no punishmentis expressly provided in this Act, if such bodyof persons –

15

Insertion ofnew section513A in theprincipalenactment

30

“Generalpenalties.

Companies (Amendment)18

5

10

15

20

25

(a) is a body corporate, every director,manager or secretary of such bodycorporate;

(b) is a firm, every partner of that firm;or

(c) is an unincorporated body otherthan a firm, every member of suchbody,

shall be deemed to have committed an offenceand shall, on conviction be liable to a fine notexceeding rupees five hundred thousand or toimprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding one year or to both such fineand imprisonment:

Provided however, that no such personshall be deemed to be guilty an offence if heproves that the offence was committed withouthis knowledge or that he exercised all duediligence to prevent the commission of theoffence.”.

18. Section 529 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of the definition ofthe expression “distribution” and the substitution therefor,of the following: -

“(a)the direct or indirect transfer of money orproperty other than the shares of the companyby a capitalization of reserves of the company,to or for the benefit of a shareholder; or”.

Amendmentof section529 of theprincipalenactment

19Companies (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

19. (1) Every company incorporated or registered underthe Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 or any former writtenlaw relating to companies and having beneficial owners onthe appointed date shall, in the prescribed form and manner,forward to the Registrar the details relating to beneficialowners of that company in terms of section 130A within sixmonths of the appointed date.

(2) Every depositary of a licensed stock exchange shall,within thirty days of the appointed date in the prescribedform and manner, be required to verify, report, record andnotify the Registrar of the details of the shareholders of thecompany who held ten per cent or more of the issued sharesof the company on the appointed date.

(3) Every company shall, within thirty days of theappointed date in the prescribed form and manner, berequired to verify, report, record and notify the Registrar ofthe details of beneficial owners of the company on theappointed date.

(4) A company which contravenes or fails to comply withany provisions of this section shall be guilty of an offenceand be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fiftythousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora period not exceeding six months, or to both such fine andimprisonment.

(5) In this section the expression “former written lawrelating to companies” means any written law repealed bythe Companies Ordinance (Chapter 145) or the CompaniesAct, No. 17 of 1982 or Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.

Specialprovisionsrelating toreporting,receiving,etc. of detailsrelating tobeneficialownership ofthe companyheld on theappointeddate

Companies (Amendment)20

5

10

15

20

25

20. (1) Every holder of any share warrants to bearer orbearer shares shall, within sixty days of the appointed dateinform the issuing company of such fact and provide thecompany secretary in writing his name, address and othercontact details.

(2) The company shall, upon the receipt of details undersubsection (1) register such details forthwith.

(3) Where any holder of any share warrants to bearer orbearer shares fails to comply with the provisions ofsubsection (1), any rights associated with such share warrantsto bearer or bearer shares shall stand nullified at the end ofsuch period specified in that subsection.

(4) Every holder of any share warrants to bearer or bearershares shall, within sixty days from the appointed date orupon the nullification under subsection (3), convert suchshare warrants to bearer or bearer shares to shares inregisterable form for the purpose of the shareholder registerunder the provisions of section 123(1).

21. The sections of the principal enactment specified in

Column I of the Schedule hereto, are hereby amended by the

substitution for the words and figures specified in the

corresponding entry in Column II, of the words and figures

specified in the corresponding entry in Column III of that

Schedule.

22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Duty of theexistingholder of anysharewarrants tobearer andbearer share

Sinhala textto Prevail incase ofinconsisteney

Amendmentof certainsections ofthe principalenactment

21Companies (Amendment)

SCHEDULE (section 21)

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

28(1)

37(3)(a)

40(3)(b)

40(4)

41 (MarginalNote)

41(2)(c)

44(b)

61(3)(b)

64(3)(a)

67(2)(b)

77(1)

84(2)

84(4)

84(5)

“comply with therequirments”

“to the shatres ordebentures;”

“the dosuments (ifany)”

“Where aprosopectus”

“Civil liabilityuntrue inprospectus.”

“pubilc notice”

“referrenceincorporated”

“relive thedirector”

“makes and offer”

“pruposes ofsection 56.”

“title to the sharesor debters”,

“same priorites”,

“issue of anotherdenenture”,

“priority wihchany person wouldhave had”,

“comply with therequirements”

“to the shares ordebentures;”

“the documents(if any)”

“Where aprospectus”

“Civil liability inrespect of untruestatement inprospectus.”

“public notice”

“referenceincorporated”

“relieve thedirector”.

“makes an offer”.

“purposes ofsection 56.”

“title to the sharesor debtors”.

“same priorities”;

“issue of anotherdebenture”;

“priority whichany person wouldhave had”.

Companies (Amendment)22

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

86(3)

92(1)(b)

92(1)(e)

95(2)

98(2)

102(4)

102(11)(a)

111(4)

116(2)

119(1)(b)

127

129(1)

142(5)

“shares have beentransfered”,

“transaction forthe purpse”,

“suchection (1)”,

“under susection(1)”,

“and thecompnay”

“provisions ofthis secetion,”

“fifty thouandrupees;”,

“fails tocompaly”,

“and the referecesis paragraph (h)”,of the words

“writtencommunicationsto allsharehloders”,

“any nawspapercirculating”,

“entered on theshareregister”,

“company’s costson anapplicaition”,

“shares have beentransferred”.

“transaction for thepurpose”;

subsection (1)”.

“under subsection(1)”.

“and thecompany”.

“provisions of thissection,”;

“ fifty thousandrupees;”.

“fails to comply”.

“and the referencesin paragraph (h)”.

“writtencommunications toall shareholders”.

“any newspapercirculating”.

“entered on theshare register”.

“company’s coston an application”.

23Companies (Amendment)

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

152(1)(c)

167(1)

168(1)(j)

168(2)

175(5)

180(4)

182(3)

185(2)

220(1)

220(4)

228(c)

241(3)(e)

242(1)(b)(iii)

242(5)

245(f)

“sign on behlaf”,

“annual generalmeeting report”,

“subsidaries”,

“in paragraphs (b)to (j) ofsubsection (1).”,

“Notwithstansing”,

“where aninspector isappinted”,

“appeal to thecourt”,

“corporal orincorporeal”,

“working daysform”,

“auothorises orpermits”,

(iiii)

“necessary toenble”

“the board issatified”,

“shall sign acerificate”

“by or against anamagamating”,

“signed on behalf”.

“annual report”.

“subsidiaries”.

“in paragraphs (d)to (j) of subsection(1).”.

“Notwithstanding”.

“where aninspector isappointed”.

“appeal to thecourt”.

“corporeal orincorporeal”.

“working daysfrom”;

“authorises orpermits”.

(iii)

“necessary toenable”.

“ the board issatisfied”

“shall sign acertificate”.

“by or against anamalgamating”.

Companies (Amendment)24

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

246(3)

248(2)

249(2)(b)(vii)

273(1)

274(b)

283(1)

284(1)

287

290

292(2)(c)

292(2)(h)

296(4)

“whcih are to be soacquired”,

“under paragraph(d) of subsection(1)”,

“containingdetalis”,

“On hearing awinding-uppritition”,

“to restrain furtherpeoceedings”,

“when the securiteswere respectivelygiven”,

“In the case wherea windinguporder”,

“shall have affact”,

“Where awindingup order”,

“sequsetration inrespect of thatbalance as aseparate debt duefrom the bankruptor insolvent, andratebly with theother seperatecreditors;”.

“windingup theaffairs”

“prescrihed fee”,

“which are to be soacquired”.

“under paragraph(e) of subsection(1)”.

“containingdetails”.

“On hearing awinding-uppetition”.

“to restrain furtherproceedings”.

“when the securitieswere respectivelygiven”.

“In the case where awinding up order” .

“shall have effect”.

“Where a windingup order”.

“sequestration inrespect of thatbalance separatedebt due from thebankrupt orinsolvent, andratebly with theother separatecreditors “;

“winding up theaffairs”.

“prescribed fee”.

25Companies (Amendment)

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

55

56

57

58

59

60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

298(1)

298(3)

299(1)

324(1)

326(2)

328(1)

352

358(11)(a)

373(4)(a)

377(6)

387

389(3)

396(3)

404(5)

“made a finalretuen”,

“discharge himform all liability”,

“seperatemeetings”,

“not exceedingtwelve moths”

“directors shallcease, execpt”,

“on the liquidatoror an anthority”,

“for the pruposeof givingjurisdiction”,

“makes orauthourises”,

“the period of onemoth”,

“the lessor’sconvenants in thelease”,

“shall be exemptform stamp duty”,

“appeal to theCourt of Appeal”,

“to the DeputySecretaty”,

“shall prepareproposals inaccodroancewith”,

“made a finalreturn”;

“discharge himfrom all liability”.

“separate meetings”.

“not exceedingtwelve months”.

“directors shallcease, except”.

“on the liquidatoror an authority”.

“for the purpose ofgiving jurisdiction”.

“makes orauthorizes”.

“period of onemonth”.

“the lessor’scovenants in thelease”.

“shall be exemptfrom the stampduty”.”

“appeal to thecourts”.

“to the DeputySecretary”.

“shall prepareproposals inaccordance with”.

Companies (Amendment)26

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

69

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

414 (MarginalNote)

428(2)

428(3)

431(6)

449(2)(a)

450(3)(d)

450(4)

470(1)

472(2)

481(3)

482

Consent to beappointmented.

“shall beregistrered”,

“sections 16 to 22of the Registrationof DecumentsOrdinance”,

“unless thefloating chargewas registered inrepsect of thatland”,

“to obtain themortagee’sconsent”,

“called upon tofulfil obligations”,

“refrains formacting”

“for the pruposes”,

“court” (whereverit appears in thatsubsection)

“nothing in thissection shall,rejudice theoperation”,

“Department ofthe Registrar-General”(wherever occurs)

“Consent to beappointed”

“shall beregistered”;

“sections 16 to 22of the Registrationof DocumentsOrdinance”.

“unless thefloating chargewas registered inrespect of thatland”.

“to obtain themortgagee’sconsent”.

“called upon tofulfill obligations”;and

“refrains fromacting”.

“for the purposes”.

“court”

“nothing in thissection shall,prejudice theoperation”.

“Department ofthe Registrar-General ofCompanies”

27Companies (Amendment)

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

514(1)

519(3)(c)

First Schedule17(3)

First Schedule17(4)

First Schedule31(1)

FourthSchedulePart I 7

FourthSchedulePart I 9

FourthSchedulePart II20(3)(b)(i)

FourthSchedulePart II20(3)(b)(ii)

FourthSchedulePart II22 (1)(a)

“credited to theFund estabilshedunder this Act.”,

“a pertnershipformed for thepurpose”,

“less that tenper centum”,

“less that tenper centum”,

“board may formtime to time”

“each proviousallotment”,

“those shates ordebentures”,

“combine assestand liabilities”,

“assets andliabilites”

“shares ordebentrures”

“credited to theFund establishedunder this Act.”.

“a partnershipformed for thepurpose”.

“less than tenper centum”;

“less than tenper centum”;

“board may fromtime to time”.

“each previousallotment”;

“those shares ordebentures”;

“combine assetsand liabilities”;

“assets andliabilities”;

“shares anddebentures”;

Companies (Amendment)28

No.Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionsAmendedRepealInsert

90

91

92

FourthSchedule Part II22(2)(b)

Fifth Schedule(a)

Fifth Schedule(b)

“body corporatehas subsidaries”

“generalmeering”

“shareholders atthe date of theretuen”

“body corporatehas subsidiaries”.

“general meeting”;

“shareholders atthe date of thereturn”.

29Companies (Amendment)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING