==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.20151A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 1943$21 – 2015 foieïn¾ 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2015'12'04No. 1943/21 – FRIDAY, DECEMBER 04, 2015

1A - G022650-23(2015/12)

My No.: CI/1763.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

The Collective Agreement entered into between Noritake Lanka Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd., No. 580, Negombo Road, Mabole, Wattala of the onepart and The Inter Company Employees' Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama of the other part on 14th day ofAugust 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon(Revised Edition 1956).

M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.09th November, 2015.

Collective Agreement No. 17 of 2015

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into on this 14th day of August, Two Thousand and Fifteen between Noritake LankaPorcelain (Pvt) Ltd., a Company duly registered and having its registered office at No. 580, Negombo Road, Mabole, Wattala (hereinafterreferred to as the Employer) of the one part and between Inter Company Employees' Union, a Trade Union duly registered and having itsregistered office at No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’) of the other part.Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:-

WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:

TITLE:This Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the ‘‘Noritake Lanka Porcelain (Pvt) Ltd., – Collective Agreement 2015’’

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

1.Parties Covered and Bound.– The terms of this Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the Members ofthe Union employed on permanent monthly contracts by the Employer in the Manual/Operative grades in the Company and are inemployment at the time of signing of this Agreement.

2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Collective Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of April Two Thousandand Fifteen, and shall continue to be in force unless it is terminated by either party giving One months' notice to the other party, in writing,provided however, that no such notice shall be given by either party prior to the 28th day of February 2018, and such notice shall not takeeffect and this Agreement shall not stand terminated prior to the 31st day of March 2018. Any notice given by a party prior to the 28th dayof February 2018 shall have no effect whatsoever.

3. This Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of all the collective Agreements signed prior to this Agreement cominginto operation.

4. Salary Increase.– Parties have agreed to consolidate Rs. 10,846 from and out of the Cost of Living Allowance paid to theemployees at present which is Rs. 11,450/ to the basic salary point of each employee and hereinafter it will be considered as a consolidatedsalary. The balance amount remaining in the cost of living payment which is Rs. 604 along with the revisions made through this collectiveagreement will continue as the cost of living payment as set out in paragraph 5 of this collective agreement.

4 (a) Accordingly, the Employer agrees to revise the consolidated salaries of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreementin the following manner :

Service1st Year2nd Year3rd YearTotalPeriod(01.04.2015-(01.04.2016-(01.04.2017-31.03.2016)31.03.2017)31.03.2018)

0 - 10 Years7.5%5%5%17.5%11 -20 Years8%5.5%5%18.5%21 and above8.5%6%5519.5%

4 (b) An employee's completed number of years of service as at 1st April 2015 will be taken into consiceration in deciding theservice period for the above salary increase.

4 (c) As notional arrears employees will receive a sum representing the amount added to the salary of each individual employee byvirtue of clause 4(a) hereof multiplied by Foru. (Salary increase x 4). This lump sum payment by way of notional arrears willattract consequental payments such as Overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund etc. and the Employer agrees to pay thenotional arrears to the employees on or before 31st September 2015.

4 (d) Both parties agree that the consolidated starting salary of a new recruit inclusive of all statutory allowances will beRs. 15,000 with effect from 14th August 2015.

4 (e) The union, together with the employees agree that they shall not during the pendency of this agreement make any demandsfor wage increases or related allowances/payments or make further demands of any financial nature over and above thosestated in this agreement.

5. Cost of Living Allowance.– The balance of Rs. 604 available after the consolidation referred to in Clause 4 above has been addedto the payment due as Cost of Living Allowance from 1st April 2015. (Rs. 604 + Rs. 400 + 1,004) Accordingly the employees covered andbound by this Agreement will receive a Cost of Living Allowance as follows.

With effect from 1st April 2015 - Rs. 1,004With effect from 1st April 2016 - Rs. 1,404With effect from 1st April 2017 - Rs. 1,804

Arrears of Cost Living Allowance (Rs. 400x4) will be added to the arrears payment referred to in sub-clause 4 (c) above andpaid to employees on or before 30th September, 2015.

6. The Union, together with the members, hereby undertake that during the period of operation of this Agreement, they shall extenttheir fullest co-operation to the Company to carry out all its lawful activities.

7. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government prescribes increases in salary by any written law, applicableto the Company, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increases granted in terms of this Agreement. However, if theGovernment recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer and the Employees.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.20153A

8. Shift Allowance.– The Shift Allowance will be revised in the following manner with effect from 1st April 2015.

Shift

2 p.m.– 10 p.m.Rs.754 a.m. – 12 noonRs. 10010 p.m. – 6 a.m.Rs. 150

9. Leave.– The leave entitlement for employees covered by this Agreement will be as per the leave granted at present which is statedin the letter of appointment.

10. Suspension.–1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–

(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where such charge or charges mayresult in termination of the services of the Employee.

(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or intimidation or witnesses or damage to the property/evidence or disturbanceof business of the Employer;

(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding fourteen (14) working days after the inquiry.

2.At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide theEmployee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an inquiryinto the charge or charges in terms of clause 11 hereof.

11. Disciplinary Procedure.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then –

1.Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 10 hereof or not, the Employee shall befurnished with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct allegedagainst such Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days inwhich to give the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.

2.Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to theEmployer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in thecircumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish awritten answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by the Employee to theEmployer, the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circum-stances of the case.

3.If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is undersuspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.

4.If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice andsuch answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Fourteen (14)working days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice. A memberof the Union can be present as a representative at the disciplinary inquiry.

5.After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the showcause notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an orderexcept for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within forty (40) workingdays from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter inrespect of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from suchcharges.

6.If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that.–

(a) The Employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject tothe provisions of sub-clause 10(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspensionirrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings asto the charges in the show-cause notice;

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’ssuspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;

(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show-cause notice against the Employee, theEmployer is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police orother authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police orother authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee thematter had been previously referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that theoutcome of such investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the Employee mayremain suspended without pay.

7.In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs(a) to (c) of sub-clause (6) hereof within six months (06) of the date of suspension of the Employee, unless he isprevented from so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employeror it is agreed between the Employer and the Employee/ Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of sixmonths (06) be extended for such further time as may be agreed.

8. An Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses (4) and (5) hereof where the Employerproposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges.

9.However, the above precedure may be changed or amended at the discretion of the Employer, on exceptional circum-stances, in consultation with the Union.

12. The Employer, the Union and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement undertake that they shall not during thecontinuance of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions agreed upon herein, other than by mutualagreement, and the Union shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action in relation to any dispute connected with or arising out of anymatter covered by this Agreement.

13. In the event of a dispute arising out of a matter not covered by this Agreement, parties agree to resolve any such dispute in thefollowing manner :-

(a) Firstly, the Branch and the Management would attempt to settle such issue/ dispute at the Company level. A writtenstatement of the dispute shall be forwarded by the Union/ Branch Committee to the Employer, and at least three weeksgiven for the Employer to resolve the dispute.

(b) In the event of non - resolution of the dispute at Stage (a) above, parties agree to meet at The Employers' Federation ofCeylon (EFC) in order to resolve such dispute within 14 days after such matter is referred to the EFC by the Parent Union.

(c) In the event of non - resoulution of the dispute at Stage (b) above, parties agree to resolve the relevant dispute in accordencewith the conciliation preceedings, in terms of the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.

(d) In the event of non - resolution of the dispute at stage (c) above, the Union agrees that they would give 14 days prior notice,in writing, before engaging in any Trade Union action.

(e) However, if in the opinion of the controling body of the Union, a dispute has been caused by an act of the Employer, whichis mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the Union or is seriously detrimental to theinterests of the Union, Trade Union action may be resorted to by the Union without following the procedure laid downabove provided, however, that at least seven (7) days written notice shall be given by the Union to the Employer and theCommissioner - General of Labour.

14. The terms and conditions presently applicable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement will remain unchangedsubject to the changes referred to herein, during the period of this Agreement.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.20155A

In witness hereof, parties have set their hands on this 14th day of August, Two Thousand and Fifteen at Colombo.

12 - 669

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

My No. : CI / 1702.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between People's Bank, No. 75, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo - 02 of the onepart and The Ceylon Bank Employees' Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 02nd day of July 2015 is herebypublished in terms of Section o6 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.16th November, 2015.

Collective Agreement No. 30 of 2015

Collective Agreement

2015 TO 2017

This Collective Agreement is made and entered into on this 2nd day of July 2015 by and between the People's Bank, No. 75, Sir ChittampalamA. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo - 02 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Bank') of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union No. 20,Temple Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Union') of the other part.

Title : - This Agreement shall be known and referred to as "The Peoples Bank Collective Agreement with the Ceylon Bank Employees'Union for the period First day of January Two Thousand and Fifteen to Thirty First day of December TwoThousand and Seventeen.(01.01.2015 to 31.12.2017).

1.Employers to be Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the People's Bank, which is a party to thisAgreement.

2.Employees to be Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind members of the Ceylon Bank Employees' Unionin employment with the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories for whom a salary scale has been prescribed in this Agreementin the Annexure – I hereto.

3.Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall come in to force with effect from First day of January Two Thousandand Fifteen (1st January 2015) and thereafter continue to be in force, unless it is determined by either party giving six months notice in writingto the other party, provided however that no party shall give such notice to the other party after the First day of July Two Thousand andSeventeen (1st July 2017).

4. Matters covered and Variation of terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–

(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the Unionin relation to the period 2015 - 2017 and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusionof this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the matterswhich were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement other than the matters relating to non salarybenefits which shall be discussed by the Management of the bank with the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union and reach finalityon or before Thirty First day of December Two Thousand and Fifteen (31st December 2015). After an agreement has beenarrived at, as regards non salary benefits the terms and conditions of same shall be annexed to this agreement which shall forman integral part thereof.

(b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or anyof the terms and conditions of employment or benefits applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than bymutual agreement with the Bank.

5. Salary Components.– As from First day of January Two Thousand and Fifteen (1st January 2015) each employee covered andbound by this Agreement shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary whichcomprises the following components:–

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.20157A

(a)Fixed component linked to ''Basic Salary" and related allowances.

(b)Variable Component linked to performance. (Please refer Section 5.2)

5.1 Fixed Component.– The fixed Component comprises the following items :

(i)Revised Basic salary as set out in the Annexure - I hereto. (Increments will be granted continuosly notwithstanding themaximum point given in the salary scales)

(ii)Allowances:-

(a)In addition to the basic salary the following allowances will be paid, effective from First day of January Two Thousandand Fifteen (1st January 2015)

(i)Cost of Living Allowances as per item (b) below(ii)Rent Allowance as per item (c) below(iii)10% of Basic salary, Rent Allowance and Cost of Living Allowance.

(b)The Cost of Living Allowance at the rate of Rs. 2.75 will be frozen as at December 1999 at the index point of 2,404.9commencing from January 2000 every one (01) point change over and above the Colombo consumer Price Index(CCPI) of December 1999 only will be computed at Rs. 3. If the Index point drops below December levels i.e. 2,404.9,the computation should be at the rate of Rs. 2.75 per point.

(c)The Rent Allowance, which will be 20% of the Basic salary.

5.2 Variable Component.– Basis of determination of Variable Component shall be decided upon in the course of time.

6. Taxes on Emoluments.– Payee Tax on emoluments of staff shall be borne by the bank.

7. Conversion of the Basic Salary.–

(a)The basic salaries of all employees will be converted to the revised scale by applying the step for step (point by point) methodof conversion.

e.g. An employee who had been on the 5 th step of the scale as at 31.12.2014 will be placed on the 5 th step of the relevantrevised scale with effect from 01.01.2015.

(b)Non-Banking Stream personal shall also be placed at the appropriate revised salary scale, on the same basis.

8. Conversion Anomalies.– The People’s Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union jointly agree to execute the CollectiveAgreement for the years 2015-2017 subject to referring to a Salary and Cadre Committee to examine the possible anomalies associated withcalculation of increments in the salary scales.

The Committee will be given a period of Six months from the date of appointment to study and report the methods and theimplementation. The Committee will be appointed within two months from the date of execution of this agreement.

9. Review of the Salary Structure.–The People's Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ union jointly agree to review the existingsalary structure of the employees referred to in clause No. 5 of this Agreement.

10. Where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this agreement and any existingconcessions extended to the members of the Union are more favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this agreement, thennothing in this agreement shall in any way affect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employment or such concessions shallcontinue to exist, notwithstanding anything to the contray contained herein.

11. Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled to, become entitle on or after that date under or by virtueof any law, contract agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable to than those to which he/ she would be entitledunder this agreement, nothing in this agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorise or permit the Bank to withhold, restrict orterminate such right or privilege.

8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

12. Other Commitments.– The Ceylon Bank Employees' Union further agrees to assist and support the management of the Bankin every manner to obtain the maximum contribution of its members to achieve the targets set out in the Business Performance Plan of theBank.

The common seal of the PEOPLE'S BANK was affixed hereto.at Colombo on this 2nd day of July 2015 in the presence ofMr. Hemasiri Fernando - Chairman andMr. N. Vasantha Kumar - CEO/ GM of People's Bank.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.20159A

Annexure - I

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

People's Bank

Allowances payable in Addition to the Basic Salary - 2015 - 2017.–

(a)Rent allowance (20% of Basic Salary)

(b)The Cost of Living Allowance at the rate of Rs. 2.75 will be frozen as at December 1999 at the index point of2,404.9 commencing from January 2000 every one (01) point change over and above the Colombo Consumer PriceIndex (CCPI) of December 1999 only will be computed at Rs. 3.00. If the index point drops below the Decemberlevel, i.e. 2404.9 the computation should be at the rate of Rs. 2.75 per point.

(c)10% of Basic Salary, Cost of Living Allowance and the Rent Allowance.

12 - 680

Annexure - I

My No.: CI / 1220.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited, No. 31, Katukurunduwatte Road, OffAttidiya Road, Rathmalana of the one part and the Commercial and Industrial Workers Union, No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 02 of the otherpart on 17th day of February 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the LegislativeEnactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.9th November, 2015.

Collective Agreement No. 09 of 2015

ASSOCIATED BATTERY MANUFACTURERS (CEYLON) LIMITEDCONTENTS

SUBJECT (In Alphabetical Order)PAGE NO.

Annual Excursion21Annual Holidays14Annual Increments16Annual Party21

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201511A

Anomalies in the course of implementation18Attendance12Attendance Bonus-On Production19Bonus15Casual Leave14Christmas Gift21Date of operation and duration12Disciplinary Action16Dispute Procedure18Employee Loans21Factory operating procedure21Forfeiture of wages13Free Battery Issue21Funeral Assistance21General Terms and Conditions12Hours of Work13Long Service Award20Meal Allowance20Medical Benefits20Non Recurring Cost of Living Allowance (NRCLA)15Non Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity (NRCLG)15Overtime13Parties covered and bound12Probation12Production Bonus Scheme18Production Targets and Operating Procedures12Provident Fund15Retirement17Shift Allowance20Sick Leave14Sick Leave-Accumulation and Encashment14Soap21Statutory Holidays14Suspension16Terminal Benefits15Termination of Service17Title12Trade Union Action18Travelling Reimbursement21Union Recognition17Wages14Wages for the period less than one month15Warning16Wedding Assistance21Weekly Holiday13

PART II

Breaches of Collective Agreement21Domestic Inquiries21Union Meeting22Duty Leave22Check Off22

FORMS

Form No. 1 - Authorization23Form No. 2 - Revocation24

PART III

Containing definition of certain words24

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

SCHEDULES

Schedule 1 - Employees covered and bound25Schedule 2 - Annual Increments25Schedule 3 - Operating Procedure / Work Schedules25Schedule 4 - Production Targets26Schedule 5 - Production Bonus Scheme29Schedule 6 - Contract of Employment after retirement.30

Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT – 2010

This Collective Agreement made and entered into on this 22nd day of December, Two Thousand Ten between Associated Battery Manufac-turers (Ceylon) Limited, having its Registered Office at No. 31, Katukurunduwatte Road, Off Attidiya Road, Ratmalana, (hereinafter referredto as the ‘Employer’) of the, one part and the Commercial and Industrial Workers Union registered under Number 4252 under the Trade UnionOrdinance, having its registered office at No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 2, ( hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’), of the other part,witnesseth,

Whereas the Union has shown to the satisfaction of the employer that it represents a majority of the employees employed by the Employer inthe Manual grades in the Employers factory, the Employer having negotiated with the Union regarding terms and conditions of service of thefactory employees concerned have agreed to as follows :-

1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited employeesCollective Agreement of 2010.

2. Parties Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employees the Union and all its members employed onpermanent monthly contracts by the employer, in its factory in the categories referred to in the First Schedule hereto and hereinafter referred toas ‘The Employees’.

3. Date of Operation and Duration .– This Agreement shall be effective from the First day of August Two Thousand Ten and shallcontinue in force for a minimum period of four (4) years unless it is terminated by either party giving one (1) months notice in writing to theother of its intention to terminate the Agreement, provided however, that neither party shall give such notice on or before 31st July TwoThousand Fourteen.

4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer and an Employee covered and bound by thisAgreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which shall come into being at anytime after the date hereof during the continuance in force of the Agreement.

5. Production Targets and Operation Procedures.– The Union agrees that the minimum Production Targets and operating proce-dures will be as set out in Schedules III and IV hereof. The minimum production targets are subject to normal conditions and are variable inevent of machine break-downs, power failures, quality of raw materials or other circumstance acceptable to the Management.

6. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by an Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months, providedhowever, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee, theprobationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee inwriting the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shallhave the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory serviceduring the period of probation or extended probation and the employee has not been confirmed by the Employer, the Employee shall be deemedto be confirmed in its Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation or extended probation as thecase may be ended.

7.Attendance. –(a)Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on every day (otherthan a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory or job and shall there remain available for work throughout thenormal working hours.

(b)If, at the, factory work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed to be readyand willing to perform work within his capacity and skill in any other occupation at any department of the Employer wherework is available.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201513A

(c)Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable forappropriate disciplinary action.

8.Hours of Work.– The normal working hours shall be those hours which are customarily worked in the Establishment of theEmployer.

9.Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer, an Employee fails to hold himselfavailable for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct hiswages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.

10.Overtime(a)If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the Employer.Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, which is acceptable to the Employer shallconstitute neglect of duty, for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.

(b)Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19 (a) hereof.

11.Weekly Holidays. –(1)In respect of each week, every factory Employee to whom the Shops and Office Employees' Act will not apply, shall beallowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday. Provided however, that if an Employee has notworked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period of overtime work during that week, he shallbe liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of the weekly holiday for thatweek computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19 hereof.

(2)In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in Sub - clause the Employer shall include –(i)Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday ;

(ii) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 13 hereof ; and

(iii) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.

(3)The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions :

(i) A day within the six (6) days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee, as a holidaywith remuneration. Provided however, that if any employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeitand his Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in Sub - clause (a),then and in such event, that Employee shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wagecomputed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19 (b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowedto the Employee within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further that in respect of not more than two (2)such weekly holidays in any one calendar month, an Employer may with the consent of the Employee.–

(a) instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which thatEmployee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage asaforesaid, pay him one day's wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 hereof in lieu ofsuch alternate holiday, or

(b) in case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaidin respect of which alternate holiday, he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deducta day’s wage as aforesaid employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.

(ii) That in respect of work done on such holiday, an Employee shall be paid as remuneration –

(a) One and half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (inclusive of one hour for meal), and

(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 19 hereof for eachsubsequent hour of work.

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

12.Annual Holidays.– Annual Holidays shall be allowed to Employees in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Boardapplicable to them.

13.Statutory Holidays. – Statutory holidays shall be allowed to employees in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Boardapplicable to them save and except in the case of those employees who shall be covered by the provisions of the Shops and Office EmployeesAct where the provisions of that Act shall apply in this regard.

14.Casual Leave.–

(a). In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment that Employeeshall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill health if that employee’sentitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as “Casual leave”) with remuneration for theperiod or an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall beliable to pay such Casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2)days casual leave shall be taken at any time saves and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided further that any workershall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays.Provided further that in respect of any Employees first year of employment including any period of probation he shall beentitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two (02) months service.

(b)Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state the reason for theapplication. Where an employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave his difficulty shall be notified to theemployee as soon after the application is made and such case the employee may be required to state the reason for theapplication in order that the employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.

(c)An employee who avails of less than seven (7) days casual leave during any calendar year shall be entitled to receive apayment equal to two (2) days salary in respect of each day of unavailed of casual leave.

15.Sick Leave. –(a)In any year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that –

(i)His illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his employer)within seven (7) days if the absence exceeds seven (7) days or where the absence is less that 7 days on the date thatsuch employee reports to work. However in any one year an employee may avail himself of up to a maximum ofseven (7) single days which are not consecutive on production of a sick note. Provided however that an employeehas to inform the company within 24 hours, if the prior approval has not been obtained.

(ii)The Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 6 hereof. Provided however, that anemployee who has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the firstyear of employment be entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) monthsprobation and sick leave not exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months probation.

(b)Accumulation and encashment of sick leave.–

(i)An employee who avails of less than twenty one (21) days sick leave during a calendar year is permitted either toaccumulate or encash the unveiled sick leave lying to his credit in that year.

(ii)Accumulation is permitted up to sixty three (63) days and could be utilized during any prolonged illness subject toa medical certificate acceptable to the Employer being produced.

(iii)Sick leave thus accumulated will be valid up to the date of retirement/or cessation of employment.

(iv)Encashment of sick leave will be at the rate of two (2) days pay for each day of unutilized leave.

(c)The entitlement to sick leave is subject to the leave being approved before hand or the employer being informed of the reasonfor absence.

(d)Encashment of next years sick leave is permitted up to seven and half days (7 1/2) if an employee who has exhausted hisleave entitlement is unable to attend his normal work due to an accident, surgery or any other sickness which needshospitalization.

16. Wages.–(a)With effect from the First day of November 2010 the monthly consolidated wages of employee shall be revised by theaddition of a sum equal to 5% of the wage applicable to each employee as at 31st October 2010 and shall thereafter bepaid wages accordingly.

(b)Employees who joined after 01st June 2003 upto 31st October 2010 will be eligible to receive Rs. 3,500 as at 01st

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201515A

November 2010 and another Rs. 250 on 01st November 2011 and further Rs. 250 on 01st November 2012. Thisamount will be added to their basic salaries.

17. Non-Recurring Cost of Living Allowance (NRCLA) .– No change in the existing payments of Non Recurring Cost of LivingAllowances (NRCLA) which was paid to the respective employees in September 2009. Those payments will be continued to be paid as per theterms and conditions set out in clause 17 of the Collective Agreement 2006.

Parties agreed that in the event of re-publication of the Colombo Consumers Price Index (CCPI) during the pendency of this CollectiveAgreement parties would renegotiate and make an applicable payment from the date of commencement of publication of such index.

18. If During The Continuance in force of the Agreement The Government of Sri Lanka.–(a)Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging theEmployer to make such payment, the employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and interms of such written law.

(b)Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whetheror not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.

19. Wages for the Period less than one month.– For the purposes of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less thanone month shall be computed in the manner following :

(a) For one hour - the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240).

(b) For one day - the monthly wage divided by thirty (30).

(c) For one half day - a day's wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)(either morning or afternoon).

(d) For one week - a day's wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7).

20. Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity (NRCLG) .– Parties have agreed that in the event of re - publication of the ColomboConsumers Price Index (CCPI) during the pendency of this Collective Agreement parties will renegotiate and calculate an applicable paymentand would make a payment accordingly with effect from the date of such republication of the Colombo Consumers Price Index (CCPI).

21. Provident Fund.– An employer and an employee shall contribute to the provident fund at rates prescribed by the EmployeesProvident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.

22. Terminal Benefits.– Terminal benefits will be paid in accordance with the formula in the Gratuities Act, No. 12 of 1983.

23. Bonus. –(i)Without prejudice to the employers claim that Bonus payments are ex-gratia, the employer shall during the pendency of thisAgreement pay by way of an Annual Bonus to each employee in the month of April each year a sum amounting to two andhalf (2 1/ 2) months salary. The salary for this purpose shall be the monthly salary payable to an employee as at March of suchyear.

(ii)In addition to the payment referred to at (i) above the employer undertakes to pay, also in the month of April each year thefollowing amounts subject to the achievement of production levels in the factory as detailed hereunder during the precedingfinancial year, i. e. 1st April to 31st March.

(a)A sum equal to half (1/ 2) months salary provided the production in the factory during the preceding financial year isnot less than 237,000 units of batteries.

(b)A sum equal to one (1) months salary, inclusive of the amount referred to at (ii) (a) above, provided the production inthe factory during the preceding the financial year is not less than 270, 000 units of batteries.

(c)A sum equal to one and a quarter (1 1/ 4)) months salary, inclusive of the amount s referred to at (ii) (a) and (b) above,provided the production in the factory during the preceding the financial year is not less than 296, 000 units of batteries.

(d)A sum equal to one and a half (1 1/ 2) months salary, inclusive of the amounts referred to at (ii) (a), (b) and (c) above,provided the production in the factory during the preceding the financial year is not less than 302, 000 units of batteries.

16AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

24. Annual Increments.– Employees will be entitled to annual increments with effect from 01st April each year in accordance withthe formula set out in the second schedule hereto.

(a)An annual increment of an employee can be suspended, stopped or differed by the Employer by way of punishment formisconduct.

(b)An annual increment if suspended, stopped or differed shall mean;

i.Differed the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout his career.ii.Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage.iii.Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependantupon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension, where on such decision an increment is neither stoppednor differed, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shallaccrue to the employee concerned.

25. Warning.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a letter,a duplicate of which shall be signed by the employee. If the employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the employeeorally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses and the warning letter will be filed in the personal file with the attestation of the twowitnesses.

26. Suspension.–(a)An employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer.–

i.Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal.

ii.In order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance or the business of the employer.

iii.As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.

(b) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (a) i. or within twenty four (24) hours thereof, the Employer shall provide theemployee with a written order of suspension specifying the reason for such suspension and thereafter hold an inquiry into thecharge or charges in terms of Clause 27 hereof.

27. Disciplinary Action.- Where an Employer proposes to proceed against the Employee then -

(a)Irrespective of where an employee has been suspended under Clause 26 hereof or not, the employee shall be furnished witha show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such employeeand such show cause notice shall give the employee not less three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer orexplanation to the charge or charges preferred.

(b)Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to theEmployer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided, however, that if in thecircumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the writtenanswer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an employee to the employer, the employershall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.

(c)If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall, if he is undersuspension, forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlement due for the period of such suspension.

(d)If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer of explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and suchanswer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working daysfrom the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.

(e)After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show causenotice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except forreasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from theconclusion of the inquiry into such charges the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such chargesand no inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.

(f)If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that -

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201517A

(i)The employee shall not be dismissed, then, the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall, subject to theprovisions of sub-clause 26(a) (iii). Hereof, be paid all wages and entitlement due for the period of suspensionirrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to thecharges in the show cause notice.

(ii)the employee shall be dismissed, the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee’s suspensionand accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.

(iii)in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the employee, the Employer isunable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authoritiesfor further investigations or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employeethe matter had been previously referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcomeof such investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspendedwithout pay.

(iv)If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein and the employer shall fails to make an orderunder paragraphs (i) to (iii). Of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee’s own seekingwithin thirty (30) working days from the date of the employee’s suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half hisnormal remuneration for the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration forthe period of suspension in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order underparagraphs (i) to (iii). Of the preceding sub-clause irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.

(v)In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs(i) to (iii) of sub-clause (f) within ninety (90) days of the date or suspension of the employee unless he is prevented fromso doing by reason of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreedbetween the federation and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extendedfor such further time, as may be agreed.

(vi)The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) and (e) hereof where the Employerproposed to warn the employee or where the employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if theUnion disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the employee by the Employer and requests the holding of aninquiry, the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall thenapply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after receiptof the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

28. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an employee shall ipso facto retire.Company will pay his all statutory dues such as Gratuity and other dues on reaching the age of 55 years. However the Company agrees toemploy such retired employee for a further period of one year only from his 55th birthday at his last drawn salary on a fixed term contract. Therewould be no further extension of the contract. He will not be entitled to receive any increase by way of Annual increment or any other increasesreceived by the other permanent employees whether under this collective Agreement or otherwise. The employment will be subjected to theterms and conditions given in the contract of employment shown in the shedule 6 hereof.

29. Termination of Service.– (a)Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any employee by the Employer except for work usually performed bythe day or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise expresslystipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one (1) month and to be renewablefrom month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be givenby either party to the other or his intention to determine the same such month has expired.

(b)Where any employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work he shall be informed thereofat the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period onthe failure of the employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.

30. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members employed in the work placeof the Employer. In regard to issues of general application or the effect of principles such as matters affecting general terms and conditions ofemployment in the work place the following provisions shall apply :

(a)When the Union is representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of the employees whose membership subscriptionis not in arrears the Employer of such employees will recognize that union for the purpose of general claims and matters andnegotiate with it on that basis.

(b)If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer, the Union is competent to makegeneral claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a referendum, which results of such referendum shall

18AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

be held by the Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the Employer and Union and theparties hereto.

31. Disputes Procedure.–(a)In the first instance, the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of such members and givethe Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If, in the Union’s opinion, the Employer’s reply isunsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.

(b)When the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive, it shall ask the Department of Labour tointervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conference and /or discussion with a viewto a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until theDepartment reports failure.

(c)Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof, all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties heretoshall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.

(d)Any party for this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practices during the currency of thisAgreement.

32. Anomalies in the Course of Implementation.– Any anomaly arising from the implementation of this Agreement shall be settledby negotiation between representatives of the Federation of which the employer is a member and the Union and if the matter cannot be settledby negotiations, the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.

33. Trade Union Action.– The Union and its members and the Employees Covered and bound by this Agreement jointly andseverally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form ofTrade Union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute between the Employer and the Union and or its members employee oremployees covered and bound by this Agreement on whether or not such dispute is related to this Agreement, except where such dispute hasbeen caused by an act of Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body, (by which ever name called) of the Union is mala fide orvindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of Union and/ or its members or is grossly unfair orseriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and / or its members. Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days notice in writing shallbe given by the Union to the Employer the Federation and the Commissioner of Labour before the date of commencement of any intended strikeor other form of trade union action consequent to an act of an Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever namecalled) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and/or its member is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of Union and/ or its members.

34. Production Bonus Scheme.–(a) With effect from 01st November 2010 a Production Bonus Scheme in accordance with the formula set out in the Fifth Schedulehereto will become operative.

i.The average output per day over a period of one month would be basis of calculation of the production bonus payment.

ii.The payment will be made under this scheme on a monthly basis.

iii.For the purpose of calculating the production bonus payments the number of batteries produced will be equated to units asindicated in the Schedule at sub clause (b) hereof.

(b) Type of batteryNo. of Units

13L (6V)1/221L (6V)17R19R113/111N 1201 1/219/ 3R1 1/2N 200223/ 3R2N 50 Z1N701NS 401N 1001 1/2Motor Cycle1/4

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201519A

i.The total number of complaint batteries received during the month due to operator faults will be deducted from the totalproduction during the month.

ii.A proportionate deduction will be made from the production bonus of each employee against each day of absence withoutpay. Example in a month where there have been twenty (20) days of production the deduction shall be 1/ 20 th of theproduction bonus for a single day absence without pay.

iii.In the event of additional facilities involving capital expenditure being installed in the factory and/ or additional staffrecruited, both parties to this agreement, agree to review and revise this production bonus scheme.

35.Attendance Bonus - On Production.– The attendance bonus scheme in operation in accordance with the formula set out belowwill continue to operate.

(a). When average number of batteries produced during a month is between 1080 to 1187 batteries:-

(i)Employees present on all working days in any calendar month up to 20 working days shall receive Rs. 1,000 in respectof such month.

(ii)In the event of any month constituting more than 20 working days and employee shall receive Rs. 250 in respect ofeach such extra day, provided he is present at work on at working days of such month.

(iii)Employees absent up to 05 working days in any month shall receive payments as follows :-

Absence up to 01 day-Rs. 750Absence up to 02 days-Rs. 500Absence up to 03 days-Rs. 200Absence up to 04 days-Rs. 100Absence up to 05 days-Rs. 50

(b)When average number of batteries produced during a month is between 1188 to 1295 batteries:-

(i)Employees present on all working days in any calendar month up to 20 working days shall receive Rs. 1,300 in respectof such month.

(ii)In the event of any month constituting more than 20 working days an employee shall receive Rs. 300 in respect of eachsuch extra day, provided he is present at work on all working days of such month.

(iii)Employees absent up to 05 working days in any month shall receive payments as follows :-

Absence up to 01 day-Rs. 950Absence up to 02 days-Rs. 600Absence up to 03 days-Rs. 300Absence up to 04 days-Rs. 150Absence up to 05 days-Rs. 50

(c)When average number of batteries produced during a month is between 1296 to 1349 batteries :-

(i)Employees present on all working days in any calendar month up to 20 working days shall receive Rs. 1,500 in respectof such month.

(ii)In the event of any month constituting more than 20 working days an employee shall receive Rs. 350 in respect of eachsuch extra day, provided he is present at work on all working days of such month.

(iii)Employees absent up to 05 working days in any month shall receive payments as follows :-

Absence up to 01 day-Rs. 1,100Absence up to 02 days-Rs. 700Absence up to 03 days-Rs. 400Absence up to 04 days-Rs. 200Absence up to 05 days-Rs. 100

20AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

(d)When average number of batteries produced is over 1350 batteries per month.-

(i)Employees present on all working days in any calendar month up to 20 working days shall receive Rs. 2,000 inrespect of such month.

(ii)In the event of any month constituting more than 20 working days an employee shall receive Rs. 400 in respect ofeach such extra day, provided he is present at work on all working days of such month.

(iii)Employees absent up to 05 working days in any month shall receive payments as follows :-Absence up to 01 day-Rs. 1,500Absence up to 02 days-Rs. 1,000Absence up to 03 days-Rs. 500Absence up to 04 days-Rs. 250Absence up to 05 days-Rs. 50

* Approved leave shall also be regarded as ‘’absence’’ for this purpose.* Work done on weekends, poya and other statutory Holidays will not be accounted for as working days.* Those who are allocated ‘LIGHT DUTY’ will not be entitled for the above bonus. Each day of ‘LIGHT DUTY’ will betreated as a day of absence for this purpose.

36. Meal Allowance.–(a) The Employer agrees to pay a meal allowance of Rs. 70 per day to each employee who is present at work.

(b) In addition to the meal allowance referred to above the employer shall provide each employee who is present at work withthe following on each working day.–

i. Reimbursement of the value of a soft drink (coca cola)

ii. An egg at 12 noon

iii. A bun

(c) Three packets of 400 grams Anchor milk food will be provided (in lieu of a cup of Nestomalt at 3.00 p.m.) per month peremployee.

37. Long Service Award.–

(a) Each employee who has completed 10 years of uninterrupted service will be entitled to a gift of two gold sovereign from theEmployer.

(b) On the completion of 20 years of uninterrupted service an employee will be entitled to receive three gold sovereigns.

(c) On retirement from the services of the company as employee will receive three (3) gold sovereigns.

38. Shift Allowance.– Factory employee will be entitled to shift allowance as set out hereunder, when working on shifts:–

Rs. 15.00- First shiftRs. 25.00- Second shiftRs. 45.00- Third shift

39. Medical Benefits. –(a)Reimbursement of medical expenses for the family will be made to a maximum of Rs. 10,000 per annum to each employeeand the same will be deposited in a savings account at the beginning of the financial year.

(b)The Employer will obtain an individual life insurance policy for the employee and a hospitalization insurance policy up toRs. 125,000 per annum on behalf of each employee, spouse and their three children under 18 years of age. Each employeewill agree to contribute Rs. 100 per month towards this hospitalization insurance.

(c)The Employer agrees to reimburse the value of spectacles purchased by the employees up to rupees three thousand fivehundred (Rs. 3,500) once in five years.

(d)The employer agrees to reimburse the value of lenses replaced by the employees upto Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred(Rs. 1500) once in two years.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201521A

(e)The other existing medical facilities referred to at clause 38 of the Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited manualworkers' collective agreement of 1989 will continue to be extended to employees.

40. Annual Excursion.– The Employer shall provide for an Annual Excursion. The arrangements will be made through consultation andagreement with the Branch union.41. Annual Party.– The Employer shall provide for an Annual party. The arrangements will be made through the Sports club inconsultation with the Branch union.

42. Travelling Reimbursement.– Each employee will be entitled to Rs. 115 per day for attendance at work. The basis for the amountagreed upon is in relation to the cost of a liter of petrol.

43. Free Battery Issue.– The Employer will issue one NS 70 battery free to each employee each year.

44. Funeral Assistance.– In the event of the death of an immediate family member of a permanent employee, the Employer agrees togrant the following concessions –

(a) On a request made by the union under authority of its members the Employer agrees to deduct from the salaries of employees inrespect of whom such request is made, and advance such money to the union.

(b) Grant leave without loss of pay for four (04) employees named by the union and two (02) others at the discretion of themanagement to attend the funeral.

(c) Make a donation of Rupees Eight Thousand (Rs. 8,000) by way of funeral assistance to the employee concerned.

(d) Make a donation of Rupees One thousand five hundred (Rs. 1,500) to buy a wreath for a funeral of a family member.

An immediate family member of an employee for the above purpose shall mean spouse, unmarried children, parents including fatherin law and mother in law. In the case of unmarried employees, unmarried brothers and sisters shall also be included.

45. Wedding Assistance.– In the event of marriage of an employee the Employer shall grant a sum of Rupees Eight thousand (Rs.8,000) to each such employee .

46. Employee Loans.– Employees shall be entitled to a single loan up to a maximum of six months (06) salary deductible withoutinterest in sixty (60) monthly installments. For this purpose a loan application form supported by two employees as guarantors are required.

No any other loans will be considered during this period. On completion of 60 months period after obtaining the loan, the union hasthe right to negotiate for a fresh loan.

47.Christmas Gift.– Rs. 4, 000 by way of a voucher paid during Christmas.

48.Soap.– The company agrees to provide two cakes of Lux soap and one cake of Lifeboy soap per month for each factory employee.

49.Factory Operating Procedures.– The union agrees that the operating procedures and work schedules in the factory shall be asindicated under schedule 03 hereof and as hitherto practiced.

PART II

CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION

1.Breaches of collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the employer the union commits a breach of any of the terms of thisCollective Agreement then and any such event the union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by theEmployer in the succeeding clauses of this part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore suchfacilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Federation may decide.

2.Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 27 is a member of the union, thefollowing provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the employer pursuant to such show cause notice :-

22AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

(a)The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a member or such union (hereinafter referred to as observer) tobe present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.

(b)If the employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuantto such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of theinquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.

(c)An observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an observer shall notbe entitled to represent the employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

(d)The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to request an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any mannerwhatsoever to withdraw there from and an observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.

(e)The absences of an observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,nor the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto.

3.Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the union.–

(a)In respect of each meeting which the union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for permission shall bepreviously made to the Employer.

(b)If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the undernoted conditions :-

(i)That no person other than an employee in the service of the Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union.

(ii)On occasion such as the Annual General Meeting of the union, the office bearers of the parent union may, with theprevious approval of the Employer, attend.

(iii)Fix a time limit within which meeting of the union shall be concluded of adjourned.

(c)It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of suchUnion is granted are duly complied with.

(d)It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in connection witha meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons indemnify the Employer and keep the Employerindemnified against any such damage.

4. Duty Leave.–(i) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave without prejudice to the right of an Employer to refuse to grant permission ifin his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less thantwo office bearers of the Union.

(ii) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the Departmentof Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer, or

(iii) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of wages for such absence.

(b) The Employer will in his discretion grant leave without remuneration to the Employee to attend a Trade Union course ofseminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidayswhich he wishes to utilise for the purpose.

5. Check off.–

(a)In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer bound by this Collective Agreement and in whose establishment themembership of the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the employees covered and bound by this CollectiveAgreement.

(b)The employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employee the current monthlyUnion dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount sodeducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201523A

FORM NO. 1Name of Employer : Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited

AUTHORISATION

As I am an Employee covered and bound by the collective Agreement affecting Employees employed in a manual or labouring capacityin the ..........................................................................................................................................

Trade and bearing No.: .............. and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check off contained in the Collective Agreement to whichI am eligible as a member of the ................................ union.

Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees (Rs.........) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the saidunion on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wage next due immediately following the date hereof.

..........................................................................................................................................Date of signingSignature of Employee

.......................................................................................................FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE

Received on ................................................................(To be filled by an employee)

(c)Every Employee who agrees to the deductions of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to the effect in the form setout in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as “an Authorisation” as set out in the second schedule hereto.

(d)Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in theform set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as “a Revocation”.

(e)As far as practicable, deduction under an Authorisation shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of receiptof such authorisation and shall continue thereafter until the Authorisation is cancelled by a revocation.

(f)As far as practicable, deductions under an Authorisation shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling suchAuthorisation. Provided, however,

(i)That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the union or the Employee concerned for failure to complywith sub-clause (e) or (f).

(ii)That the his discretion, an Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which thedeductions by way of check-off will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed thedeductions permitted by law.

(g)The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the union dues deducted from the wages of the employeesin the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each Authorization by acheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.

(h)The cheque shall be sent, at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to theTreasurer of the union at its address for the time being.

(i)The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.

(j)The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid, any sum other than the uniondues actually deducted.

24AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

FORM NO. 2Name of Employer : Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited

REVOCATION

With reference to the Authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages further membership dues in favor of.....................................................................

Union with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.

.................................................................................................................................Date of signingSignature of employee

..............................................................................................................................FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE

Received on : ..................................................................................................(to be filled by an Employer)

PART III

CONTAINING DEFINITION OF CERTAIN WORDS

In parts I and II of this agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set oppositeto them.

WordsMeaning

Branch UnionThe Branch union of the Commercial and Industrial workers' union in the establishmentof the Employer.

Check offThe act of the Employer deducting at the request of the union, subscriptions payable to theunion, by an Employee from the latter's pay with his concurrence.

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispute Act.

Employees (For convenience someAll Employees covered and bound by this Agreement.times referred to as 'he' or itsgrammatical variations)Employer (for convenience sometimesAssociated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limitedreferred to as 'he' or its grammaticalvariation)

FederationEmployers Federation of Ceylon

Industrial Dispute ActThe Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950

Normal Incremental DateThe date on which an Employee would normally receive an increment.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201525A

Unioncommercial and Industrial workers union

WageThe monthly wage according to the scale of consolidated wage applicable at the relevanttime

WeekThe period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeedingSaturday night

Year A continuous period of twelve (12) months.

Words importing the masculine gender shall include feminine.Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

SCHEDULE IEMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUNDFACTORY EMPLOYEES

01. Team Leaders.

02. Employees engaged in skilled,Semi skilled and unskilledWork in the factory and stores.

03. Drivers.

04. Fork Lift Operators.SCHEDULE 2

ANNUAL INCREMENTS

FACTORY STAFF

The maximum annual increment will be 3% of the salary applicable at the time the increment will falls due.

(a)Employees who have not absented themselves without pay on any day of the year under consideration or up to maximumof 03 days will be entitled to the full 3%.

(b)Employees who have absented themselves for more than 03 days without pay and less than 05 days, will be entitled to 1.5%of the salary by way of annual increment.

(c)Employees who have absented themselves for more than 05 days but less than 09 days without pay, will be entitled to 0.5%of the salary by way of an annual increment.

(d)Employees who have absented themselves more than nine (09) days without pay shall not be entitled to any increment.

The method of computation of annual increments referred to above shall be without prejudice to the employer's right to takedisciplinary action on account of unsatisfactory attendance of an employee.

SCHEDULE 3

ASSOCIATED BATTERY MANUFACTURERS (CEYLON) LIMITED

MANUAL WORKERS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - 2010

OPERATING PROCEDURE/ WORK SCHEDULE

All ancillary operations as carried out present must be continued.

1. CASTING DEPARTMENTServicing and cleaning of all machines, mould and fittings of mould.Cleaning of floor area.

26AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

Dressing of respective pots.Checking weight and thickness of grids regularly.

2. ACID MIXTUREContinuation of present operation of acid mixing.

3. PASTINGWash machines before closing time.Cleaning of sump and clean scrap as at present.Servicing and greasing of machines.Transport of oxide from pasting Department to oxide Mill (Drums).Changing of filter cartridge and pasting belts.Checking of density, penetration and pasted weights regularly.

4. FORMATIONCleaning of formation Tanks regularly and replacing formation bars.All scrap to be collected and weighted and sent to lead Recovery.Keeping Formation Department floor clean.

5. PLATE CUTTINGCleaning of floor area and filter bags.Counting of scrap.

6. ASSEMBLYServicing and greasing of machines and pitch pots Cleaning of floor areaAll scraps should be collected and weighed and sent to the Lead Recovery by the respective Departments.

7. LEAD RECOVERYWeigh tapped out leadOperate effluent pumpsClean and water surrounding areaServicing and greasing of machinesBreaking and loading of slag in the absence of cleanersAttending to filter house when filter house operators are absentChanging of filter bagsRelining

8. OXIDE MILLCleaning of floor areaChanging of filter bagsTransport of Oxide from Mill to pasting Department (Drums)Carrying out routine maintenance of the Mill

9. BATTERY BREAKINGTo load battery scrapsTo work in any other department as and when necessaryTo water and clean the battery breaking area

SCHEDULE 4ASSOCIATED BATTERY MANUFACTURERS (CEYLON) LIMITEDCOLLECTIVE AGREEMENT – 2010

PRODUCTION TARGETS1. Lead Recovery10 charges per dayOn a charge of 800 kgs the recovery should be 560 kgs or above

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201527A

On a charge of 900 kgs the recovery should be 630 kgs or above05 Blend pots per week as and when necessary, One Blend pot will be given on Saturdays when required. But Saturdays will be done drossingonly. Ingots will not be unloaded on Saturdays. The dry paste will be unloaded after melting for 1 3/4 hours. Flue dust, the heating time hasbeen reduced.

2.Main Factory Casting CTL Machine

9293, 750Wirts Machine1.5/ 1764,250929- 4,750 grids per shift1.2F4,250X 1.2-5,500 grids per shiftHand casting (see list below)7221.5--5,000 grids per shiftLead Inserts55 kgsTBS Machine500 kgs

Screw mouldMBO 91 new275 kgsMBO 91 old385 kgsWinkle 95248kgs25/3r237kgsBurning Strips600kgsHand Casting ListFlag small55kgsFlag medium72kgsFlag L/R92kgsL-lug77kgs50 end straps83kgs60 end straps72kgs100 end straps39kgs40 end straps33kgs120 end straps116kgs120 inter straps83kgs

2.2 Paste Mixing06 Mixes per day and washing the machine before closing time. Additional 1/2 mix on 03 days of the week.

2.3 Pasting06 Mixes per day with 06 men.Additional 1/ 2 mix on three days of the week with 929 +ve grids and 1.5grids

2.4 FormationOne person per circuit required to do loading whenever necessary per day both positive and negative. If one employee absentloading will be done without any production losses for 02 days per week excluding week ends.

3. Assembly3.1 Plate CuttingManualPositive- 9.525Negative-11,100Machine- 55,000 per 09 hour shift (6,111 per hour)

3.2 Hard Rubber13L-330N200-10517L-260DIN 45-8019L-26027R-105

28AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

21L-260T.V-2757R-2803 Wheel-2809R-28013/11L-215N 120-14019/3 R-14023/3 R-120

3.3PolypropyleneTo ease the work load created by the increased production, one casual hand will be provided for Polypropylene production

With 09 Operators and one packerSingle line 10 men and double line 18 men

NS40Z-264NS40Z L-264NS60-260NS60L-260NS60B-260N100-165N120 P/P-149

Single line 11 men and double line 19 men

N50z-297N50L-297N50ZL-297NS70-290NS70L-290N70Z-253N70ZL-25395D31R-25395D31L-25380D-290

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201529A

30AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.2015

SCHEDULE 6ASSOCIATED BATTERY MANUFACTURERS (CEYLON) LIMITEDCOLLECTIVE AGREEMENT -2010

CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT AFTER RETIREMENT

ABM/………………/ PMMr………………………………………………………………………………………………

Dear Sir,

You will be reaching the retirement age of 55 years on ……………………………… and will retire from the services of this company as perthe clause ……………… of the Collective Agreement 2010 from that day. As per the above clause company wish to offer you a employmenton fixed term contract for a period of one year from…………………………… and the contract will expire on ……………………………

The terms and conditions of this contract will be as follows ;

01.You will be paid Rs. ……………………………per month is your last drawn salary as at……………………………02.You will be entitled to payments under the production bonus scheme which is applied to our permanent factory employees.03.Your leave allowances and other benefits will be as per the Collective Agreement.04.Your working hours will be those normally worked in the factory and subject to requirements you may be rostered for work on shifts.You will be paid a shift allowances, when required to work on shifts.05.You are required to work overtime as and when required by the Company payments for which will be made as per the Wages Boarddecisions pertaining to Engineering Trade.06.You will be required to contribute 8% of your gross remuneration to the Employees Provident Fund and the Company will contribute12% of the same. The Company will also contribute 3% of your remuneration towards the Employees Trust Fund.07.Your Employment will cease with effect from ……………………………without any further notice.08.You will not be entitled to Annual increments or any other increases provided to our permanent employees under the Associated BatteryManufacturers (Ceylon) Limited employees Collective Agreement or otherwise.

If you are ready to accept this offer of temporary employment consequent to retirement, please sign the duplicate of this letter in the spaceprovided and return same to us.

Yours faithfully,Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited

………………………… .I, ……………………………………………………accept this offer of employment subject to the terms and conditions set out herein andspecifically agreed to the termination of this contract on …………………………………………………………………………………………………………

Date ………………………… .

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'12'04PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.12.201531A

12 - 681

It witness whereof the Parties hereunto sit their hands of this 22nd of December Two Thousand Ten.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA