==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.20161A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 1992$46 – 2016 fkdjeïn¾ 10 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2016'11'10No. 1992/46 – THURSDAY,NOVEMBER 10, 2016

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No.: Cl/1813.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between the De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Pvt) Limited, Biyagama, Malwana ofthe one part and Inter Company Employees' Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta, Thalangama of the other part on 17th day ofNovember, 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments ofCeylon (Revised Edition 1956).

M. D. C. AMARATUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.11th August, 2016.

Collective Agreement No. 05 of 2016

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made on this 17th day of November 2015, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act, between De LaRue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Pvt) Limited, a Company incorporated under the laws of Sri Lanka having its principal place ofbusiness at Export Processing Zone, Biyagama, Malwana of One Part (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Employer’’) and the Inter CompanyEmployees' Union, a Trade Union registered under the laws of Sri Lanka having its registered office at No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha,Koswatta, Battaramulla, of the Other Part, (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘the Union’’) witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the partiesas follows:

1. Parties to be Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind De La Rue Lanka Currency and Security Print (Pvt)Limited, the Inter Company Employees' Union and employees of the Employer in manual grades on permanent monthly contracts ofemployment (hereinafter referred to as ‘‘Employees’’).

1A – 24530 – 16 (2016/11)

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective for a period of two (02) years and nine (09) months as fromthe 1st day of October, 2015 and shall thereafter continue to be in force unless it is repudiated by either party giving one month's notice in writingto the other, provided however, that neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other before the 30th day of June, 2018.

All parties agreed to put forward their proposals for renewal of the Collective Agreement, in writing, at least 6 months prior to expiry ofthe Agreement.

3. Revision of Basic Salaries.–

(i)Salaries drawn by employees coverd and bound by this Agreement shall be revised in the following manner:

(a)First 9 months commencing 1.10.2015–7%

(b)Second year commencing 1.7.2016–LKR 5,500/-

(c)Third year commencing 1.7.2017–LKR 6,000/-

(ii) De La Rue believes in recognizing and rewarding the best performers, hence the Company at its discretion may grant additionalrewards to best performers depending on the availability of budgetary allowances.

4. Special Ex - Gratia.– The company shall make a special Ex- gratia Payment of 7% of an employee's monthly salary for the three(03) months to confirmed employees serving the company as at 30.9.2015, which shall not attract consequential benefits such as EPF/ ETF/Gratuity, Overtime, etc. This payment shall be made at the end of March, 2016.

5. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Employer that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Employer shall continue to pay twomonths' salary as annual bonus.

The hitherto practice with regard to the time of payment and deductions based on attendance, penalties made after a domestic inquiry,unauthorized absence shall continue. New Employees shall enjoy the benefit of the bonus proportionately. The current practice of 25%forfeiture of annual bonus for disciplinary written warnings will continue.

6. Production Bonus.–

(i) The Employer shall continue to make payment of a production bonus equivalent to one month's salary of an employee subject tothe achievement of the conditions collectively agreed, which will be published at the beginning of a financial year.

(ii) However, it is also agreed by the Employer to make payment on pro-rata basis of the production bonus in the event each of thesaid criteria is achieved based on the weights in percentages are mentioned against each criterion.

(iii) Parties agree that the Employer reserves its right to 10% of forfeiture on production bonus payable on account of writtenwarnings issued after a proper investigation.

(iv) In addition to the above, the deduction from the production bonus shall also be made on account of absence and shall be pro-ratedon a weekly basis. This condition shall be applicable for any period of absence over and above the stipulated leave entitlement. eg.Deduction of 1/52 of production bonus for every 5 days absence.

7. Shift Allowances.– Subject to the present criteria of payment it is agreed by parties that the shift allowances will be as follows forthe duration of the Agreement.

1st shift (6.00 a.m. to 2.00 p.m)-Rs.100.00

2nd shift (2.00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m.)-Rs.130.00

3rd shift (Night shift)-Rs.800.00

8. Medical Benefits.–

(i) OPD - With effect from 1st April 2015, the Employer shall reimburse expenses incurred by employees in respect of OPDtreatment to a maximum of Rs 22,000/- per year and such amount shall be offered to each confirmed employee as a family unit.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.20163A

(ii) Hospitalization Insurance -With effect from 1st April, 2015, the Employer shall pay the premium for Hospitalization Insuranceas a family unit, in respect of hospitalization up to a maximum of Rs 100,000/- per employee per annum.

Both parties agree that the annual revision of the OPD and hospitalization schemes are at the end of the financial year and any revision to thelimits must be considered during the said period. Thus, it is agreed to discuss and work together to arrive at reasonable and market competitiverates for OPD and hospitalization cover during the 2016/17 revision.

9. Parties agree that the terms and conditions hitherto applicable shall continue to be in force subject to the revisions set out in thisAgreement.

It is agreed by parties that the Memorandum of Understanding signed between the employer and the Union (annexed hereto as Annexure I)on the 12th May, 2009 with regard to change of work arrangements, shall also constitute part of the terms and conditions of employment.

It is also agreed by parties that the Memorandum of Understanding being simultaneously signed on 17.11.2015 (annexed hereto as Annexure II)which records the issues agreed during negotiations such as salary anomalies, re-designations, running of print machines, etc. shall form anintegral part of his Collective Agreement, the terms of which shall hold good for the duration of the Agreement.

10. Increase of Shift Handover / Take Over Time. – Parties agree to increase the shift handover / take over time from the present five(5) minutes to ten (10) minutes in order to ensure smooth continuation of work between shifts. Effective shift times will be as follows:

1st shift- 5.55 a.m to 2.05 p.m.2nd shift- 1.55 p.m to 10.05 p.m.3rd shift- 9.55 p.m to 6.05 a.m.

11. Trade Union Action .– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree that they shall not, during the operation of thisAgreement, take or resort to any form of Trade Union action in respect of any matter covered by this Agreement.

Further, the Union agrees that in the event of any form of trade union action the uniformed security personnel will not put the site at riskby taking part in the trade union action. The uniformed security will at all times agree to follow the sites security procedures includinginstructions and guidance provided by the site's Security Manager and the Head of Operations with 100% compliance to ensure that the siteis not at risk under any circumstance.

The Uniformed security personnel agree to continue to report for duty and carry out their routine work responsibilities in full despite anyform of collective action by the trade union. Additionally, the Security personnel agree to carry out and complete work/tasks that they areengaged in at the time industrial action both inside and outside the site until it is completed in line with normal or enhanced securityprocedures in full, eg. inspecting loading operations, guarding or escorting duties will be carried out despite any trade union action,however, it is noted that new tasks of escorting and loading will not be undertaken during collective action. Utmost priority will be givento ensure the site's security is maintained during any form of collective action.

12. Dispute Settlement Procedure. –

(a)The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree that any dispute/problem/issue that may arise between theparties, in respect of any matter not covered by this Agreement, to resolve such dispute/problem/issue in the mannerprovided in clauses (b) to (e) below.

(b)Whenever there is a dispute, a written statement of the dispute should be forwarded by the Union's Branch Committeeto the Employer, and at least two weeks given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.

(c)If no satisfactory solution is found, the matter should be referred to the Parent Union and to The Employer's Federationof Ceylon (EFC) for the purpose of attempting to resolve the dispute.

(d)If after the discussion, the matter cannot be resolved by the intervention of the EFC and the Parent Union, conciliatoryproceedings under the Industrial Disputes Act should be followed.

(e)If after conciliation has failed in the Labour Department, the Union wishes to take Trade Union action, written noticeshould be given of not less than fourteen days (14) to the Employer and the EFC regarding such Trade Union action.

It is reaffirmed by parties to adhere to the dispute resolution procedure stated above in resolving any disputes.

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

13. Co-Operation Between The Parties :–

(i)The Employer agrees to continue with the facility of remitting check off directly to the Union.

(ii)The Employer will continue to grant the facility of permitting the President and the Secretary of the branch to attend monthlymeeting of the Union. The Employer also agrees to release not more than two employees to attend toTraining Programmes/ Seminars conducted by the Union, not more than twice in each calendar year provided, however, that the Union requestsin writing for this facility with sufficient notice to the Employer.

(iii)Employees agree to continue to extend their fullest co-operation in respect of enhancing productivity at the work place,which include the following:

(a)Employees will extend their fullest co-operation in respect of any change in work arrangements andshift operations to facilitate production requirements. The Employer agrees to discuss with the Unionand the employees, proposed changes in work arrangements in advance.

(b)Changes in relation to work arrangements and shift operations as currently practiced at the workplace. In this regard it is agreed by the Employer to discuss in advance with the Union and theemployees, of any changes it proposes to implement in relations to work arrangements.

(c)Flexibility to move within currently practiced shift patterns to facilitate training and multi-skilling,manning of new machinery and production requirements will be continued and carried out to ensureoptimization of human capital.

(d)Flexibility in terms of bringing in personnel on fixed term contract basis based on the demands of thebusiness / customer orders will be based on the following agreed conditions:

(i)The maximum number of personnel that can be employed by the Company on fixed termcontract basis at any given time cannot exceed 30 personnel in line with the currentbusiness model unless agreed in advance by the union and management.

(ii)Vacancies arising in the permanent cadre (levels below the FLM level and excludingvacancies at Administration) will be advertised to permanent and / or fixed termemployees.

(iii)The agreement to employee fixed term contract employees will be valid for the duration ofthe collective agreement.

(e)All activities connected to the management of quality, environment, health and safety, implementationof international standards, continuous improvement and training activities.

(f)All necessary measures in relation to handing over of work between shifts. In view of thisundertaking, the Employer will continue to implement the present practice of granting a grace periodof five minutes in the event the employee reports late.

(g)Taking of all necessary measures by employees in the Maintenance Division in respect of break-downs in order to minimize the impact on production including flexibility to work during factoryshut-downs (New year, Wesak, Christmas and 4 other days, which will be agreed by both parties inNovember for the following calendar year) if required for annual maintenance and other maintenancematters.

In case of a dispute arising as to the interpretation of this Collective Agreement, the English original shall prevail.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.20165A

In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands at Colombo on this 17th day of November Two Thousand and Fifteen.

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

This Memorandum of Understanding entered into between De La Rue Currency and Security Print (Pvt) Ltd. of Export Processing Zone,Biyagama, Malwana, (hereinafter referred to as "the Employer") and Inter Company Employees, Union having its registered office atNo. 158/18, E. D. Dabare Mawatha, Colombo 5, (hereinafter referred to as "the Union").

WHEREAS the Employer intends expanding production with the commissioning of a new production line. This requires the implementation ofa new work arrangement, which will consist of shift patterns for continuous production. The production expansion may require mobility of allemployees in terms of their work arrangements and machines, depending on requirements of production and skill levels.

The Union, its Branch at De La Rue Currency and Security Print (Pvt) Ltd. and other employees have had many rounds of discussions on thenew work arrangements over a period of time and have now agreed on a common understanding in relation to work, the new work arrange-ments and remuneration.

1. Coverage .- This Memorandum of Understanding will cover and bind the Employer and the Union and members of the Unionemployed by the Employer on monthly contracts related to production; who will be required to work on the new 24/7 shift system morefullydescribed in the Schedule annexed hereto.

2. Effective Date and Operation of the Agreement .- With the commissioning of the new production line this Agreement will comeinto effect.

3. 24/7 Work Arrangement.– The new 24/7 work arrangement consists of a 24-hour operation divided into three shifts operatingseven days of the week. For this purpose the employees will be divided into four crews, the details of which are morefully described inSechedule 1 annexed hereto.

4. Remuneration.–

(i)Shift AllowanceEach employee on the new 24/7 work arrangement will be entitled to a shift allowance that is in operation.

(ii)According to the work arrangement of the four crews, described in Schedule 1, if an employee's shift falls on a Sunday,payment will be made at the rate of one and half (1 1/2) times the hourly rate.

(iii)In the same circumstances described in the paragraph (ii) above, if an employee's shift falls on a Saturday, an additionalpayment will be made at the rate of 0.75 times the hourly rate.

(iv)Similarly, if the normal shift of an employee falls on a Poya Day or any prescribed Statutory Holiday, an additionalpayment will be made at the rate of 1 1/2 times the hourly rate.

(v)If an employee is required to work on his / her rest day, the rate of payment for working on such a rest day will be at1 1/2 times the hourly rate.

(vi)If an employee is required to work on his / her off day, the rate of payment for working on such off day will be madeat double the hourly rate.

(vii)If a statutory holiday coincides with an off day of an employee, a day in lieu will be granted before the 31st of Decemberof the relevant year.

5. It is agreed that there will be a general ‘shut down’ of machines on the following four days, i.e. day prior to Sinhala and

Tamil New Year, Sinhala and Tamil New Year, Vesak Full Moon Poya Day and May Day.

6. According to the 24/7 work arrangement there will be employees whose normal shift falls on a statutory holiday or a Poya day and,

therefore, they will be required to work on such days. The roster indicating the shift pattern of all four crews will be displayed on all notice

boards well in advance. If an employee wishes to avail such poya or statutory holiday, he / she has to inform the Employer one (1) week, in

advance, so that the Employer is able to make alternate arrangements to maintain the necessary cadre.

Annexure I

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.20167A

However, such applications will be allowed on a first - come - first - served basis subject to a maximum number of employeesdepending on the particular shift, availability of skilled crew to man the shift. such a mechanism is necessary in order to avoid a totalbreakdown of operations and to avoid unplanned production stoppages.

7. Security personnel presently on a continuous shift system will not be covered by this Memorandum of Understanding.

8. This Memorandum of Understanding will not cover the Administrative Staff of the Employer.

9. At present the Employer does not envisage employing females for night work.However if the need arises the employer will followthe provisions of the law prior to employing them on night work.

10. It is agreed that maintenance staff will be required to work during ‘Shut Down’/ holidays for maintenance work.

8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

SCHEDULE I

.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDINGBETWEEN INTER - COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION (ICEU) ANDDELARUE LANKA CURRENCY AND SECURITY PRINT (PVT) LTD.

Based on the negotiations for the collective agreement effective valid from 1st October 2015 to 30th June 2018 both parties agree tothe following;

1. The following salary anomalies will be adjusted with effect from 1st October 2015.

(a). The salary anomaly between the old SFD operative and NEW SFD operatives.(b). The varying salaries offered to Security Logistics Officers and Lady Security Officers will be normalized to the level of ‘Junior Security Officer’. The designations will change to ‘Security Officer’ to reflect the work they carry out.

2.The porter designation will be re - titled as Production Assistant and a salary adjustment will be made in line with the additionalresponsibilities that they are expected to carry out.

(a) Accordingly, the Production Assistant will be appointed as a Printer III and the salary adjusted in keeping with theadditional responsibility that is required.

The above changes are relevant only to those on Print Machines.

Annex II

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.20169A

3. The Roland and Bobst Printer II’s will be considered as a Printer I based on meeting the following criteria;(a) Be able to effectively facilitate structured problem solving.

(b)Must be able to competently lead and run all 3 machines (Screen, Roland and Bobst) OR two Sub -

Processes `and one Core Process.

(c)Must be able to complete a make - ready on all 3 machines ( Screen, Roland and Bobst) machines.

(d)Run all 3 ( Screen, Roland and Bobst) machines.

(e)Be able to train new employees on the machines.

In order for the next level below the Printer II’s, the Production Assistant will be considered for the position of PII based on successfully

meeting the following criteria;

(a)Must be able to competently lead and run 1 machine.

(b) Must be able to complete a make ready on any 1 of the 3 machines ( Screen, Roland and Bobst).

(c)Run all 3 machines (Screen, Roland and Bobst ) during absenteeism cover and breakdowns, etc.

4. The Acting up allowances for those in the Production function will be given 100% of the day's wage of the acting up position instead

of their normal salary.

The acting as relief for Front Line Managers will be on a different scheme to the acting up payment mentioned above.

5. The appointments to the supervisory type role at the Material department will be completed on or before the 24th December,

2015. It has been discussed and agreed between both parties that the Material Inspector position will not exist in the Company.

This is due to the re-structuring that is required to achieve the ISO 14298 status. The appointments will be based on company's

internal recruitment and selection process.

6. The SFD operatives who were appointed to work on a project at the Material section to be recognized and the salary adjustments to be

made accordingly.

7. The Plate Maker's (Indika Geetharatne) salary to be adjusted to that of a Printer I in accordance with the additional responsibility.

8. The Branch Union and Company will discuss and agree on the ability to release on-shift employees for 4 hours for the Annual General

Meeting (AGM) of the Union, strictly based on the Production plan.Both parties agree that the commitment to the customer requirement

of OTIF (on time in full) will not be compromised under any circumstance. Therefore, the Branch Union will inform the management

at least 2 months in advance of the AGM date and both parties will work together to consider the possibility of releasing on - shift

employees. Further the union understands that the primary objective is to meet the customer requirements/delivery deadlines.

9. The current collective agreement signed under Industrial Disputes Act will continue to be in force to assure that industrial peace for the

benefit of both parties until the new collective agreement is signed.

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

11 – 1136

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.201611A

My No.: id'.s/j;=/02/2016

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, No. 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part andCeylon Workers' Congress, No. 72, Ananda Coomaraswamy Mawatha, Colombo 07, Lanka Jathika Estate Workers' Union, No. 60,Bandaranaikepura, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha, Rajagiriya and the Joint Plantations Trade Union Centre, No. 89, Dharmapala Mawatha,Matale of the other part on 18th day of October 2016, is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

M. D. C. AMARATUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,9th November, 2016.

Collective Agreement No. 35 of 2016

PLANTATION WORKERS WAGES COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2016 - 18

This Agreement made and entered into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon having its registered office at No. 385J3, Old KotteRoad, Rajagiriya of the First Part (hereinafter called and referred to as the party of the First Part, which term shall mean and include themember Companies whose names are mentioned in the annexed Schedule) and the Ceylon Workers' Congress, having its registered office atNo. 72, Ananda Coomaraswamy Mawatha, Colombo 07, the Lanka Jathika Estate Workers' Union, having its registered office at No. 60,Bandaranaikepura, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha, Rajagiriya and the Joint Plantations Trade Union Centre having its registered office at No.89, Dharmapala Mawatha, Matale of the Second Part (hereinafter jointly and severally called the party of the Second Part).

Whereas negotiations took place between the said parties to revise the Wage Collective Agreement entered into between them on 04thApril 2013 (Collective Agreement No. 10 of 2013) in respect of the manual grade employees in the Tea and Rubber Plantations under theManagement of the said companies which the said parties consider to be in place until such time the revised terms agreed by and on behalf ofthe parties as set out hereunder in respect of wages and other relevant payments become effective from 15th October 2016;

1. The employees working on daily rates of pay in a manual capacity shall with effect from the effective date receive the followingremuneration package.

A. Tea

(i)A daily wage of Rs. 500/- on which EPF and ETF benefits shall be paid.

(ii)A daily attendance incentive of Rs. 60/- shall be paid to workers whose attendance is 75% and over of the number of days' workoffered per month. In computing the number of days work offered, work offered on Sundays, Poya days and other statutory holidaysshall not be counted.

In the event, the required 75% attendance works out to a decimal of full figure, the figure shall be rounded down to the completedfull figure before the decimal point.

In the case of the worker who has qualified for the payment of Attendance Incentive, during the preceding 3 month period, but he/sheis hospitalized in the qualifying month, such worker will be considered for the payment of Attendance Incentive as if he/she hasworked on the days he/she was hospitalized and the relevant days would be notionally added for qualification for Attendance Incentive.It is mandatory for the period of hospitalization to be supported by documentary evidence confirming in-house treatment at a Government/registered hospital.

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

(iii)A fixed Price Share Supplement of a sum of Rs. 30/- per day.

(iv)A productivity incentive of Rs. 140/- per day shall be paid to a worker on the days norm task has been achieved. Norms/Task shall be those currently in place. Any revision shall only be done in consultation and in agreement with the UnionAction Committee at estate level based on past practices.

(v)The payments referred to at (ii) (iii) and (iv) above shall not constitute part of an employee's earnings for the paymentof any consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF etc., thereon.

(vi)The over kilo rate of Tea shall be Rs. 25/-.

(vii)For work performed on a Sunday the Employer shall pay 1 1/2 times of the basic wage of Rs. 500/- and the fixed PSS ofRs. 30/-.

B. RUBBER

(i)A daily wage of Rs. 500/- on which EPF and ETF benefits shall be paid.

(ii)A daily attendance incentive of Rs. 60/- shall be paid to workers whose attendance is 75% and over of the number of 'days'work offered per month. In computing the number of days work offered, work offered on Sundays, Poya days and otherstatutory holidays shall not be counted.

When the requried 75% attendance works out to a decimal of a full figure, the figure shall be rounded down to thecompleted full figure before the decimal point.

In the case of the worker who has qualified for the payment of Attendance Incentive, during the preceding 3 monthperiod, but he/ she is hospitalized in the qualifying month, such worker will be considered for the payment of AttendanceIncentive as if he/she has worked on the days he/she was hospitalized and the relevant days would be notionally addedfor qualification for Attendance Incentive. It is mandatory for the period of hospitalization to be supported by documentaryevidence confirming in-house treatment at a Government/registered hospital.

(iii)A Fixed Price Share Supplement of a sum of Rs. 30/- per day.

(iv)A productivity incentive of Rs. 140/- per day shall be paid to a worker on the days norm/task has been achieved. Norms/Task shall be those currently in place. Any revision shall only be done in consultation and in agreement with the Union ActionCommittee at estate level based on past practices.

(v)The payments referred to at (ii), (iii) and (iv) above shall not constitute part of an employee's earnings for the paymentof any consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF etc., thereon.

(vi)The over kilo rate of Rubber shall be Rs. 35/-.

(vii)For work performed on a Sunday the Employer shall pay 1 1/2 times of the basic wage of Rs. 500/- and fixed PSS ofRs. 30/-.

C. There will be no other payment in addition to the payments referred to in terms of items 1A and 1B.

2. Parties agree that the remuneration package as determined under Clause 1 above, shall come into force and apply for a minimumperiod of 2 years (two years) commencing 15th October 2016 and shall continue to be in force thereafter unless it is abrogated by either partyby giving one month's notice to the other. Further, it is agreed that until such time this agreement is at an end neither party shall in any manneradd or attempt to add to, vary or alter this remuneration package or any of the direct monetary payments currently applicable to theemployees.

3. The Unions undertake to support the improvement of productivity of the industry and at estate level by moving to aproductivity linked wage regime based on revenue share/out-grower models etc., through the next agreement. In pursuance of this objective,parties agree to meet and discuss the modalities of implementing the above during the course of this agreement.

4. In order to ensure 'equal value for work without discrimination' payments linked to norms in respect of both gender shall bemade taking into account those applicable at the time (i.e. current norms) for females in the case of plucking tea and men in the case of tasks.There will be no distinction made in applying current norms for tapping.

5. This Agreement is entered into in accordance with Clause 6 Collective Agreement No. 13 of 2003 and untill such time the saidAgreement is renegotiated, provisions stipulated therein shall apply other than in respect of matters covered herein including thosespecifically mentioned in clause 3 above.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.201613A

6. The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the Plantation Workers' Wage Collective Agree-ment No.10 of 2013.

7. The parties once again agree to co-operate and commit themselves in improving the efficiency and productivity of the estatesand encourage more dialogue and settlement of operational issues at estate level in harmony.

8. The RPCs shall continue to maintain fields and keep them cleaned.

In witness hereof parties have set their hands unto on this 18th day of October 2016 at Colombo.

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.2016

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'11'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.11.201615A

11 - 1137

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.