==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2100$25 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'12'06No. 2100/25 - THURSDAY, DECEMBER 06, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

PILGRIMAGE ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 175)

The Pageant in which the Statute of Deity Sri Sumana Saman and The Enclouser Casket with Relicswill be carried to the Sri-Pada

EIGHT years after the entering into the world great Buddha-hood, place the respectful foot emblem on the top of theSamantha-Kuta Summit in view of the invitation of the deity Sri Sumana Saman and made Sri Lanka purified. On that dayonwards it was respected and worshiped and reverenced by the Kings and high esteems.

The statute of the deity Sri Sumana Saman is deposited in the Deity's Palace in the Sri Pada Raja Maha ViharaTemple situated in Galpoththawela of Kuttapitiya Village in the Pelmadulla of Nawadum Korale of Ratnapura District in theSabaragamu Province during the off season.

1. On the day before full moon poya of Unduwap of the year 2018, the ceremonial pageant in which the statute ofthe deity Sri Sumana Saman and the Enclosure Casket with relics will be carried on auspicious hour fromGalpoththawela Sri Rajamaha Vihara to mount Samantha-Kuta as follows :

* The statute of the deity will be open to devotees for offerings and worshipping from 20.12.2018 at6.19 p. m. to 21.12.2018 4.30 a.m.

* Early in the morning of 21.12.2018, the pageant will start from Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara.

1. At 05.20 a. m. the vehicle pageant will be conducted from Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara toKuruwita, Eheliygoda, Awissawella, Dehiowita, Karawanella, Yatiyanthota, Ambagamuwa, Hatton, Maskeliya,through Hatton and official arama at Nall-thanni.

2. At 06.19 a. m. the vehicle pageant will be conducted from Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara toPelmadudlla Town Rilhena, Ganegama, Midigahamulla, Pathakada, Bogoda Aramba, Sannasgama, Dippitigala,Lellopitiya, Welimaluwa, Pathulpana, Pelwadiya, Thiriwanaketiya, Batugedara, Warakathota, Kudugalwaththa,

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 29056 — 17 (12/2018)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.12.20182A

Urban Council clock tower, Pulugnupitiya, Bandaranayaka Mawatha, Moragahayatta, Galkaduwa, reache,Sabaragamuwa Saman Devalaya and return to Moragahayata, Galkaduwa, Juliyan gas near Weralupa Junction,New Town, Anandamemeth Nahimi Vihara junction near, Sivali Vidyalaya near, Technical School Farm GardernJunction again New Town through Moragahayata junction bus stop road to Kudugal Waththa Sri PalabaddalaMawatha, Godigamuwa through Mahawalawaththa, Malwala road through Sri Palabaddala Rajamaha Viharato.

3. At 07.20 a. m. from Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla Town, Bathgamgoda,Migahagoda, Kamarangapitiya, Rambuka, Moratota, Hunuwala, Delgasgawa, Opanayaka, Udawela, Ellepola,Balangoda, Thumbagoda, Oluganthota, Elle arawa junction through Pinnawala reach Bolthumbe SamanDewalaya return to Bagawanthalawa road, through Maskeliya road to official Arama at Nall-Thanniya.

Thereafter through Royal road and Hatton road the statute of the deity and the enclosure casket with relicswill be carried in “Dolawa” upto the top of the Samantha Kuta Summit and the pageant and the ceremonywill be ended.*

* The priority should be given to vehicles nominated by the Chief Incumbent Thero and the other vehiclesshould follow -suit after those vehicles without obstructing the line-up.

2. Here by declare that trading in the temple premises is prohibited. The conducting of trading activities and dansalcould be done along the main road and the by-roads upto the Sri Pada Vihara but without any obstruction to thedevotees and the Pageant.

3. Hereby declare that collection of aids and contributions are prohibited from Pelmadulla Town up to Sri PadaTemple premises.

4. Hereby declare that parking of private vehicles from the main road to Sri Pada Temple obstructing the devoteesand pageant is prohibited.

5. The Ceylon Electricity Board and the Pradeshiya Sabhawa of Pelmadulla are entrusted with the work of fixingstreet lamps and extra lamps in the temple premises and its surroundings roads.

6. Prior to and after the pegeant festival matters related to health care and sanitary and removal of garbage areentrusted with the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabhawa and office of the medical officer of health.

7. The branch office of the Water Supplies and Drainage Board is entrusted with the work of provision of water bykeeping extra water tanks.

8. The police and security services are entrusted with all sort of security messures on the traffic controlling requiredfor uninterrupted conduct of the pageant and moments of devottees.

9. The statute and the relics will be worshipped and offerings will be given at the Sri Pada Station for six months andafter the day of coming Wesak Poya day those will be deposited at Deity's Palace at Raja Maha Vihara ofGalpoththawala and worshipped and offerings will be given. The above 8 orders are valid until to that day.

B. S. G. RUWANSIRI,Divisional Secretary,Pelmadulla.

12 - 586

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.