==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'11PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 11.11.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2096$88 - 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 11 jeks bßod - 2018'11'11No. 2096/88 - SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

DIRECTIONS TO PREVENT THE MISUSE OF MOVABLE OR IMMOVABLE PROPERTIESBELONGING TO THE STATE OR STATE CORPORATIONS DURING THE PERIOD OF AN ELECTIONFOR THE PROMOTION OF OR IN PREJUDICE TO ANY PARTY, GROUP OR CANDIDATE OROBSTRUCTING THE CONDUCT OF THE ELECTIONS

IN terms of the powers vested in the Election Commission under Article 5(C)(ii) of the Constitution of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka to be read with Article 104(B)(4)(a) of the said Constitution, the following orders arehereby made to prevent the utilization of movable or immovable assets belonging to the State or to State Corporations forthe promotion or demotion of parties/groups/candidates at the election or the utilization of such assets so as to hinder theconduct of a free and fair election.

By order and advice of the Election Commission,

M. A. P. C. PERERA,Commissioner General of Elections.

On this 10th day of November 2018,Election Commission,Rajagiriya.

In terms of Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution, the Election Commission or the Commissioner General ofElections shall have the power during the period of the election to prohibit the use of any movable or immovable propertybelonging to the State or any State Corporation for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election of any candidate ofany political party or independent group contesting the election. Under Sub-paragraph (b) of that Article it shall be the dutyof every person or officer in whose custody or under whose control such property is for the time being, to comply with, andgive effect to such directions issued by the Election Commission or Commissioner General of Elections. All Public Officersincluding all Secretaries to Ministries, and Chief Secretaries of Provinces should comply with these directions. Also theHeads of institutions should ensure that all officers coming under their control comply with these directions. These directionsare applicable to all public institutions such as Ministries, Departments, Commissions, Provincial Councils, LocalAuthorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, State Banks, State Universities and Companies taken over by thegovernment.

1A PG 2809 — 257 (11/2018)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'11PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 11.11.20182A

02. Officials

(i) Since the skills and knowledge of public officers and their time are deemed to be State property, no publicofficer should engage in any activity to promote any political party, independent group or candidate insideoffice premises or within the prescribed office hours or after reporting to work or while on duty leave. Officerswho are not entitled to political rights should not engage in political activities even when on leave. Even theofficers who are entitled to political rights may engage in political activities during office hours, only when onpersonal leave or special leave approved in advance.

(ii) No officer or employee is entitled to use State properties viz. other public officers, vehicles, communicationequipment, printers, telephone facilities, etc. for political activities and such use is strictly prohibited.

(iii) Officers of public institutions should refrain from making any recruitment, appointment and promotion ortransfer of whatever nature in public institutions without the approval of the Election Commission other thanthose which are formally executed under the powers vested in the Commissions appointed on the recommendationof the Constitutional Council.

(iv) General transfers of all public officers including teachers and principals of government schools who would bedeployed for election duties in the areas where an election is to be held should be suspended for the periodstarting from the day on which the nominations are received and ending two weeks after the date of poll. Transfersof public officers or officers of State Corporations who would not to be engaged in election duties should notbe carried out on political grounds during the period of election and it is the responsibility of all relevantauthorities to give effect to transfers without leaving room for complaints of political intervention. This is notapplicable to transfers done on disciplinary orders and if any transfer is required to be made on exigency ofservice or under special circumstances such requirement should be brought to the notice of the ElectionCommission and approval obtained.

(v) The consent of the Election Commission may be granted for recruitment/internal promotions initiated beforethe election is declared and was considered by the Secretary to a ministry or head of a department to implementsuch recruitement or promotion without postponement under an all island programme and when the Commissionis satisfied that recruitment/promotion common to whole public service or public sector is bieng out withoutany political intervention. In any of these instances, a request should be made to the Commission.

(vi) When recruitments are made at divisional or provincial levels for the purpose of avoiding interruption to sanitary,janitorial or maintenance services and of maintaining essential services, such recruitments should be made withthe concurrence of the Election Commission and it is the responsibility of relevant authorities to carry outsuch recruitment in a transparent manner, free of political intervention.

03. Functions, Mobile Services and Trade Fairs

(i) Functions :

Functions such as laying foundation stones, opening ceremonies and vesting in the public utilizing governmentfunds and State properties should not be organized or conducted during the period of election since the politicianswho attend these functions may express opinions and views on the election and the conduct of these functionceremonially may lead to the promotion or cause prejudice to a party, group or candidate.

In the case of functions scheduled before the publication of the poll notice and which cannot be cancelled orpostponed, the Election Commission should be informed for instructions of the Commission to proceed ahead.

In the event of conducting such a function spending government funds and if a promotion of or prejudice to anyparty/group or candidate has taken place at such function, the officials who organized such function should beheld responsible. The officers who organize functions/events should bring to the notice of the Returning Officersof respective districts of such events scheduled to be held during the period of election well in advance enablingthem to make arrangements to observe such events and keep records. It is strictly prohibited to make any

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'11PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 11.11.20183A

statement or to do any act, display or distribute flags/banners/posters/leaflets/notices promoting parties/groupsor candidates at any function conducted spending State funds during the period of election and the officers orauthorities of State institutions who organize or fund such functions should prevent such promotions fromtaking place.

(ii) Mobile Services and Trade Fairs

Since there is a tendency to use those mobile services and trade fairs conducted during the election periodutilizing public funds and State property to promote cause prejudice to parties/groups or candidates, organizingor conducting of such trade exhibitions or carnivals should be avoided during the period of the election. Any suchtrade exhibitions or carnivals which have been scheduled prior to the publication of the Notice of Poll to be heldshould be brought to the notice of the Election Commission during the period of election and impossible to becancelled or postponed, for instructions of the Commission. In the event of conducting such trade exhibitions orcarnivals using government funds and promotion of or prejudice to any party/group or candidate is cuased atsuch trade exhibitions or carnivals, the officials who organized such events should be held responsible. Theofficers who organize mobile services and trade exhibitions should also take action to bring to the notice of theReturning Officers of respective districts of such event to be held during the period of election well in advancesthereby enabling them to make arrangements to observe those and keep records.

It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or do any act, display or distribute flags/banners/posters/leaflets/notices promoting parties/groups or candidates at mobile services and trade exhibitions conducted spendingState funds during the period of election and the official or State institutions that organize or fund such eventsshould prevent such promotions and causing of prejudice to any candidate or party or group.

04. Implementation of programmes to provide common amenities and aids and Special Projects

(i) Long term or medium term special programmes may be implemented for the provisions of facilities to thepublic or for the development of the country or continuing programmes to provide citizens with commonamenities when they cannot be suspended due to the election. Action should be taken to ensure that no promotionof or causing of prejudice to any party/group or candidate takes place through the implementation of suchspecial projects or continuing programmes after the issue of the Notice of Poll.

(ii) The Election Commission will monitor whether any promotion of parties/groups or candidates is taking placethrough the implementaton of the aforesaid special projects or continuing programmes conducted during theperiod of election.

(iii) During the period of elections the launch of programmes to distribute State lands, to award title deeds for statelands, deeds to transfer ownership of houses and reliefs to residents in election areas, providing subsidies,fertilizer, agro-equipment for the plantation industry, and providing sports goods, equipment for self employment,bicycles, solar power lamps and building material for house construction, release of housing loans/compensationsetc. should be suspended. However, if it is apparent that suspension of the programmes will impede the meetingof needs of the general public, the Election Commission should be consulted for necessary instructions. In theevent the programmes are already initiated or for which approval has already been obtained they be proceededwith it should be the responsibility of the officers who are charged with the implementation of such programmeto implement them with the participation of only the relevant officials whithout leaving any room for thepromotion of parties/groups or candidates.

05. Vehicles

(i) All officers in whose custody the vehicles belonging to the State including motor cars, jeeps, cabs and buses,should take extra care in maintaining vehicle pools and assigning such vehicles during the period of election soas to prevent such vehicles from being used for the promotion of election campaigns of any political party,independent group or candidate. It should be noted that assigned vehicles belonging to the State and vehiclesrented to be used for specific duties are included in the said category. During the period of election running

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'11PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 11.11.20184A

charts should be properly maintained particularly in respect of pool vehicles and vehicles other than assignedvehicles and the running charts should be scrutinized by a staff officer on a daily basis to make sure that suchvehicles are not being used for any political promotional purpose. Action should be taken to ensure that Statevehicles are not used for the promotion of or causing prejudice to any political party on the pretext that they areused for official purposes with fraudulant entries to that effect in the running charts.

(ii) No vehicle other than those two vehicles assigned for the purpose of providing security to H. E. the Presidentcan be operated without the exclusive registration number issued by the Department of Motor Traffic and assuch no Minister, Deputy Minister, member of their staff or an other person can use State vehicles or vehiclesbelonging to public institutions without the relevant registration number. Therefore, Secretaries of Ministriesand Heads of Departments should ensure that no vehicle belonging to State Departments or State institutions isoperated with garage numbers (fake numbers).

(iii) All Secretaries of Ministries/Heads of Departments should ensure that public funds are not utilized for the useof airplanes or helicopters or other vehicles for political promotional activities.

06. State offices, buildings, schools, other buildings belonging to the State and circuit bungalows

(i) Government offices, buildings, schools, other buildings and circuit bungalows belonging to the State too areState property. Therefore, such buildings should not be used to conduct political meetings, discussions, etc. Itshould not be construed that these directions prevent the buildings and halls which can usually be reserved onpayment of specified fees by any political party/group, candidate, from being so reserved during the period ofelection on payment of relevant fees without causing any discrimination towards any Party/Group. It is strictlyprohibited to provide circuit bungalows, rest houses or holiday resorts owned by the state free of charge topersons engaged in election promotional activities. It is strictly prohibited to reserve any circuit bungalows,rest houses, holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in political propaganda activities, circuit bungalows,rest houses, and holiday resorts belonging to the State or State institutions and situated in the electoral areas ofany politician, officer or any other person on a full time basis during the period of election. Also, no personwho avails of accommodation at the said circuit bungalows should be allowed to engage in promoting any party,group or candidate. Any election promotional material such as posters, banners, cutouts, bill boards ect, shouldnot be allowed to be displayed on buildings owned by the state or public institution or within their premises.

(ii) When playgrounds or bare lands and halls or such other buildings belonging to the State, Provincial Councilsand Local Authorities are reserved for the purpose of holding election rallies to promote a Political Party/Independent Group or candidate, such reservation should be done in a transparent manner ensuring that nospecial favour, priority or discrimination is meted out to any party, independent group or candidate. Also suchvenues should not be reserved for the use of any one party/group/candidate or for any other purpose for aprolonged period of time so as to deprive the use of such venues to others.

07. General

(i) State property, Public institutions, vehicles, equipment and public officers in particular, should not be allowedto be used for the promotion of parties, groups or candidates in relation to the election. No officer shouldallow public officers of State institutions and vehicles belonging to the State or State institutions or rentedvehicles stationed outside the electoral area to be attached to offices or institutions situated within the electoralarea on the pretext that such attachments are done to carry out urgent duties or special development projectwork in electoral areas but used to promote (or cause to prejudice) parties, groups or candidates. Officers,vehicles, equipment, belonging to Media Units of any State institution including Provincial Councils, LocalAuthorities, State Corporations, Boards, State Banks, other Statutory institutions, and State Universities shouldnot be used for the promotion of any party, group or candidate. If entertainment equipment such as podiums,stages, decorations and vehicles, airplanes and helicopters belonging to State institutions are usually hiredunder normal circumstances, such hiring during the period of election should be done in a transparent manneroffering equal opportunities for all parties/groups to hire such equipments.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'11PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 11.11.20185A

(ii) Promotion of or causing prejudice to any party/group or candidate should not be done by way of broadcasting/telecasting/publishing through television, radio and press advertisement or by displaying billboards at publicplaces spending public funds to give publicity to development programmes of the government or to anniversaries/commemorations.

(iii) The directions preventing the use of State properties for the promotion or prevention of election of membersshould be strictly adhered to without any favour. The Secretaries to Ministries should pursue action to giveinstructions in this regard to the Heads of Departments, State Corporations and other institutions coming underthe purview of the the Ministry. Also, the Secretaries of Ministries and Heads of institutions should ensure thatall officers of their respective institutions comply with these directions and instructions.

(iv) Public officers should essentially draw their attention to Article 104B(02) of the Constitution which reads as“It shall be the duty of the Commission to secure the enforcement of all laws relating to the holding of theelection and it shall be the duty of all authorities of the State charged with the enforcement of such laws, tocooporate with the Commission to secure such enforcement”.

(v) Please note that the responsibility of bringing the contents of these directions to the notice of Ministers, StateMinisters, Deputy Ministers and the staff of the Ministers lies with the Secretary to the relevant Ministrywhile the responsibility of bringing such matters to the notcie of Chief Ministers and other Ministers of theProvinces lies with the Chief Secretary and the Secretaries of the relevant Provincial Ministries.

(vi) The Secretaries to Commissions should pursue action to bring these directions to the notice of the Chairpersonsand Members of such Commissions, as applicable.

(vii) In addition to the provisions of the Constitution, it is the duty of the Chief Accounting Officer or AccountingOfficer of Ministries/Departments/Institutions to prevent or to take action to prevent the misuse of Stateproperties.

Non-compliance with these directions is a punishable offence under Article 104(22) of the Constitutionof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

The term “State” wherever it appears in these directions means all State institutions including State Ministries,Departments, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, State Banks,State Universities, Companies taken over by the state and institutions of which more than 50% of sharesis held by the State or State owned companies.

The term “public officers and employees” wherever it appears in these directions means all persons whoengage and are employed in the institutions aforesaid and receive a salary or allowance.

Interpretation

In these provisions “Period of an Election” shall mean the period commencing on the making of theproclamation for the conduct of Parliamentary Election and ending on the date on which the result ofsuch election in terms of the interpretation of the Article 104J of the Constitution.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.