==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'15PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2006$37 - 2017 fmnrjdß ui 15 jeks nodod - 2017'02'15No. 2006/37 - WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

THE INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 10 OF 2006

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Finance under section 212 read with section 217 of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006 under the caption of “Authorized Representative Regulations No. 1 of 2006”.

These Regulations operate effective from February 9, 2017 and rescind the Regulations published in the GazetteExtraordinary No. 1487/3 dated March 05, 2007 and amendment made thereto by Gazette Extraordinary No. 1712/18dated June 30, 2011, effective from the same dale.RAVI KARUNANAYAKE,Minister of Finance.Ministry of Finance,Colombo 01,09th February, 2017.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the Approval of Authorized Representative Regulations, No. 1 of 2006.

2. The Commissioner General shall maintain a register of all authorized representatives registered under theseRegulations.

3. Any individual desirous of being registered as an authorized representative under these Regulations shall applyon that behalf to the Commissioner General in the form provided for such purpose by the Commissioner General.

4. No individual shall be entitled to be registered or to have his name in the register as an authorized representativeunless he has attained the age of twenty-one years, and is a citizen of Sri Lanka residing within Sri Lanka andsuch individual-

(a) has been an Assistant Commissioner of the Department of Inland Revenue who has passed SecondDepartmental Examination and has had service of not less than five years in that position after passing thatSecond Departmental Examination ; or

1A - PG 3415— 532 (2017/ 02)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'15PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20172A

(b) is an individual registered as an auditor under the Companies (Auditors) Regulations ; or

(c) has been a member of the Sri Lanka Audit Service not below the rank of Superintendent of Audit Class II,being a person who has been appointed to that service on the results of a competitive examination ; or

(d) has been a member of the Sri Lanka Government Accountant’s Service not below Class II of that service,being a person who has been appointed to that service on the results of a competitive examination ; or

(e)“(i) has obtained one of the following qualifications -

(a) Executive Level I Examination/Certificate in Accounting and Business (CAB) Level 1/CertifiedBusiness Accountant (CBA)/Certified Tax Advisor of the Institute of Chartered Accountantsof Sri Lanka (CASL) ;

(b) Certificate in Business Accounting of Chartered Institute of Management Accountants(CIMA) ;

(c) Professional qualification foundation level of Association of Chartered Certified Accountants(ACCA) ;

(d) Managerial Level (Level 03) Intermediate Level Certificate of the Certified ManagementAccountants of Sri Lanka of Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka(CMA) ;

(e) Membership of the Association of Accounting Techinicans (AAT) ; and

(ii) has post qualification expereince of at least ten years in accounting (not being self employed)”

5. No individual shall be entitled to be registered or to have his name in the register as an authorized representative,if such person -

(a) has been adjudged by a competent Court to be of unsound mind ; or

(b) having been adjudged as an insolvent or bankrupt, has not been granted by a competent Court, a certificateto that effect that his insolvency or bankruptcy has arisen wholly or partly from inevitable losses ormisfortunes ; or

(c) has been convicted by a competent Court, whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere, of any offence involving,moral turpitude ; or

(d) has been found guilty of professional misconduct ; or

(e) accept employment in any capacity under any employer (other than in an audit firm), other than an authorizedrepresetative approved under these regulations and carrying on business as an authorized representativefor the purposes of the Inland Revenue Act.

6. If the Commissioner General is satisfied that any individual applying for registration is entitled to be registeredunder these regulations, he shall register such individual and issue such individual a letter certifying hisregistration, which shall be withdrawn in the event of his name being removed from the register maintained bythe Commissioner General.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'02'15PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20173A

7. The Commissioner General shall withdraw his approval and remove from the register of authorized representativesthe name of any individual if

(a) such individual has made written application for such removal ;

(b) such individual has become subject to any of the disabilities specified in regulation 5 ;

(c) by reason of any act, negligence, dishonesty or misconduct committed by such individual in his professionalcapacity, the Commissioner General considers that the name of such individual should be removed fromthe register.

8. The Commissioner General shall cause a list of the authorized representative registered under these regulationsto be published in the Gazette at least once a year not later than the thirty first day of March of that year.

03-125

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.