1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2126$29 - 2019 cqks ui 04 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'06'04No. 2126/29 - TUESDAY JUNE 04, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4546 — 20 (06/2019)

Orders under the Co-operative Employees Pension Scheme Statutes No. 02 of 2019 under The SouthernProvincial Council

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, WaterSupplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Development of Southern ProvincialCouncil hereby impose the following orders in terms of the Sec. 24 under the Cooperative Employees Pension SchemeStatutes No. 02 of 2019 under the Southern Provincial Council. These orders shall be effective on the day published in theGazette.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation,Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying &Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Developmentof Southern Provincial Council.

4th Floor, Dakshinapaya, Labuduwa, Galle,At the Minister's Office,Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province,09th April, 2019.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.20192A

STATUTE OF CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES' PENSION SALARY SCHEMESOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Regulations

01. These regulations shall be referred to as the regulations of the Co-operative Employees' PensionScheme Statute 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council.

02.I. Any person, who is employed in any Co-operative Society or Union, registered under Co-operative Act, No. 05 of 1972 as amended by Acts. No. 32 of 1983 and No. 11 of 1992 inthe local limits of the Southern Provincial Council and has received a Permanentappointment within the meaning as stipulated in the Southern Provincial Co-operativeEmployees' Service Commission Statute No. 05 of 2019 (hereinafter referred to as the“employee”) shall be eligible to contribute to the Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme.

II. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in 2.1 above, the persons employed in any Co-operative Society or Union on the date of this Co-operative Employees' Pension SchemeStatute, No. 02 of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council coming into operation, whohave not received a permanent appointment as stipulated in 2.1 above shall be entitled tothe benefits of this Scheme as personal to them, if they have received the approval of theSouthern Provincial Co-operative Employees' Service Commission as Personal to themfor the confirmation of service in Suitable posts in the approved cadre.

III. 2.II above shall not be applicable to those employees recruited after the date of this Schemecoming into operation.

03.I.a) Any person, who has been in service on the date of this Scheme coming into operationand is entitled to join the Scheme, shall intimate his willingness to the contributescheme.

b) Any person entitled to join the scheme shall for the purpose of joining the Schemecomplete the application prescribed for the purpose by the Director of the Scheme(hereinafter referred to as the “Director”) and shall submit to the authorized officialwithin the period of time prescribed by the Director.

c) The period of time referred to in 3.1.(b) above shall not exceed more than one yearfrom the date of this scheme coming into operation.

II. The employee who has joined or will join the permanent employment after the date of thisscheme coming into operation and prior to coming into effect of these Regulations, shallcomplete the application prescribed for the purpose by Director of Scheme and shall submitit to the official authorized by the Director within 90 days from these regulations cominginto effect or from date of appointment whichever occurs later.

III. Any employee who joins the Scheme after these Regulations coming into effect, shallcomplete the application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme andshall submit it to the official authorized, by the Director within 90 date of recruitment tothe service.

04.I. The authorized official shall on the receipt of an application, verify the authenticity and theaccuracy of the particulars furnished by the applicant and shall submit same together withthis recommendation to the Director within thirty (30) days receiver of such application.

Short title

Eligibility tocontribute

To intimatewillingness andapplication

To deem as aContributor

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

II. The applicant, Upon Whose application being approved by the Director, shall be deemed asa contributor to the scheme.

III. Any application to contribute to the scheme may be rejected on any one or more of the

Following grounds :-

a) If is not an employee as stipulated in Section 2.I and 2.II, of these Regulations ;b) If is below 18 years or above 60 years of age ;c) If the application is incomplete ;d) If furnished false Particulars ;e) If the application is not submitted within the period stipulated in these Regulations ;

IV. Shall be determined with the concurrence of the Advisory Committee of the Scheme(hereinafter referred to as the “Advisory Committee”) when a decision is taken to rejectany application, the Director shall, within 30 days intimate such decision to the applicantconcerned.

05.I. Every contributor who joins the scheme shall make a monthly contribution equivalent to5% of his monthly consolidated salary and shall authorize in writing the employer societyor the union to deduct such contribution from his monthly salary and remit same to theDirector. Further a contribution 7.5% of the employees monthly, consolidated salary shallbe paid after having been agreed as such by the Society or union to the director.

II. The employer society or the union shall pay to Director in full or in installments a sum ofRupees Twelve Thousand & Five Hundred (Rs. 12,500.00) in respect of each contributorwho joins the Scheme within a period of time as required by the Director. However, suchperiod shall not exceed six month.

III. The employer society or the union shall remit the monthly contribution deducted from thesalary of the contributor to the Director on before the last day of the following month.

IV. The Co-operative Society or Union, which fails to remit contributions to the Director asprescribed in 5.III, above shall be liable to a fine as follows and such society or Union shallpay such fine to the Director on the date as required by the Director.

Delay less than 10 days-5%Delay from 11 days to 1 month-15%Delay from 1 month to 3 months-20%Delay from 3 months to 6 months-30%Delay from 6 months to 12 months-40%Delay more than 12 months-50%

6. Every contributor who joins the Scheme shall compulsory complete the Payment of Sixty monthlycontributions to the director to be entitled to the pension.

I.a) In the case of my contributor who is above the age of 55 years on the date of cominginto operation of the pension scheme, if he fails to made the minimum contributionin 60 installments, the contributor shall pay in full or in installments the balancecontribution outstanding based on his last drawn salary before he reaches 60 years ofage.

Rejection ofapplicaton

Rejection of anapplication

Contribution

Contribution ofthe society orunion

Remittance ofcontribution

To impose fine

Minimumcontribution andpension

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.20194A

b) provided that if any contributor is unable to pay the minimum contribution in fullbefore he reaches 60 years of age due to any reason, such contributor shall be entitledto pay such contribution in full within a maximum period of 1 year from his retirement.

c) Any contributor who completes the payment of contribution under 6.I(a) and 6.I (b)above, shall be entitled to the pension as stipulated in table 02 of Schedule (A) ofthese Regulations.

II.a) Any employee who was in service on the date of this pension Statute coming intooperation and has retired on the date of these Regulations coming into effect andwho has contributed to the pension scheme, shall make the minimum contribution of60 installments based on his last drawn salary in full or in installments within a periodof one year.

b) Any contributor who completes the payment of contribution under 6.II(a) above,shall be entitled to the pension as stipulated in Table 02 of Schedule (A) of theseRegulations.

c) In the case of any contributor who is not more than 55 years of age on his nextbirthday at the time of joining this Scheme.

Such contributor shall make the minimum contributor shall made the minimumcontribution as stipulated in Table 01 of Schedule (A) of these Regulations and shallbe entitled to a pension as given in Column IV of that Table.

7. In the case of any contributor who has retired on medical grounds :–

I. if he is more than 50 years of age at his retirement and has made the minimum contributionof 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to a pension on reaching 60 years ofage.

II. if he less than 50 years of age at his retirement and has made a minimum contribution of120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to a pension on reaching 60 years ofage ;

III. provided however, that such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lump sum paymentthe contribution he has so far made together with the relevant interest thereon if he sowishes on the approval of the advisory committee.

IV. the contributor shall be entitled only to receive either a pension under Section 7.I or 7.II ora lump sum payment under Section 7.III

V. as for a contributor who is above the age of 50 years and has not even made the mainimumcontribution of 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension onreaching 60 years of age if he completes the payment of contribution outstanding in fullor in installment within a period of time as required by the Director, the period to make theoutstanding contribution shall be one year from the date of his reaching the age of 60years or from the date on which such payment is prescribed whichever occurs earlier ;

Benefits onmedical grounds

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

VI. as for a contributor who is below the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimumcontribution of 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon on the concurrence ofthe Advisory Committee ;

VII. if no claim is made under 7.V above, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon on the concurrence ofthe Advisory Committee.

08. Any contributor who resigns from the Co-operative service prior to his entitlement to the pensionshall be deemed to have resigned from the Scheme and on a written request made by him to theDirector shall be entitled to receive as a lump sum payment his net contribution and the relevantinterest thereon as determined by the Director with the concurrence of the Advisory Committee.

When any employee is temporary away from the Co-operative Service on no pay leave formerlyapproved for foreign employment, such period on no-pay leave shall not be counted for thepension and no contribution shall be made for such period.

09. When the registration of any Co-operative society or union has been cancelled for the purposeof liquidation, and if the contributor has made contributions up to the date of such cancellation :-

(i) if the contributor is above 50 years of age on the date of cancellation of registration of anysociety or union and had made at last 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled toa pension and reaching 60 years of age ;

(ii) if the contributor is below 50 years of age on the date of cancellation of registration of anysociety or union and has made at least 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitledto a pension on reaching 60 years of age ;

(iii) provided however, that such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lump sum paymentthe contribution he has so far made together with the relevant interest thereon if he sowishes on the advice of the Advisory Committee ;

(iv) the contributor shall be entitled only to receive either a pension under Section 9.I or 9.II ora lump sum payment under Section 9.III ;

(v) as for a contributor who is above the age of 50 years old and has not even made the minimumcontribution of 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension onreaching 60 years of age if he completes the payment of contribution outstanding in full orin installments within a period of time as required by the Director. The period to make theoutstanding shall be one year from the date of his reaching the age of 60 years or from thedate on which such payment is prescribed whichever occurs earlier ;

(vi) as for a contributor who is below the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimumcontributor of 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon with the concurrence ofthe Advisory Committee ;

(vii) if no claim is made under 9.V above such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon with the concurrence ofthe Advisory Committee.

Benefits whenresigned fromservice when onno-pay leave

Benefits tocontributor of asociety or unionof whichregistration iscancelled

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.20196A

10. Every contributor shall be entitled to a death gratuity as the case may be without make anyadditional contribution to the Scheme.

11. In the event of the death of a contributor who possesses a period of service as mentioned inColumn I of the Schedule (B), the dependents of such contributor shall be entitled to receive adeath gratuity as give in the Column II

I. If the deceased contributor is married -

(a) a half of the death gratuity shall be paid to the Widow/Widower and the other halfshall be paid equally to the unemployed, unmarried children.

(b) where there are on unemployed, unmarried, children, the Widow/Widower shall beentitled of the whole gratuity.

(c) if the Widow/Widower of the contributor is not surviving, whole gratuity shall bedevided equally among unemployed, unmarried children.

II. If the deceased contributor is unmarried -

(i) the death gratuity shall be equally divided between the parents of the contributor.

If either of them only is surviving, the death gratuity shall be paid to such parent.

(ii) if both parents are not surviving, the said gratuity shall be divided equally amongunemployed, unmarried siblings of the contributor.

III. Where the minors of the contributor receive the death gratuity, such moneys shall bedeposited in a minor's saving account in the Rural/National Saving Bank/People's Bank/Bank of Ceylon and shall be intimated thereof to the guardians concerned and shall berecorded and the pass Books/Deposit Certificates shall be kept in safe and action shall betaken to release them on demand upon their reaching maturity ;

IV. When irresolvable problems regarding the dependents arise, payment shall be made to thedependent as may be determined by the Director with the concurrence of the AdvisoryCommittee.

12. When the dependents of the contributor become entitled to the death gratuity, Such legal heirshall inform the Director of the death of the contributor within 90 days from the concurrence ofthe death upon which he becomes so entitled to the gratuity.

13. In the event of the death of a contributor, the Director, on the determination of the AdvisoryCommittee, shall pay the net contribution of such contributor together with the interest thereonto the dependents of the contributors as a lump sum payment as stipulated in the Regulation 11.

14. Any contributor who has been forfeited the benefits under Section 14.II of the Statute, maysubmit an appeal to the Director the revalidation of his certificate within 30 days from theintimation of such forfeiture by the Director.

15.I. Any contributor who is dismissed from service of is deemed as having vacated post, shallbe deemed as having resigned from the Scheme and may be entitled to receive only the netcontribution as a lump sum payment as may be determined by the Director with theconcurrence of the Advisory Committee on a written request made by such contributor.

Death gratuity

To receive thedeath gratuity

Death to beinformed of within90 days

Contributor ofdeceasedcontributor

Appeal for therevalidation of thecertificate to bemade within 30days

In the case of acontributor howhas beendismissed or hasvacated post

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

II. Provided however, that if such contributor has been convicted of causing damage to thesociety or of to the union at a legal inquiry or such legal inquiry pending against him, theaforesaid net contribution shall be paid to him if such damage has been completelyreimbursed of if it is established that no such damage has been caused to the society at theconsultation of the inquiry.

16. Any contributor who been reinstated upon been suspended of co-operative service, shall pay thecontribution outstanding in full within a period of time as required by the Director.

The date prior to which such payment to be made in full shall be intimated to the contributor andif such contribute or fails to pay the contribution outstanding before the required date, his policyshall be deemed to have in invalidated.

17.I. In the event of forfeiture of benefits to any contributor under 13.I of the Statute, the Directorshall tender a notice to that effect to such contributor.

II. If any contributor who has been forfeits under 17.I above, wishes to remain in the Scheme,he may make a request to the effect to the Director after settling all the damages caused tothe society by him. The request shall be made to the Director within 03 months from thereceipt of notice under 17.I above.

III. In the event of allowing remaining in the Scheme on a request made under 17.II above, thecontributor shall pay the contribution outstanding in full within a period of time as requiredby the Director. The date prior to which such payment to be made in full shall be intimatedto the contributor and if such contributor fails to pay the contribution outstanding beforethe required date, his policy shall be deemed to have in validated. However the periodrequired by the Director shall not exceed 06 months.

18.I. When any contributor who is above the age of 55 years formally retires from service,before he attains the age of 60 years, such contributor shall be entitled receive a pensionfrom the date on which he attains 60 years of age as give in column IV of the Table 01 ofthe Schedule (A) of these Regulations based on the the number of installment of contributionmade in the time of his retirement.

II. In lieu thereof such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lump sum payment his netcontribution and interest thereon as determined by the Director with the concurrence ofthe Advisory Committee on a written request made to the Director to that effect by thecontributor.

III. Any such contributor shall be entitled only to receive either of the pension under 18.1 orthe lump sum payment under 18.II above.

19. When any contributor who is entitled to a pension under 7.9 and 18 of these Regulations diesbefore the attains of age of 60 years, the death gratuity computed in terms of Schedule (B)hereof and the lump sum payment referred to in regulation 11 shall be to the party which becomesentitled thereto.

20. If it is established at a legal inquiry that any contributor who is entitled to receive a lump sumpayment under these Regulations had caused damages to the society or to union, or such inquiryis pending against him, such lump sum payment shall be paid to him is such damage has beencompletely reimbursed or if it is established that no such damage has been caused by him at theconclusion of the inquiry.

In the case of acontributor howhas beenconvicted at alegal inquiry

In the case of acontributor howhas beenreinstated

In the case of acontributor whoretires before theattains 60 years ofage

In the case ofcontributor whoretires before heattains 60 years ofage and diesbefore he receivesthe pension

Lump sumpayment not to bepaid if has causeddamages to thesociety

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.20198A

21. In the event of the death of pensioner, if the total pension he has received up to his death is lessthan the total amount of contribution me made plus the relevant interest thereon, the balanceamount may be paid as a lump sum payment to the dependents of the deceased pensioner.

22. When any contribution who is entitled to receive the accrued sum or the net contribution as alump sum payment under these Regulations, owes to his employer society or union any sum ofmoney on an agreement entered into with such society or union, such accrued sum or the netcontribution in whole or any part here of may be used with the concurrence of the AdvisoryCommittee to settle to such agreed sum in whole or any part thereof on consideration of arequest to that effect made to the Director by such society or union with the consent of thecontributor.

23. In the event of any problem with regard to the payment of pension/allowances/gratuity to anycontributor in any manner other than what is specified in these regulations, action shall be takenas determined by the Director with the concurrence of the Advisory Board.

24. The Director shall in addition to the policy issued to the contributor under Section 14.1 of theStatute, cause to prepare and use following specimen forms to include necessary particulars forthe purpose of regularization of administration and management of affairs of the Scheme :-

I. Consent Declaration Form ;II. Application to join the Scheme ;III. Authorization letter to deduct monthly contribution from the salary ;IV. Monthly contribution deduction register ;V. Notice on imposition of fines ;VI. Application for Death Gratuity ;VII. Application to withdraw the accrued sum of the net contribution ;VIII. Application to Amalgamate the membership ;IX. Any other forms as may be necessary to implement the Scheme.

25. If any contributor who submitted his application to join the Scheme through his employer societyor the union has subsequently joined any other society or union for permanent employment,such contributor shall intimate thereof to the Director within 30 days from such joining andshall make an application on the specimen form prescribed by the Director to amalgamate themembership in order to continue the policy valid.

26. The director shall cause the accounts of the scheme to be kept as per accepted accountancyprinciples, policies and standards.

27. I. the Director shall prepare an annual estimate in relation to the expenditure involved in theimplementation of functions of this Scheme and shall submit it to the Advisory Committeefor approval.

II. When the annual estimated provisions are not sufficient to meet the expenses, supplementaryestimates shall be prepared and submitted to the Advisory Committee for approval.

28. Quarterly reports of receipts and expenditure shall be prepared at the end of every quarter andthe report so prepared shall be submitted to the Advisory Committee within 30 days from elapseof the quarter to which such report is relevant.

To settle agreedsums from theaccrued sum orthe netcontribution

Specimen forms

Amalgamationof membership

Accounts to bekept

Annual estimatesof expenditure

Quarterly reports

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

29. The provincial Finance Regulation and procurement Committee guidelines shall be strictly adheredto when obtaining facilities and services required for the implementation of the scheme and inthe case of exceeding the limits of the Department, the approval of the Advisory Committeeshall be obtained.

30. The staff required for the operation of the Scheme shall be deployed from those who are employedin the Southern Provincial Department of Co-operative Development at the time concerned andthe recommendation of the Advisory Committee and there upon the approval of the ProvincialPublic Service Commission for the required staff so deployed.

31. The Director shall assign duties to the staff of the Scheme and delegate powers as appropriate.

32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this conditionsthe Sinhala text shall prevail.

Facilities andservices

The staff

Assignment ofduties

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistancy

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.201910A

SCHEDULE (A)

Co-operative Employee's Pension Scheme of the Southern Provincial Council

Table 01 :

The contribution to be paid by the employees joining the Scheme at the age of 18-55 years and the pension entitlement.

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IV

Age on the nextPercentage of theMinimum numberPension entitlementbirthday whenmonthly consolidatedof installmentsfrom the time ofjoining the Schemesalary for thepayableretirement oncontribution payablereaching 60 years ofage until the death aspercentage of themonthly consolidatedsalary last drawnyearsat retirement

195504802054927921548078225 468772354567623544475245432742554207326540872275396712853847029537269305360683153486732533666335321653553126436530063375288623852766139526460405252594152405842522857435216564452045545519254465180534751685248515651495144505051324951512048

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

52510847535964654584455557244

SCHEDULE (A) (Contd.)

Co-operative Employee's Pension Scheme of the Southern Provincial Council

Table 01 :

The contribution to be paid by the employees joining the Scheme at the age of 18-55 years and the pension entitlement.

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IV

Age on the nextPercentage of theMinimum numberPension entitlementbirthday whenmonthly consolidatedof installmentsfrom the time ofjoining the Schemesalary for thepayableretirement oncontribution payablereaching 60 years ofage until the death aspercentage of themonthly consolidatedsalary last drawnyearsat retirement

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.201912A

SCHEDULE (A) (Contd.)

Co-operative Employee's Pension Scheme of the Southern Provincial Council

Table 02 :

The contribution to be paid by the employees joining the Scheme at the age of 55-60 years and the pension entitlement.

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIColumn IVColumn V

Age on the nextPercentage of theMinimum numberPension entitlementThe date ofbirthday whenmonthly consolidatedof installmentsfrom the time ofbecomingjoining the Schemesalary for thepayableretirement onentitled to thecontribution payablereaching 60 years ofpensionage until the death aspercentage of themonthly consolidatedsalary last drawnyearsat retirement

56-5956040The date ofreaching 60 years ofage or the date ofcompletion ofpayment of 60minimumcontributioninstallments,whichever occursearly

6056040The date thatcompletes theelapse of one yearfrom thecompletion ofpayment of 60minimumcontributioninstallments

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.06.2019

SCHEDULE (B)

Gratuity paid at death

Column IColumn II

Period of service since joining the schemeDeath gratuity entitlementRs. cts.

More than 0-Less than 510,000.00More than 5- Less than 1015,000.00

More than 10-Less than 1520,000.00

More than 15-Less than 2025,000.00

More than 20-Less than 2530,000.00

More than 25-Less than 3035,000.00

More than 3040,000.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.