==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

w;s úfYI

wxl 1888$46 - 2014 fkdjeïn¾ ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'11'14No. 1888/46 - FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2014

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Announcement made under Section 2 of Local Government Authorities (Standard by laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952read with Section 2 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989

THE under mentioned draft by laws formulated by Chief Minister and Minister in purview of the subject of Local Governmentof Western Province as per Section 2 of Local Government Authorities (Standard by laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 read withSection 02 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 shall hereby be published according to theprovisions further stated in the same Section.

The Urban Councils have been devolved with power under Section 157 of Urban Councils Ordinance of Authority255, read with Section 153 of the same Ordinance to formulate by laws that contain the provisions included in the said draftby laws and the said draft by laws, as per above stated provisions of Section 2(3) of the Local Government Authorities(Standard By laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 read with Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12of 1989 will receive the authority for acceptance by Pradeshiya Sabha of Western Province subsequent to adoption byWestern Province Provincial Council and upon publishing a Gazette notification to the effect of such adoption.

PRASANNA RANATHUNGA,Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance andPlanning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local Government andProvincial Administration, Manpower and Employment,Engineering Services and Information of theWestern Province Provincial Council.

On the 03rd November, 2014,Chief Ministry of the Western Province Provincial Council,Shrawasthi Mandiraya,Colombo 07.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.20142A

BY-LAW RELATING TO REGULARIZATION OF DECORATIONS

1. This by-law shall be enforced for the regularization and control of decorations carried out within the Urban Councilarea of authority and levying charges on such.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Regularization of Decorations within the Urban Council area ofauthority.

3. This by-law will be enforced to regularize and control decorations carried out by the public in streets located withinthe Urban Council area of authority.

4. No person shall hereinafter carry out decorations in streets and public places located in the Urban Council area ofauthority without a permit issued by the Chairman of the Urban Council or the officer authorized by him.

5. Where a permit is intended to be obtained for particular decorative purpose, an application made as per Schedule Iof this by-law shall be forwarded to the Urban Council 48 hours prior to the carrying out of the said decoration.

6. Subsequent to forwarding of an application, a permit to carry out decorations will be issued by the Chairmanconforming to the provisions of this by-law.

7. Even under a permit, polythene shall no occasion be used for whatever decorating purposes.

8. The charges to be levied on every permit under this by-law shall be the charges imposed through a resolutionpassed at the Council from time to time.

(1) Every person applying for every decorating purpose under this shall deposit at the Council a depositamount as decided by the Council for such purpose.

(2) Where the decorations are not removed by a permit holder within 24 hours of the date specified in the permitfor removal of decorations, it is lawful for the Council to remove the said decorations and to deduct theexpense borne for such removal from the relevant deposit amount deposited in Council and pay to thedepositor any remaining amount from the said deposit, if there is any.

9. Provisions stipulated in by-law 8 shall not be relevant to funeral decorations.

10. Any decoration carried out under this by-law shall not be carried on in a manner covering traffic signal boards, areamaps and name boards.

11. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255).

12. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;

“Council” means the Urban Council

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

“A Decoration” means a temporary preparation for certain incident or task and such being the sole objective of andmade with artificial or natural material to represent the said incident or task.

3AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

SCHEDULE I

APPLICATION

1. Name of the street or public place to be decorated :-

2. Nature of the decoration :-

3. Period of decoration duration :-

4. Purpose of decoration :-

5. Date decorations will be removed :-

6. How will the decoration waste be disposed ?

I agree to exhibit decorations in conformation to accepted regulations of the Urban Council and I am well aware thatcontravention of the relevant by-law or certain section of it shall be a punishable offence.

.................................................................Date :-(Signature of applicant)

BY-LAWS RELATING TO BAKERIES

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control of bakeries conducted within the Urban Councilarea of authority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Bakeries within the Urban Council area of authority.

3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular functions has been obtained no person shallmaintain a bakery within the area of Authority of the Urban Council area of authority.

4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the yearfor which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-laws in this part.

5. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part are fulfilled, the Chairman shall not issue a license to anyBakery -

(I) The conditions in this part shall have been fulfilled irrespective of the medium in which heat is obtained forfood produced in the Bakery -

(i) The Bakery shall be in proper repaired condition ;

(ii) Every room in the Bakery shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of theopened windows shall not be less than one fifteenth of the area of the floor of the room ;

(iii) Every room shall have ceilings fixed and the ceiling shall have been painted in white ;

(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with polished cement or tiled ;

13 — PG 2247

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.20144A

(v) While the room in which the oven of the Bakery is located shall be at least in a height of 3 meters fromthe ground level of the room, it shall be built in bricks or cement blocks or Cabook blocks with bothsides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints ;

(vi) Every room in the Bakery other than the room where the oven is located shall be in a height of at least2.75 Meters from the floor level to the ceiling level, and they shall be built in bricks or cement blocksor Cabook blocks or Aluminium or timber with both sides of the walls being plastered and applied withpaints ;

(vii) All fittings in the Bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints ; while the roof shall havebeen built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at least 1.8 meters above the floor level andthe reservation for the eaves shall be at least 1 meter in width ;

(viii) Arrangements shall have been made to use potable water for production purposes ;

(ix) While a supply of safe water shall have been provided through pipes to every room using water in theproduction process, action shall have been taken to provide a drainage system sufficient to allow theflow of waste water ;

(x) Waste water disposed of shall be allowed to flow into a suction pit ;

(xi) Waste disposal programme shall have been put in place in the manner prescribed in this By-law.

(II) Where the Bakery requesting a licence is one that uses firewood,

(i) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the Bakery shall have been built at a height of at least7.5 meters above the ground level ;

(ii) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smoothly where thejoints shall have been joined leaving no spaces between the joints. Otherwise they shall b coveredwith stainless metal sheets with no joints ;

(iii) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removed from the oven of theBakery shall be supplied ;

(iv) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime ;

(v) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instruments shallhave been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the Bakery.

(III) Where the Bakery requesting a licence is one that uses electricity —

(i) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall be in a safe condition, tripswitches functioning automatically during high voltage and leaks in electricity shall have been fixed ;

(ii) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premises shall be drawn throughpipes or boxes without leakages of electricity, there shall not be ends of electric cables open to theoutside ;

(iii) Ordinary firefighting equipment and electric fire extinguishers shall have been provided and electriccables of electric circuits shall be drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity, thereshall not be ends of electric cables open to the outside ;

5AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

6. All spaces prescribed in By-law, to have been applied with paints shall be no applied with paints at least once a year.

7. The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once every day.

8. The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept clean and in very good condition.

9. Unless the date of expiry of flour and other materials used in the manufacture of bakery products are at a sufficientdate in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacturue of bakery products at any time.

10.(i) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of an infections, contagious or skin disease has notelaped, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent paast or had beenrecently nurshing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody orlet anybody else engage in any licensed pemises or an an assistant of any person engaged at any licensedpremises.

(ii) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employanybody else in any form of work at any licensed premises.

(iii) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test atleast once a year.

11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and toensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the licensed premises andalso to ensure that at every time they engage in work at the bakery that they have cleaned themselves well havingwashed their bodies prior to such engagement at the bakery.

12. (I) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are reused, action shall be taken to categorizethe waste material under the categories —

(i) bio degradable waste ;(ii) glass ;(iii) paper or paper based materials ;(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by-products or other partsproduced in the production line ;(vii) dangerous waste ;

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for thatpurpose.

13. Water not suitable for human consumption shall not be used for any bakery production.

14. While a separate room exclusively used for the storage of flour and other materials used in the bakery shall bemaintained it shall be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of flies or other insects and rats.

15. When storing flour in the store room mentioned in By-law No. 14 a rack made of timber on a stand at a height of 20centimetres from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack shall have been finished so as to facilitate itsmovement from place to place when empty. Moreover, while the said rack shall have been covered so as to preventrats and other kinds of insects remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23 centimetres awayfrom the wall.

16. It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned in By-law No. 15 are taken out and cleaned at least twicea month.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.20146A

17. While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the By-law in this part, action shall betaken not to keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for the functions of thebakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of the bakery shall not be included to this.

18. While the employees of the factory shall be allocated lavatories in the proportion of at least one for each group often employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside for males and females.

19. Where the water utilized for bakery production is stored in an underground tank, action shall be taken not to locatea suction pit, or fertilizer pit or ash pit less than 18 meters away from such tank.

20. All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and soap orliquid soap.

21. No person shall smoke, chew betel or chew any other material or partake of food inside the bakery except in a placespecifically allocated to such task.

22. It shall be the duty of the licesee to put in place a scale with standard weight or any other type of standard scale ata clearly visible place in all the premises licesed under the provisions of the By-laws in this part and to take actionto weight a the request of any customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.

23. In the event of the delivery of bakery products of any bakery by the licensee himself it shall be the duty of thelicensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of waste material or water.

24. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an AuthorizedOfficer shall mean any occasion when production is carried out.

25. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of bakery product keptfor sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any bakery, no licensee shall resist of prevent suchpurchase.

26. In the event of the premises where bakery products are produced is carried on under a licence issued under the By-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 5 orcontravenes the provisions of any By-law of the by-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issuea notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to theprescribed position before a specified date.

27. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No. 26 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice beforethe date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing the Chairmanshall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall notbe more than fourteen days.

28. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No. 27 fails to act in accordance with the manner setout in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman tocancel the licence issued to that premises.

29. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

7AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

30. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“Council” means the Urban Council

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

“Urban Council area of authority” means the area of in which the Urban Council has been established.

“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized for specific duty by the Chairman of the Urban Council for aspecific time period.

BY-LAWS RELATING TO OFFENSIVE TRADES, DANGEROUS TRADES ANDDANGEROUS AND OFFENSIVE TRADES

1. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control of Offensive Trades, DangerousTrades and Dangerous and Offensive Trades carried on within the Urban Council area of authority.

2. These by-laws shall be cited as “By-law Relating to Offensive Trades, Dangerous Trades and Dangerous andOffensive Trades within the Urban Council area of authority”.

3. No person other than a holder of a licence issued by the Chairman of Urban Council for the purpose shall carry onany offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dagerous trade within the Urban Council area of authority.

4. Every licence issued under the provisions of these By-laws shall be valid up to 31st of December of the year forwhch it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

5. In the event of there being a permanent building used as the business premises to conduct the said business, it shallbe a building constructed as per a plan approved by Chairman and unless the said building complies to theconditions set out below, no person shall receive a right to conduct a business pertaining to any offensive trade,dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade.

(1) The premise shall have been properly maintained in good repair and shall have good ventilation and lightwhile every room shall have been fixed with windows that could be opened and the area of the openwindows shall not be less than one fifteenth of the floor area of the room ;

(2) While the minimum height of the walls of all the rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters, the walls shall havebeen plastered with mortar and the inside applied with paints in the events of them being built with bricks,granite, cement blocks or cabook blocks. Insides of the walls shall be plastered in cement at least up to 2Meters from floor level while the remaining part shall be applied with lime mixed plaster and painted ;

(3) the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2 Meters from the floor level ;

(4) the roof shall have been built using solid materials ;

(5) All the surfaces of timber work shall be applied with oil paints and or lime paints ;

(6) The whole floor space shall be finished off with cement ;

(7) The premises shall be constructed with sufficient water subsiding facility ;

(8) The premises shall be provided with sanitary dust bins and adequate toilet facilities.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.20148A

6. Every licence holder shall store all materials necessary for carrying on the trade in such a manner that no offensiveodours will emanate from them or create any nuisance.

7. Every licence holder when taking away things that can cause offensive odours or nuisances from the licensedpremises along public thoroghfares shall take them in closed non-absorbet vessels to prevent odours or nuisances.

8. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated ina production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppressive resultswhen they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device.

9. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conducted and maintainthem properly and wash them daily.

10. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them in goodrepair and shall cause them to be washed daily.

11. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business.

12. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities cleanly.

13. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his business premises,trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop-waste and by-products unless they are used in businessactivities further and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council.

14. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar materials afteremptying them to prevent stinking.

15. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be pollutedby causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river,stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them, or in some otherway.

16. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Urban Council specially authorized by the Chairman for therelevant purpose to enter premises where an offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade iscarried on during official hours and to inspect the premises. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or the personin charge of the premises to allow such inspections.

17. Through such an inspection where a licensed premises is found to be non-complying to the provisions of these Bylaws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish thenecessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period. It shall be theduty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action accordingly, theChairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.

18. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, toissue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accodance with these By-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so alongwith the reasonsfor his refusal.

19. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages ofSinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the licence at aconspicuous place in the licence holding premises.

20. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may be.In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premises. It shall notbe required to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice.

9AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

21. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltyregulated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255) of Urban Councils Ordinance.

22. In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires,

“Council” means the Urban Council ;

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council ;

“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established ;

“An authorized officer of Urban Council” means the officer/officers authorized by the Chairman to implement thisby-law ;

“Licensee” means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws ;

“Person” includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated ;

“Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other personassigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.

SCHEDULE I

Offensive Trades

1. Manufacturing and storing for sale Fertilizer or Chemical Fertilizer.2. Curing hides.3. Keeping hides for sale.4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)5. Conducting a studio6. Running a veterinary clinic7. Storing of perishable foods for selling8. Keeping dry fish, salted fish or Jadi exceeding 150 Kgs9. Making charcoal from coconut shells or timber, or storing charcoal10. Maintaining a place for processing or storing tobacco.11. Manufacturing animal food or maintaining animal food storage.12. Manufacturing poonac or storing poonac more than 200 Kgs.13. Manufacuring soaps.14. Grinding or storing animal bones15. Keeping new metals or old metals stored16. Keeping a place for storing debris of metal17. Manufacturing or storing of furniture18. Manufacturing cane products19. Running a carpentry workshop20. Manufacturing syrups or fruit drinks21. Manufacturing of sweet-meats22. Soaking or curing coconut husks23. Manufacturing of brushes (Other than both brushes)24. Manufacturing tooth brushes25. Collecting toddy26. Manufacturing or storing vineger

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201410A

27. Maintaining a mechanically or manually operated timber sawing place28. Manufacture of paints, varnish or distemper or storing them more than 100 Liters29. Manufacture of soda30. Manufacture of leather products31. Packing in tins fruits, fish or other varieties of food32. Maintaining a grinding place for grinding chilies, coffee, grains, pules, spices or flour33. Manufacture of candles34. Manufacture ofcamphor35. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink36. Manufacture of washing blue37. Manufacture of resin38. Manufacture of perfumes and maintining a storing place for such39. Manufacture of school-chalks40. Maintaining a place for storing tyres or tubes more than 50 in number41. Retreading of tyres42. Maintaining a place for vulcanizing tyre tubes43. Maintaining a cement storage for storing more than 1000 kgs44. Manufacture of cement and asbestos based products45. Manufacture of plastic items46. Manufacture of textiles by power loom47. Cleaning of gunnies used for packing fertilizer, lime, flour or similar materials48. Manufacturing cement blocks mechanically49. Storage of grains or pulses more than 250 Kgs.

SCHEDULE II

Dangerous Trades

1. Storing more than 750 Kg of sugar, flour or salt for wholesale2. Ready-made apparel production3. Maintaining a printing press4. Maintaining a hen-pen for more than 100 hens5. Maintaining a herd or pen for more than 10 goats or pigs6. Storing bricks or roofing tiles7. Maintaining a firewood storage8. Mechanical or manual excavation or crushing of granite9. Soft drink manufacturing or storing more than 100 bottles of soft drinks10. Ice-cream production11. Coconut oil manufacturing or storing more than 300 Liters12. Matchbox manufacturing or storing more than 100 dozens of match boxes13. Coir or other fiber based products or storing such products14. Storing used apparel15. Jewellery production or repair16. Mechanically operated timber sawing17. Maintaining factories that use machines18. Storing empty sacks or empty bottles19. Maintaining a place for motor cycle or bicycle repair20. Storing used paper or newspapers21. Maintaining a place for sprayed painting22. Storing or manufacturing fireworks or crackers23. Storing other vegetable oil except coconut oil more than 50 Liters24. Storing frozen meat or fish25. Storing timber

11AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

SCHEDULE III

Offensive and Dangerous Trades

1. Processing cinnamon, cardamom or varieties of bristles using chemicals2. Dry cleaning or dyeing clothes3. Fabric printing or fabric dying4. Maintaining a place for electroplating5. Incineration for coral or limestones, processing and storing slaked lime6. Maintainning a place for charging or repairing batteries7. Maintaining a place for repairing motor vehicles8. Maintaining a place for servicing motor vehicles9. Running a foundary10. Running a workshop for manufacture of tin products11. Maintaining a gas cylinder storing place12. Producing Ayurvedic or indigenous medicine or mixing such medicine13. Storing glassware or glass panels14. Maintaining a factory related to plastic or fiber products15. Storing tea leaves more than 150 Kg16. Maintaining a place for welding17. Maintaining a lathe machine workshop18. Maintaining a place for storage of petrol, diesel, oil or othern petroleum based oil19. Fatilizer production or storing20. Servicing or repairing air conditioners, refrigerators or freezers21. Maintaining electrical workshop or electrical equipment manufacturing or repairing place22. Maintaining a milk freezing center

BY-LAW RELATING TO HOTELS AND LODGES

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and contol hotels and lodgings located within the PradeshiyaSabha area of authority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Hotels and Lodges located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area ofauthority.

3. No person shall maintain a hotel or lodge (hereinafter referred to as “place”) within the Pradeshiya Sabha area ofauthority unless he is in possession of a valid license issued by the Chairman for the said purpose.

4. Every license issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall terminate on 31st of December of the year forwhich it was issued.

5. Permanent constructions applied for obtaining a license shall be constructions constructed according to a planapproved by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha.

6. The Chairman shall not issue a license to any hotel or lodge unless the conditions stated below in this by-law havestrictly been followed.

(1) The place shall be maintained in a proper repaired condition.

(2) The walls of rooms in the place shall be of height not less than 2.5 Meters whereas those walls should beconstructed in brick, cement blocks or Cabook blocks and plastered on both sides with paint applied.However, except the kitchen, other rooms constructed by wood or certain metal sheets with paint applied onit shall consider to be in compliance to this regulation.14 — PG 2247

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201412A

(3) Every room of the place should be fixed with a ceiling and the said ceiling should be at a height not less than2.5 Meters from floor level.

(4) Every room should have windows fixed enabling them to be opened to outside and when the windows ofeach room is opened, the extent of square feet of those window frames should not be less than the squarefeet extent of the floor of the relevant room.

(5) The roof shall be made of some soild material.

(6) The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall beleast 1.5 meters in width.

(7) The floor of every room shall be cement-plastered and polished or tiled.

(8) Waste bins shall be kept to collect waste generated within the place and all the waste bins should have lidsto keep them well covered from preventing files or other insects gaining access to them.

(9) In order to dispose the waste generated within the place, necessary provisions should have been allocatedto be able to conform to the regulations enforced under this by-law.

(10) Every table used within the place shall

(i) have polished and painted legs in case of wooden tables wherein the table-top should be covered inpolished, water resistant material or non-corrosive non-jointed metal sheets.

(ii) have painted legs in case of the table is made of iron or steel or other metal wherein the table-topshould be covered in polished water resistant material or non-corrosive and non-jointed metal sheet.

(11) A certificate of standard issued by the National Water Supplies and Drainage Board certifying that the waterused in the place is suitable for human consumption whereupon the said certificate of standard should atleast be obtained every six months. If the water supplied by the National Water Supplies and Drainage Boardis used in the place, it shall be considered that the said certificate of standard has already been received.

(12) If the water used for activities of the place is kept stored, sufficient provisions should be allocated to preventsuch water from getting polluted.

(13) A separate place for the purpose of washing utensils used by the clients should be maintained at the place.

(14) Separate toilets and urinals for males and females should be constructed providing such facilities to theclients and staff to a ratio of at least one toilet or utinal per every 10 persons.

(15) The walls of every toilet or urinal shall be constructed by bricks, cement blocks or Cabook blocks or non-corrosive metal sheets and have floors plastered and polished in cement or tiled and in case of walls beingconstructed in non-corrosive metal sheets, such walls should have painted surfaces.

(16) Sufficient number of bathrooms should be constructed for the use of staff employed in the place and theregulations enforced in above sub paragraph (15) should also be relevant to the said bathroom floors andwalls.

(17) Within the part allocated for clients’ use in the place, wash basins made of non-corrosive metal sheets orpolished ceramic or made in brick or cement blocks and tiled, should be fixed for clients’ use to wash theirhands.

13AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

(18) Proper drainage system to allow unobstructed flow of waste water disposed after use in any part of the placeshould be constructed.

(19) Where the Pradeshiya Sabha maintains a drainage system, the waste water disposed from the place may bereleased to the said drainage system as the Pradeshiya Sabha regulations and in the absence of such, saidwaste water should cause to be flow into a pit to absorb such waste water.

(20) Fire extinguishing equipment should be made available at the place and a fire protection certificate relevantto the place should be obtained.

(21) In the rooms allocated for clients and employees to sleep in within the place, the space allocated for sleepingby one person shall not be less than 4 Meters.

7. The license holding place shall at least be swept twice a day and waste water flowing drains shall be cleaned twicea day and washed out with water.

8. Except in rooms specified allocated as sleeping rooms, in the license holding place no other room shall be allocatedto be slept by whoever person.

9. Name, address sna identity card number of each person obtaining room facilities in the licensed place shall berecorded in a register and where the said register is requested by the Chairman, authorized officer or certain PoliceOfficer for inspection, the licensee’s task is to allow such inspection.

10. Every room of license holding place, subsequent to be used by one client, shall not be handed over to the use ofanother client unless the bed sheets, pillow covers, blankets, towels and other used clothes in that room are washedand cleaned. Prior to handing over the said room to the client who arrived later on, the windows of the said roomshall be kept completely opened for minimum of 04 hours.

11. In any bedroom, food preparing place or in a part allocated for food consumption within the license holding place,no animal whatsoever shall be kept.

12. The toilets and urinals of the license holding place shall be cleaned and sprinkled with antiseptics twice a dayminimum and be kept odourless. However, cleaning the toilets of a particular room occupied by clients once a dayshall be considered as sufficient.

13. All the wares, utensils and equipment used for preparation of food, containing food put on display for sellingpurpose and utensils used by clients at the license holding place shall be washed in clean water priro to their use ancausing them to be cleaned after use shall be the responsibility of the license holder.

14. All the waste collected in each place of the license holding place shoudl be categorized as specified in Section 16 ofthis by-law and cause to be immediately disposed to a bin made of impenetrable material and take measures toremove the said waste from that place at least once or where required, more than once taking care to keep those binswell covered except occasions where waste is put into those bins and removal of waste from the said bins.

15. In no occasion shall the waste disposed from the license holding place be scattered on the ground of the place orwithin the compound of the place.

16. (1) Unless all the waste generated within a license holding place is re-used, the license holder bears the responsibilityof causing such waste to be categorized under

(i) Bio-degradable waste ;(ii) Glass ;(iii) Paper or paper related materials ;

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201414A

(iv) Polythene and plastic or polythene and plastic related materials ;(v) Iron or other metal materials or iron and other metal parts ;(vi) Parts remaining from other raw materials used for production or by-product materials or parts received in theproduction process ;(vii) Dangerous waste ;

and causing each category of waste to be put into separate bins or tanks allocated for the disposing of eachmaterials.

(2) Unless the waste categorized and collected in bins or tanks as stated in above Paragraph (1) is disposed underthe waste disposal management system of the Pradeshiya Sabha, it shall be disposed finally in a manner ordered bythe Chairman.

17. Every license holding place should be kept free from rats, flies, or other insects whereas the license holder isresponsible for taking action to make provisions to prevent materials used for food preparation of the said place andcooked food and beverages from being polluted by the said creatures.

18. While serving food to clients, food shall not be touched by hand and for serving food, a spoon, fork or other suchequipment shall be used.

19. (1) A person suffering from any infections, contagious or skin disease or had contacted such a disease in the recentpast or a person who has engaged in taking care of such person recently, unless the contagious or incubation periodof the said disease has expired, shall not engage or cause to be engaged in any type of work at a whatever licenseholding place or as an assistance to a person working thereof or let engage in such work.

(2) Unless dressed in clean clothes washed well, no person shall engage in whatever work at a licensed place orcause to be engaged in such work.

(3) The license holder is responsible for the referring of all the employees deployed in such licensed place at leastonce in every year for medical examination.

20. For every employee engaged in the preparation of food or beverages at the license holding place, aprons should beprovided and the license holder’s task is to ensure that those aprons are worn by the said employees every time theyengage in work.

21. Every employee serving in the license holding place should be provided with clean water, clean towels, and brushesto clean nails, soap or liquid soap.

22. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to enter a license holding place to inspect whether theplace is maintained according to by-law regulations.

23. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or his authorized officer to pay for a sample prepared at certain license holdingplace or kept on sale in such place during such occasion no license holder shall reject or obstruct such purchasing.

24. The location of a hotel issed with a license under this by-law terminates its existence in conformation to whateverregulation stated in Section 6 of this by-law, or found contrary to regulatins of other by-laws of this part, a noticeordering the said license holder to take all necessary measures to restore the said place to be in conformation tothose by-laws prior to certain specified date shall be served to the said license holder by the Chairman.

25. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contraventin is continued even furtherand being convincted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written noticedrawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximumof the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty statedunder Sub-section (2) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

15AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

26. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;

“Sabha” means the Pradeshiya Sabha

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority” means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.

BY-LAW RELATING TO CREMATORIUMS

1. This by-law is enforced to regularize the cremation of corpses in every crematorium controlled under Urban Council,levying charges for cremations and to regularize crematorium administration.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Crematoriums within the Urban Council area of Authority.

3. A corpse shall not be cremated in a crematorium functioning under the control of the Council without a pass issuedby the Chairman or an officer authorized in writing by him (hereinfater referred to as “Authorized Officer”).

4. By a person who expects to obtain a pass stipulated under the third by-law (hereinafter referred to as “applicant”)shall, forward to the Chairman or his authorized officer an application prepared in accordance with Schedule “a”along with the documents mentioned below.

(i) A document confirming the connection between the deceased and the applicant, applicant’s birth certificateor deceased person’s birth certificate or applicant’s marriage certificate or a certificate issued by the GramaNiladhari of the Grama Seva Division in which the deceased person was residing is sufficient therein.

(ii) If an autopsy was carried out under the Criminal Procedure Code in relaton to the death of the persondemised, the certificate issued under Paragraph 41(e) of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act by theCoroner or the Magistrate who carried out the autopsy allowing permission to cremate the corpse ; or in caseof a corps resulting from a still birth, the certificate issued under Paragraph 43(b) of the Registration of Birthsand Deaths Act.

5. Subsequent to handing over the completed application to the Chairman or authorized officer, it shall be documentedin the order it was received.

6. If the corpse is accepted to be cremated, having charged the relevant fee, the pass shall be issued to the applicant.The time to hand over the corpse to the person in charge of the crematorium shall be stated in the pass.

7. If the corpse is not accepted for cremation, the authorized officer shall, immediately and as the situation requires,inform in writing to the applicant about the reasons for such rejection.

8. Within the time period of 7.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. every day, corpses can be accepted for cremation.

9. The applicant shall hand over the corpse to the person in charge of the crematorium at the time indicated in the passor 30 minutes immediately prior to that time. The Urban Council shall not be held responsible for difficulties or lossesincurred by late handover of corpses.

10. In every crematorium, details pertaining to each corpse cremated, such as the name of the applicant and address,National Identity card number, name of the person deceased, the address of the place in which he was residing priorto demise, the relationship between the applicant and the deceased, date and time of cremation, number and date ofthe pass, shall be documented by the person in charge of the cermatorium.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201416A

11. Incinerated ash shall be collected by the representative before a lapse of 72 hours subsequent to the cremation ofthe corpse. However, by a request forwarded by the applicant to the Chairman or authorized officer, the time periodfor keeping incinerated ash in custody of the person in charge of the crematorium shall be extended. The Chairmanor the authorized officer shall have power to dispose incinerated ash that is not collected within the specific period.

12. Entering the premises of the crematorium without obtaining permission from the crematorium-in-charge or Chairmanshall be an offense. Nevertheless, for a person or persons accompanying a pass holder for the purpose of crematinga corpse shall be considered as provided with permission to enter the crematorium for that purpose.

13. Behaving in a manner violating peace within the crematorium premises or causing damage to the property of thecrematorium premises or obstructing the official duties of the crematorium-in-charge or his assistants or carryingout decorations with the crematorium premises shall be an offense.

14. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is demed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

15.(1) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to maintain the crematoriums in proper condition enabling cremation ofcorpses.

(2) If a crematorium is closed down for a certain period of time for the purpose of maintenance or renovation, itshall be the duty of the Chairman to display the announcement regarding such closure at a conspicuous placeat the crematorium and at an office where passes are issued to enter the crematorium.

16.(1) Charges levied for the cremation of corposes can be imposed by time to time through a resolution passed atthe Urban Council. Charges imposed thus may be amended by the Urban Council in instances considered asrequired by the Urban Council.

(2) The charges imposed or amended by Paragraph (1) above, shall be announced by a Gazette notification.

17. Where the crematorium malfunctions while it is being used due to a mechanical error, the power relating to decision-making in such occasion lies with the Chairman and such matter shall at no occasion be made use to taking an actionagainst either the Urban Council or Chairman by the applicant.

18. Unless other meaning is required in relation to the text ;

“Council” means the Urban Council

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

“Crematorium-in-charge” means a person appointed to serve as the in-charge of a crematorium controlled underthe Urban Council.

“Corpse” means a corpse of a human being, or part thereof or a corpse resulting from a still child birth.

17AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

SCHEDULE “a”

APPLICATION TO CREMATE THE CORPSE AT THE ........................................... CREMATORIUM

1. Full Name of the Applicant :Address :National Identity Card No. :Grama Seva Division :

2. Name of the person deceased :Address she / he was residing in :Grama Seva Division :National Identity Card No. :

3. Applicant’s relationship to the deceased :

4. Number and Date of the Death Certificate :

5. Name and Address of the Secretary registering the death :

6. Reason for death :

7. If an autopsy was conducted in relation to the death, the date and time of autopsy :

8. Name and Designation of the Inspection Officer :

9. Conclusion of the Inspection Officer :

10. Whether permission be allowed for the body to be cremated :

11. Date and time required for cremation :(According to the order of preference)

(i) .......................................... (ii) ..........................................(iii) ..........................................

It is hereby declared that all the above mentioned details are accurate and true. Relevant copies have been attached.

...................................................Signature of the Applicant and Date.For office use only

1. Issuance of the pass is approved. Due to following reasons issuance of a pass is rejected.

................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

...................................................Date : ...........................Signature Chairman/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201418A

Chairman / Authorized Officer

1. Recorded in the Register

Rs. .......................................... was charged by the Receipt No. ................................... Dated .................................

2. The pass is forwarded for placement of the signature.

3. The letter containng reasons for the rejection of the request is forwarded for signature.

...................................................Date : ...........................Signature of the Officer in Charge.

BY-LAWS RELATING TO EATING HOUSES

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the maintenance of eating houses within theUrban Council area of authority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Eating Houses within the Urban Council area of Authority.

3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained no person shallmaintain an eating house within the area of authority of the Urban Council.

4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the yearfor which it had been issued unless it was cancelled earlier.

5. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a license to anyeating house :-

(1) All permanent constructions related to an eating house shall be constructed according to a plan approvedby the Chairman.

(2) The premises shall be maintained in proper repaired condition.

(3) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 Meters, both sides of the wallsshall have been plastered with mortor and applied with paints, in the event of their being built in solidmaterials.

(4) While every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a height of not less than 2.5Meters from the ground level.

(5) Every room shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of the opened windows shallnot be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room. However, where any room is air conditioned,this provision may not be applied in the same manner.

(6) The roof shall be made of some solid material.

(7) The floor of the eating house shall be plastered in cement and polished or tiled.

(8) While waste bins shall be placed to collect waste generated in the eating house premises and they shall havelids to keep them closed so as to prevent entry of flies or other kinds of insects.

19AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

(9) In order to dispose the waste generated within the earting house premises, necessary provisions shouldhave been allocated to be able to take actions stated hereinafter under this by law.

(10) All furniture used within the premises shall be of proper finish and table and chairs should be made in woodor metal and polished with table tops covered in glass pane.

(11) A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used by the customers.

(12) Separate lavatories and urinals for males and females should be constructed providing such facilities to theclients and staff sufficienty.

(13) In the section of the premises assigned for the use of the customers wash basins made of stainless metal orpolished ceramic clay and polilshed or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled, should be made availableincluding water facilities.

(14) Proper drainage system to allow unobstructed flow of waste water disposed after use in any part of the placeshould be constructed. In no occasion shall the drains be opened to a place of common access.

(15) Sufficient fire extinguishing equipment should be made available at the place.

(16) The place where tea or coffee is prepared in the premses shall be covered in non-corrosive metal sheet orapplied with tiles or covered in other water resistant material.

6. Keeping the eating house and all the premises attached to it in proper condition with paint applied would be thelicense holder’s task.

7. The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day and the drains carrying waste water shall becleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.

8. Animals such as dogs or cats shall not be reared as pets within the eating house premises.

9. The lavatories and urinals at the eating house premises shall be cleaned and sprinkled with antiseptics twice a dayminimum and be kept odourless.

10. For containing food or handling of food items within the eating house, proper utensils should be used and they shallbe kept in good clean condition.

11.(a) All the waste generated within the eating house premises shall be separated as follows and collected separatelyin bins

(i) Bio-degradable waste ;

(ii) Glass ;

(iii) Paper or paper related materials ;

(iv) Polythene and plastic or polythene and plastic related materials ;

(v) Iron or other metal materials or iron and other metal parts ;

(b) waste collected within the eating house premises as per methods stated in above sub section shall be sent forthe final disposal in accordance to a waste management programme currently in operation within that area ofauthority.

15 — PG 2247

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201420A

12.(a) A person suffering from any infectious, contagious or skin disease or had contacted such a disease in therecent past or a person who has engaged in taking care of such person recently, unless the contagious orincubation period of the said disease has expired, shall not engage or cause to be engaged in any type of workat a whatever eating house premises or as an assistance to a person working thereof or let engage in suchwork.

(b) Unless dressed in clean clothes washed well, no person shall engage in whatever work at a eating housepremises or cause to be engaged in such work.

(c) The license holder is responsible for the referring of all the employees deployed in such licensed place at leastonce in every for medical examination.

13. For every employee engaged in the preparation of food or beverages at the license holding place, aprons should beprovided and the license holder’s task is to ensure that those aprons are worn by the said employees every time theyengage in work.

14. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food prepared withinthe eating house premises or kept for sale in the premises, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.

15. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to enter a license holding place to inspect whether theplace is maintained according to by-law regulations and the license holder or person in charge of the place shallallow such inspection while providing their full support.

16. Where an eating house is constructed in a manner contravening the provisions of this by-law and where theChairman has served a notice of such contravention, in the event of not taking accurate measures during the timeperiod allotted for amendment of the said fault, it is lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued.

17. Maintaining an eating house without a license under this by-law deemed to be an offence and subsequent to beingconvicted for such offence by a Magistrate Court, the offender shall be subjected to a penalty stated under Section153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

18. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by law —

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Urban Council ;

“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized for specific or common duty by the Chairman.

BY-LAW RELATING TO THE SALE OF FISH

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the sale of fish within the Urban Council area ofauthority and charges levied on such services.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Sale of Fish within the Urban Council area of Authority.

3. No person within the Urban Council area of authority shall use any premises for the purpose of selling fish withouta valid licence issued under the provisions of this by-law by the Chairman of Urban Council.

4. Unless the premises applied for obtaining a license under this by-law is in conformity with the conditions set outbelow the Chairman shall not issue a licence to anybody to carry on a fish sales centre —

(1) The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied with trustproof metal sheets ;

21AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

(2) The floor of the premises where fish is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished off withcement or laid with tiles ;

(3) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilities theflow of waste water ;

(4) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drainsreferred to in paragraph (3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain off suchwaste water to a suction pit ;

(5) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air ;

(6) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the fish market shall be made availablewhereas action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5 metersdeep in the ground or to dispose such in the manner decided and implemented by the Urban Council fromtime to time ;

5. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action shall be taken to wash and clean the floor, the tiled orcemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other utensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale withdisinfectant fluid.

6. Measures shall be taken to keep the licensed fish stall and its surrounding drains, all the utensils and equipmentsused in fish storage, preparation or sales in proper repaired condition and without odour.

7. Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed fish stall are stored in a deepfreezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the opening of the stallfor sales on the following day no species of fish left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in thedeep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.

8. Any licensed fish stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

9. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of fish no other goods or clothes or matsused for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

10.(I) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease has notelapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had beenrecently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself in whatever type of saleor be employed as an assistant of any person engaged in such business or caused to be engaged so or,allowed to be engaged in any task ;

(II) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employanybodoy else in any form of work at any fish stall ;

(III) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the fish stall to a medical test at least oncea year.

11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply all the employees employed in the fish stall with safety face-masks,gloves, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safetymaterials when they are on duty at the fish stall.

12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or liquid soap for the use of all persons employed at the licensedpremises.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201422A

13. While it shall be lawful for the Municipal Commissioner or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of fishkept for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any fish stall, no licensee shall resist or preventsuch purchase.

14.(1) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are reused, action shall be taken to categorizethe waste material under the categories —

(i) biodegradable waste ;(ii) glass ;(iii) paper or paper based materials ;(iv) polythene and plastics or materials based on polythene and plastics ;(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or other partsproduced in the production line ;(vii) dangerous waste ; and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containersor tanks put in place for that purpose.

(2) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in paragraph(I) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the Urban Council the finaldisposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.

15. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the by-laws in this part by the Municipal Commissioner orby an Authorized Officer shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the fish-stall.

16. In the event of the premises where sale of fish is carried on under a licence issued under the By-laws of this Part failsto maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4 or contravenes the provisions ofany By-law of the By laws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licenseedemanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before aspecified date.

17. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No. 16 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice beforethe date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing, the Chairmanshall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall notbe more than fourteen days.

18. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No. 19 fails to act in accordance with the manner setout in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall be lawful for the Chairman tocancel the licence issued to that premises.

19. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255).

20. Unless other interpretation is required degarding the text of this by-law ;

“Council” means the Urban Council.

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council.

“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.

23AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

BY-LAW RELATING TO VEHICLE CONTROL IN ROADS WITHIN THEURBAN COUNCIL AUTHORITIES

1. This by-law is enforced to regulate weight and speed limits in Urban Council roads, minimizing the possibility ofdamage to a road and thoroughfare posed thereby and control of transportation within Urban Council authorities.

2. This by-law shall be named as “By-law relating to Weight and Speed Limits of Urban Council Roads”.

3. Through a resolution passed at the Urban Council, specifying the maximum weight and speed for a vehicle travellingin a road or thoroughfare considered as suitable by the Urban Council from among the roads and thoroughfaressituated within the said Urban Council area of authority, is lawful.

4. The Chairman of the Urban Council shall display the regulations specified in the above by-law No. 3 at the startingpoint or ending point or at main access points of the said road or thoroughfare by way of a notice board / boards tobe seen by the public.

5. When performing the regulations stated in the above Section 4, the relevant notice boards shall be displayed inaccordance to regulations enforced by the Thoroughfares Ordinance and Motor Traffic Ordinance.

6. Where a road or thoroughfare controlled under the Urban Council is reconstructed or constructed, subsequent toa notice issued by the Chairman of the Urban Council prior to three days of such reconstruction or construction, theChairman may close or restrict transportation in the said road or thoroughfare or part thereof.

7. The residents residing beside the road or thoroughfare controlled under the Urban Council shall not cause wastewater to flow into the road or thoroughfare.

8. The residents residing beside the road or thoroughfare controlled under the Urban Council shall prevent branchesof trees from protruding on to the road or thoroughfare in an obstructing or hindering manner.

9. Breach or contravention of whatever provision of this by-law is an offence and when convicted before a court ofproper jurisdiction with regard to the relevant offence, the maximum penalty that may be imposed and where suchbreach or contravention is continued further even after being convicted, and where the said contravention iscontinued even further subsequent to being handed over a written notice by the Chairman or other authorizedofficer drawing attention to the said contravention, the maximum additional penalty that may be imposed for eachday of such contravention shall respectively be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltyimposed by Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. All the penalties charged under thisshall be credited to the Urban Council Fund.

10. Unless other interpretation is required with regard to text,

“Thoroughfare and road” mean a road or thoroughfare situated within the Urban Council area of authorityproviding people with road rights, completely or partially being repared or maintained by the Urban Councilor completely or partially repaired or maintained by the Urban Council.

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Urban Council.

“Vehicle” means the same meaning as provided under the Motor Traffic Ordinance.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201424A

BY-LAW RELATING TO ITINERARY TRADE

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control itinerary trade within Urban Council area ofauthority.

2. This by-law shall be as cited as the “By-law Relating to Itinerary Trade within the Urban Council Area of Authority”.

3. Provided that a valid permit issued by the Chairman of the Urban Council for the particular function, no person shallsell or keep for selling any goods, materials or food at a road, thoroughfare, public park, playground or any otherpublic place within the Urban Council area of authority or sell or keep for selling such goods, material or food whilecarrying them to and from by hands or bicycle or tricycle or cart or any other vehicles.

4. Every permit issued under above Section 03, unless cancelled earlier, will be valid for the whole period for which itwas issued.

5. Every request for itinerary trade shall be submitted in accordance to an application prepared as per the format statedin Schedule “a” of this by-law. It was to be obtained after paying a fee decided by the Urban Council.

6. A permit issued undr this by-law shall comply with the Schedule “b” of this by-law and the fee levied on that shallbe decided by the Council from time to time considering the periods.

7. Every itinerary vendor when he engages in trading activities shall wear the permit issued by the Chairman to bevisible clearly or keep exposed the relevant part of the permit which is required to be displayed.

8. In every occasion where the vendor is informed by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to present vendor’spermit, every itinerary vendor shall present his permit and related documents.

9. Unless the time has specifically been restricted according to the nature of the trade, every itinerary vendor inpossession of a permit holds the right to engage in his business from 6.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. Provided that theChairman has allowed him to engage in business beyond that time period and if that fact has been stated in thepermit, it is lawful to engage in business within that mentioned time period.

10. Any permit holder engaged in the itinerary trade shall prevent himself from engaging in business if he is sufferingfrom a contagious disease.

11. Every itinerary vendor engaged in the food selling business shall comply with the following provisions.

(1) The food items kept on the move for selling shall be kept so as to prevent contamination by flies, andcollection of dust, waste, odour and such food shall not be allowed to be handled with bare hands bypersons.

(2) The vehicle, bicycle, cart, receptacles, trays and all the equipment and utensils in contact with food shall bekept in clean condition daily.

(3) Paper on materials used to wrap food shall be in good condition to be used for that purpose.

(4) Clean equipment and tools shall be used to handle food.

(5) No person suffering from a contagious disease shall be deployed for the sale of food time.

(6) Fire shall not be used in a manner dangerous or oppressive to a certain person or persons.

(7) Waste or waste water shall not be dumped in public places and proper measures shall have been taken toremove them in a manner satisfactory to the Chairman.

25AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

12. No itinerary vendor shall sell meat of an animal mentioned in the Butcher’s Ordinance.

13. Where the Chairman has declared a particular area, zone, street, thoroughfare, business preventing itinerary tradingactivities therein due to spreading of an epidemic or contagious disease or being an area where such had alreadyspread, or due to some timely reason, itinerary trade shall not be conducted in such area, zone, street, thoroughfareeven if a vendor possesses a valid permit.

14. The waste generated in itinerary trading activities shall not be disposed to the external environment in any otherway except according to the system implemented within the said area by the Urban Council.

15. Even if holding a permit under this by-law itinerary trade shall not be conducted within a public fair.

16. No permit holder shall engage in business while stalling in one place for a long time.

17. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated undr Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

18. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“Council” means the Urban Council.

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council.

“Urban Council Area of Authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.

“Food” means food and beverages taken for human consumption.

“Itinrary Trade” means a mobile trading activity kept on the move with the assistance of one’s own self oranimal or vehicle or cart or bicycle or tricyle.

SCHEDULE “A”

APPLICATION FOR OBTAINING A PERMIT TO ENGAGE IN ITINERARY TRADE

1. Full Name of the Applicant : .......................................................................................................................2. Permanent Address of Applicant : ............................................................................................................

3. Temporary Address of Applicant : ............................................................................................................4. Applicant’s National Identity Card No. : .................................................................................................

5. Applicant’s telephone No. : .......................................................................................................................6. Nature of itinerary trade : ...........................................................................................................................

7. How itinerary business will be maintained : ............................................................................................8. Area of authority applied for : ...................................................................................................................

9. Area of authority applicant resides in : ....................................................................................................10. Permit period required : ...............................................................................................................................

11. Registered number of vehicle used for itinerary trade : ..........................................................................

...................................................Signature of Applicant.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201426A

Instructions :

1. Copy of the Identity Card to confirm permanent residence.

Subject Clerk’s report to issue the permit...............................................................Signature of Subject Clerk.Date : ....................................

Recommend / not recommend the issuance of permit...............................................Secretary.Date : ....................................

Recommend / not recommend the issuance of permit...............................................Chairman,Urban Council.

SCHEDULE II

PERMIT TO ENGAGE IN ITINERARY TRADE

1. Full Name of the permit holder : .......................................................................................................................2. Permit holder’s National Identity Card No. : ..................................................................................................3. Nature of itinerary trade : ............................................................................................................4. Permit area : ............................................................................................................5. Permit period : ............................................................................................................

Date : ..................................................................................Chairman,Urban Council.

(This part shall be worn to be visible clearly, or else, it shall be displayed)

PERMIT GIVEN TO ENGAGE IN ITINERARY TRADE WITHIN URBAN COUNCIL AREA OF AUTHORITY

1. Full Name : ........................................................................................................................................2. Permanent Address : .......................................................................................................................3. National Identity Card No. : ...........................................................................................................4. Permit holder’s signature : ..............................................................................................................5. Permit area : ......................................................................................................................................6. Permit period : ..................................................................................................................................7. Nature of itinerary trade : ...............................................................................................................8. Permit holder’s signature : .............................................................................................................

Date : ..................................................................................Chairman,Urban Council.

27AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

BY-LAW RELATING TO ADVERTISEMENTS

1. This by-law will be enforced for the purpose of regularization, control of advertisements displayed conspicuouslyto a road located witin the Urban Council area of authority and for levying charges on advertisements advertisedthus.

2. This by-law shall be named as the By-law Relating to Advertisements within the Urban Council Area of Authortiy.

3. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement to be conspicuous to certain road or thoroughfareunless he possesses a license issued by the Chairman of Urban Council assigning power to do so.

4. For the purposes of this by-law, an advertsement means a board, banner, cutout or advertisements created bydrawing on Aluminimum sheets, iron, polythene, fabric or paper, else an advertisement-board set up using galvanizediron or an advertisement displayed on a houses, boutique, hotel, wall, boundary wall to promote certain place oftrade, trade material or business by using letters or pictures or special advertisements displayed on festive occasionslike trade exhibitions and carnivals.

5.(1) Every application requesting a license for the display of whatever advertisement shall comply to the formatstated in the first schedule herein and shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council at least prior to threedays of such date on which the said advertisement is meant to be displayed according to the sixth section ofthis by-law.

(2) The fee charged for an application issued by the Urban Council may be decided by the Council from time totime through a resolution passed at the Council.

6. Every application forwarded under the 5th by-law shall satisfy the following requirements.

(1) Ground plan drawn not less than the scale relative to the location of the structure where the advertisement isto be set up.

(2) The diagram of that structure drawn in scale not less than 1 : 1000

(3) If any amendments so as to comply with these by-laws exist in that plan, diagram or specification, includingsuch amendments.

(4) A copy of the same advertisement drawn in small scale and had all the colours applied that of the advetisementto be displayed.

(5) The plan indicating the location of the advertisement in relation to the adjacent roads and main land marks.

7. Unless conforming to plans, diagrams and specifications approved by way of a written document by the Chairmanof the Urban Council, no person shall construct or cause to constuct within the Urban Council area of authority anyadvertisement or advertisements or any board, billboard, advertising boards, or any other structure to be utilized forthe task of display.

8. Where an application forwarded under by-law No. 05 is approved by the Chairman of Urban Council, the applicantshall not be issued with a license until prescribed charges decided upon as per schedule (2) below had been paid.

9. Where a license has been issued to a person for displaying an advertisement board, the Urban Council shallorder the said person to include license reference No. and license holder’s name in every advertisement displayedby him.

16 — PG 2247

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201428A

10. The provisions stated in these by-laws shall not be relevant to any of the advertisements stated below unless suchadvertisement is a electrical advertisement or sky name board ;

(1) A notice relating to a concert that deploys the amount of net revenue for charity affairs ;

(2) An advertisement relating to a concert and displayed on the spot where the said concert is held ;(3) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting ;

(4) An advertisement stating “to be let on rent” ;(5) An advertisement stating “for sale” ;

(6) House name boards ;(7) Name boards utilized for professional activities and not exceeding 0.93 Square Meters in area ;

(8) A vehicle used for some trade purpose displaying an advertisement indicating the nature of that trade affair orbusiness, owner’s name, address, telephone No. and email address.

11. No. person shall ;

(1) display an advertisement on top of a street, road or footpath, or across or protruding to such street, road orfootpath ;(2) display an advertisement on a board exceeding 15 meters height from the floor level ;

(3) fix or let hang an advertisement on the surface of a building facing a street or road or on a name board of abusiness place, or in a manner exceeding the length of the surface of the said building ;(4) construct or set up an advertisement in the nature of sky advertisement without prior approval of the UrbanCouncil.

12. No person shall display an advertisement on a private or public building, place of religious worship, Public Park oron a bridge or overhead passenger bridge, telephone or electricity post, side wall, dam, anicut, culvert, rock, bank ortree.

13. No advertisement shall be constructed or set up in an area specifically indicated in a resolution adopted by theCouncil and duly published in the gazette paper unless it is a trade center board constructed or set up in accordanceto the manner approved by the Chairman of the Urban Council.

14. No person shall, in a street or road located within the Urban Council area of authority use a radio, gramophone,musical instrument, a bell or other equipment for the purpose of displaying or introducing any advertisementwithout the permission of Chairman of the Urban Council.

15.(1) Where a particular advertisement found to be displaying repulsive or revolting image and causing damage topublic morality, the Chairman of the Urban Council by way of a written announcement may order the personadvertising the said advertisement to stop displaying the advertisement within a time period specificallynotified by that announcement.

(2) Any person who has been served a notice under Paragraph 01 of this by-law shall take action as per the saidnotice within the time specified therein.

16. The owner or lease holder of a board used for displaying advertisements ;

(1) Shall maintain the said boards in proper repaired state and ensuring safety of persons.

(2) Shall display his name and address in legible letters on the front surface of the board in a clearly visible place.

17. No person shall distort certain logo or number included by Urban Council in an advertisement to indicate that theprescribed license fee for the display of that advertisement has been paid.

29AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

18. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

19. It is lawful for the Urban Council to remove without any prior notice the advertisements displayed within the UrbanCouncil area of authority without obtaining a license under this by-law.

20. Where certain person or institution has become an offender due to the reason of continuous display of advertisementswithout obtaining a license or due to contravention of conditions stipulated under this by-law, it is lawful for theUrban Council to blacklist such person or institution regarding advertisement related activities within that UrbanCouncil area of authority.

21. Subsequent to receiving permission to display advertisments, eventhough the permit’s period of validity is valid fora future period, if an advertisement board or a cutout or a banner fixed in any manner or drawn on a wall or parapetwall has become torn, slants, collapses or discoloured, brocken down, changed and affects the attractiveness of thecity in whichever manner, within 7 days of handing over a written notice to the relevant owner with regard to suchadvertisements, measures shall be taken by him to restore it and if such restoration does not take place, it is lawfulfor the Council to remove such advertisement. Where the Council will have to remove the advertisement bydeploying employees of the Council after 14 days of such notice, the Urban Council will not hold whatsoeverresponsibility regarding the said advertisement.

22. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law,

“Council” means the Urban Council.

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council.

SCHEDULE 01

APPLICATION FOR DISPLAY OF ADVERTISEMENTS

1. Full Name of the Applicant : ................................................................................................................................2. Permanent Address : ..............................................................................................................................................

3. Business, festival, exhibition, carnival, meeting or trading material expected to be promoted through theadvertisement : .......................................................................................................................................................

4. Location / locations where the advertisement is intended to be displayed : ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5. Has relevant format been attached ? : .....................................................................................................................6. Type of advertisement expected to be displayed (banner, boards, cutouts, wall, parapet wall or permanent ) :

...........................................................................................................................................................................................7. Even after receiving approval to display your advertisement, in the event of such advertisement being discoloured,

slanted, torn, collapes on to ground, would you agree to restore it ? : .....................................................................

I hereby agree to display the advertisement in accordance to the regulations accepted by the Urban Council and Iam well aware that contravention of the relevant by-law or any section therein to be a punishable offence.

Date :..............................................(Signature of Applicant)

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201430A

The following documents have been attached.

1. Where the advertisement is a permanent one, the letter of consent obtained from the owner of the land where thesaid advertisement will be set up.

II. If the advertisement will be drawn on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, parapet wall or any such place, the letter ofconsent obtained from the owner of the said parapet wall, wall, boutique or hotel.

III. Details of how land (space) will be used to draw or permanently fix the advertisement.

IV. The format relevant to the advertisement shall be presented clearly. (subsequent to issuance of the licence, permissionwill not be allowed to change the format in any way)

SCHEDULE 02

AccessionNature of BoardSquare FeetCharges Rs.No.ExtentLess thanBetweenAn year03 months03 to 06 months

01.Advertisements displayed on aBetween 02 to 10252530wall or parapet wallMore than 10253040

02.Fabric, Digital bannersBetween 02 to 10303540

More than 10354045

03.Advertisements displayedBetween 02 to 10354045through metal sheets or woodMore than 10404550

04.Electrically operatedBetween 02 to 10454550advertisementsMore than 10505570

05.Advertisements displayedBetween 02 to 10202530through polythene or cardboardMore than 10303540

06.Advertisements displayedBetween 02 to 10505560through plastic boards or fiberMore than 10556065

07.Advertisements displayed usingBetween 02 to 10404560electrical equipmentMore than 10505570

31AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

BY-LAW ON PARKING OF THREE-WHEELERS

1. These By-law shall be enforced for the purpose of parking, regulating and controlling of Three-wheelers within theUrban Council area of authority (hereinafter referred to as “area”) and for levying charges on parking.

2. This By-law shall be cited as the By-law on Parking of Three-wheelers within the Urban Council Area of Authortiy.

3.(1) The Three-wheeler parks within the limits of the Urban Council and the Maximum Number of Three-wheelersto be parked at each park shall be decided on a resolution passed by the Council and such decisions shallcome into operation from the date of publication of them in the Gazette or from a date specified therein.

(2) If the Council is of the opinion that the Number of Parks and the Number of Three-wheelers to be parkedtherein, decided under Section 3(1) above shall be amended, it may be done by a resolution passed by theCouncil and such amendment shall come in to operation from the date of publication of them in the Gazette orfrom a date specified therein.

(3) The Council shall seek recommendations of the Committee consisting of the persons referred to in theSchedule One in order to decide places of the Three-wheeler parks and to decide its ranges and the maximumnumber of Three-wheelers that can be parked in each park or to amend such decisions.

(4) A board shall be fixed at each park in order to identify the places to park Three-wheelers in terms of the Section3(1) above and the code number of the relevant park shall be displayed in the board. The maximum number ofThree-wheelers that can be parked shall be displayed in the said board in terms of Section 3(2).

(5) The Three-wheelers shall be properly parked and the manner in which they are to be parked shall be markedby an authorized officer of the Council with a white or yellow line of 4 inches in width.

4. It shall be legal to issue a license arranged in compliance to this by-law by the Chairman for parking of three-wheelers and to impose charges and collect charges for such purpose through a resolution passed at the Council.

5. When issuing licenses for Three-wheelers for the purpose of parking in a Three-wheeler park, priority shall be givento the Three-wheelers owned by the nearest residents.

6.(1) For the purpose of parking a Three-wheeler in the Three-wheeler park nearest to the permanent residence, alicense shall be obtained from the Urban Council making an application as per specimen application formmentioned in the Schedule of this by-law and charges on behalf of that shall be decided through a resolutionpassed at the Council from time to time.

(2) In case where the driver is the owner, the photo copies of the following documents of such person and in casewhere the driver is a hired person, photocopies of such documents of both hired driver and the owner shall beaccompanied with the application. Such application shall be in the manner mentioned in the Schedule Two :-

(i) The National Identity Card and the Valid Driving License of the owner ;(ii) Certificate of Registration of the Three-wheeler ;(iii) The National Identity Card and the Valid License of the hired driver.

(3) A register shall be maintained in respect of Three-wheelers which have been obtained licensed issued by theCouncil and when cancelled such license, it should be recorded with red ink.

(4) The Council may issue licenses monthly, quarterly or annually for the purpose of parking Three-wheelers.

(5) A photocopy of the valid license shall be displayed on the front glass of the Three wheeler which can be seenclearly.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201432A

(6) The right side of the Three-wheeler shall be blocked to prevent the passengers from getting into or gettingout.

(7) The license shall be issued in the name of the registered owner of the Three-wheeler.

(8) The Three-wheeler owner shall renew the license two weeks before the expiry of such license.

(9) In terms of subsection 6(4) above license fee imposed on the monthly, quarterly or annually shall be decidedby the Council and such fee shall be charged with effect from the date when such decision is published in theGazette or such a date specified therein.

(10) In terms of By-law 4 Three-wheelers shall not be parked or entered into a Three-wheeler park unless the three-wheeler possesses a valid license issued by the Council.

(11) Notwithstanding the possession of a valid license issued, a Police Office or the Chairman or an Officer whohas been authorized by him may order that a Three-wheeler be removed temporarily from the park, and thislicense shall not be an obstruction to such order.

7. Other vehicle shall not be entered or parked in a Three-wheeler park.

8. Neither Three-wheeler nor any other vehicle shall be parked in the manner of blocking the entrance and the exit ofthe Three-wheeler Park.

9. No any other repairs shall be done in the Three-wheeler Park other than the repairs relating to removal of the Three-wheeler.

10. No Three-wheeler shall be parked in any other place awaiting hires other than the relevant parking place for whichthe license has been obtained.

11.(1) These By-laws with regard to the Three-wheeler parking shall be enforced from 06.00 hours to 20.00 hoursevery day of the week.

(2) Time indicated in By-law No. 11 above may be amended by a resolution passed on the need of the Council andsuch amendment shall come into effect after publishing a notification in the Gazette.

12. At the time licensed Three-wheelers have been parked in an Three-wheeler park, the drivers shall not call and allowoutsiders to come into the park and loiter in the park.

13. No person shall use drugs or conduct immorality or commit any oppressive act in a Three-wheeler park and it is aresponsibility of the persons authorized to use the park, not to allow any person to commit such acts.

14. If there are any complaints from public regarding any misbehaving at Three-wheeler parks by any person whopossesses a license, the Council reserves the authority to inquire into those complaints and to cancel his license iffound guilty for the charges.

15. The driver or the owner of the Three-wheeler shall produce the original copy of the valid license on demand by theChairman or an Officer authorized for this purpose by him or a Police Officer.

16.(1) Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for suchoffence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention iscontinued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officerserves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continuedcontravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximumof the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance(Chapter 255).

33AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

(2) In the event where convicted by a court of proper jurisdiction as per Section 16 (1), the Council shall annul thelicense in addition to the penalty imposed.

17. Notwithstanding anything mentioned contrary in these By-laws by a resolution passed by the Council, these By-laws may be amended, repealed by enacting new By-laws or enact additional By-laws.

18. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;

“Council” means the Urban Council ;

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council ;

“An Officer Authorized for the purpose by Chairman” means, any Officer of the Urban Council who has beenauthorized by the Chairman ;

“An authorized Officer who has been delegated by the Chairman for the purpose” means, any Officer hold apermanent post of the Council who has been authorized by the Chairman in writing;

“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established ;

“Three Wheeler” means three wheeler Park for hiring ;

“Hired Driver” means, a person who drives the Three-wheeler either the owner or any other person employed fordriving by the owner of the Three-wheeler ;

“Parking Place” means, Three-wheeler Park determined on a resolution passed by the Urban Council ;

“Specific Parking Place” means, a specific parking place for which a License has been issued by the Chairman ofthe Urban Council ;

“Monthly” means, each month starting from 1st consisting 28, 30 or 31 days as applicable ;

“Quarterly” means successive three months starting from 1st of January up to 31st of December consisting of thenumber of days as defined in “Monthly” ;

“Annually” means, a calender year starting from 1st of January and ending on 31st of December;

“Police Officer” means, the same interpretation as defined under Section 104 in chapter 53 of the Police OrdinanceNo. 16 of 1865 ;

“Other Vehicles” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance ;

“Registered Owner” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance;

“Act of Nuisance” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Nuisance Ordinance.

SCHEDULE ONE

The Road Committee to be appointed shall consist of the members mentioned below :-

1. The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Chairman of the Urban Council and the Secretary shall be the RevenueInspector of the Council ;2. The Secretary and the Technical Officer of the Urban Council ;3. The Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;4. The Chairman of the Provincial Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;5. The Chairman of the Road Passenger Transport Authority or a representative nominated by him;6. The Chairman of the Sri Lanka Transport Board or a representative nominated by him ;7. The Officer in Charge of the Traffic in the Police Stations coming under the jurisdiction of the Council or a representativefrom each station nominated by them ;8. A representative from each Three-wheeler Drivers’ Union within the jurisdiction on the Council.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201434A

SCHEDULE TWO

Licence for Three-Wheeler Parking :

1. Application

(i) Name of Applicant : ————,(ii) Permanent Address : ————,(iii) Rates No. : ————,(iv) Local Authority relating to Permanent Address : ————,(v) National Identity Card No. : ————,

2.(i) Registration No. of the Three-wheeler : ————,(ii) State Whether the driver is the owner or the hired driver : ————,

(1) If the driver is the owner, valid driving Licence No. : ————,(2) If he is a hired driver : ————,

Permanent Address : ————,N.I.D. No. : ————,Valid Driving Licence No. : ————,

3. Three-Wheeler park for which the licence is applied.

4. Duration of the licence applied for ; a month/three months/a year.

I, declare that the above particulars furnished me are correct and I am aware that my licence for three-wheeler parkis liable to be cancelled without prior notice in case such particulars are found to be false and I agree to comply with theprovisions stipulated in the By-laws relating to the parking of three-wheelers imposed by the Urban Council.

.....................................................Signature of Applicant.

Date : .................................... .

I approve the grant of licence to Mr./Mrs .......................................................................................for parking theThree-wheeler No......................................................at .....................................................Three-wheeler park for a period of

.....................................................

Date : ....................................

.....................................................CHAIRMAN,............ Urban Council.

35AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

BY-LAW RELATING TO CHARGES LEVIED ON SERVICES

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize services provided by Urban Council and charges levied on suchservices.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Charges Levied on Services Supplied by Urban Council.

3. The following shall include under services relating to this by-law :

(1) Issuance of application forms. It includes the following

(i) Applications for enrollment to pre-schools conducted by the Urban Council(ii) Applications for library membership for libraries conducted by the Urban Council(iii) Applications to request for citations from rates document(iv) Application for supplier registration(v) Application to obtain a certificate on Street Lines(vi) Application to obtain a certificate on non-assignment acquisition

(2) Issuance of certificates. It includes the following(i) Certificate on Street Lines(ii) Certificate on non-assignment acquisition(iii) Certificate on rights related to rates documents(iv) Certificates confirming citations from rates documents(v) Certificates confirming evaluation announcements issued

4. Charges levied on each service described under Section 3 of this by-law shall be decided from time to time througha resolution passed at the Council.

5. (1) Under every application form stated under Sub-section (1) of Section 3 above or along with each such application,a set of instructions to ensure correct filling of application should be included.

(2) For every such application issued, unless the charges set out in Section 04 of this by-law and the relevantreceipt had been produced, no application form shall be issued.

6. (1) Every person described under Section 3(2) of this by-law shall, after fulfilling the requirements specificallystated under the relevant application form, forward the relevant application form to the Chairman or an officerspecifically authorized by Chairman to the said task.

(2) No application partially completed or unable to satisfy the requirements stated in the application form shall beaccepted and where an accepted application relates to a service stated under Sub-section (2) of above Section3, the Chairman or the officer specifically authorized by him shall be responsible for the dispatch of detailspertaining to accomplishment of the relevant service within 3 day of accepting the application.

7. Where a duly filled application is accepted by the Chairman or an officer specifically authorized by him, chargesspecified in Section 4 of this by-law shall be levied for such application and every application forwarded thus shallbe documented.

8. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

9. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;

“Council” means the Urban Council ;

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council ;

“Authorized Officer” means a person functioning under a specific duty assignment of the Council for thepurposes of this by-law.17 — PG 2247

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201436A

BY-LAW RELATING TO PLAY GROUNDS

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, control and supervise public playgrounds located in Urban Council areaof authority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the “By-law Relating to Playgrounds of Urban Council· Area of Authority” .

3.(1) Any person intending to obtain a permit to use a playground belonging to Urban Council shall forward anapplication prepared according to the format stated in the First Schedule of this by-law.

(2) Charges levied on an application shall be a fee decided from time to time by a resolution adopted at theCouncil.

4. Unless the following stated conditions have been satisfied by a person submitting an application as stated in by-law 3 to use a playground belonging to Urban Council, the Chairman shall not issue a permit.

(1) Every application received by the Urban Council Office requesting to use playgrounds shall be considered inthe order of reception of those applications by the Urban Council. However, among the applications receivedto use a playground, priority shall be given to applications relating to certain sport or matter connected to asport.

(2) The permit shall only be issued after payment of playground reservation fee and deposit fee in the mannerdecided and published by the Urban Council from time to time.

5. An application to reserve a playground for use shall be submitted at least three days before the said reservationdate. The request made by whosoever a person shall be submitted three days prior to the expected reservation date,during office hours.

6. Where an applicant needs to cancel a reservation of a playground reserved as per provisions of this by-law, theChairman may consent to cancellation subjected to the following conditions.

(1) In the event where the request for cancellation is submitted prior to -

(i) three months of the reservation date, 5 percent from the fee paid ;

(ii) two months of the reservation date, 10 percent from the fee paid ;

(iii) one month of the reservation date, 15 percent from the fee paid ;

(iv) fifteen days of the reservation date, 25 percent from the fee paid ;

(v) seven days of the reservation date, 50 percent from the fee paid ;

(vi) three days of the reservation date, 75 percent from the fee paid ;

shall be retained under the Urban Council Fund.

(2) Where the cancellation request is made prior to a period less than 3 days of the reservation date, the fee. paidshall not be paid back.

(3) In the event of reservation being cancelled, the applicant has the right to completely recover the depositamount paid while making the said reservation.

7. A playground reserved by a person shall not be used for any other purpose other than the reserved purpose.

8. A permit issued in the event of reserving a playground shall not be transferred to other person on any grounds.

37AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

9. Where a consideration is not given for a request made by a person for reservation of a playground, the Chairman’sduty shall be to inform the said applicant in writing on the same day the request was made, while mentioning thereasons for such rejection.

10. In the event of where a playground reserved for certain purpose needs to be changed of date of such reservation,the applicant may make a request in writing to the Chairman to that effect. An alteration as per such request shallcomply with regulations stipulated in by-laws 4 and 5.

11. In any occasion where a playground is not reserved for any purpose as per provisions stated in this by-law, it shallbe the duty of the Chairman to allow such playground to be utilized for playing or sports training activities.

12. After using a playground for the particular purpose for which it was allocated, from the amount deposited at theUrban Council, subsequent to deducting-

(i) the value ofloss caused to playground or part therein, if there is any such;

(ii) the amount payable for the duration of time extended than the prescribed period of reservation of theplayground ;

any balance amount remaining shall be paid back to the Applicant.

13. No person shall damage or cause to damage any playground functioning under the Urban Council and cattle, swine,horses, ponies or dogs shall not be entered into the playground. Furthermore, without permission obtained from theChairman, no vehicle shall be entered into a playground.

14. Where a playground reserved under this by law is required for an urgent purpose of the Urban Council on the sameday of such reservation, the Chairman shall have authority to cancel the reservation. However, if such cancellationis carried out, it should be informed to the applicant 03 days prior to the date of reservation wherein the total amountand deposit paid by him shall be paid back to him. However, any such cancellation shall not be carried out withinless than 3 days prior to such reservation.

15. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

16. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“Council” means the Urban Council

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

“Urban Council Area of Authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.

“Playground” means a ground allocated by Urban Council for playing and includes any parapet wall or fencebuilt around the playground, a building or part of building constructed within such playground and any fixingsand equipment thereof.

“Sports” means the same meaning as interpreted in the Sports Act, No. 25 of 1973.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201438A

SCHEDULE I

APPLICATION FOR OBTAINING PERMISSION TO USE ......................................................................... PLAYGROUND OF............ .......................................................................................... URBAN COUNCIL

1. Name of the Applicant : ........................................................................................................................

Address : ...................................................................................................................................................

National Identity Card No. : ......................................................................................................................

2. Purpose the playground requested for : ..........................................................................................................

3. Date and time of reservation : .......................................................................................................................

Date : from ............................... to ...........................

Time : .......................................................................

I certify that all the above-mentioned information is true and accurate. I hereby agree to allow the Urban Council torecover any damage caused to buildings, constructions, equipment and fixings of the said playground from the depositamount in the event where the said playground is reserved as per this request and where the said deposit amount is notsufficient for recovery of the said loss, to pay any amount required in balance to Urban Council. I also agree to comply withthe provisions of by-laws relating to regularization, control and supervision of playgrounds.

.....................................................Signature of Applicant.Date : .................................... .

SCHEDULE II

FEE CHART FOR LEVYING CHARGES ON PLAYGROUND-USE

Name of PlaygroundFeeDeposit AmountAdditional Fee perRs. Cents.Rs. Cents.HourRs. Cents

01.

02.

03.

04.

05.

39AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

BY-LAW RELATING TO SALE OF MEAT

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the sale of meat within the Urban Council area ofauthority and to levying charges on such.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Sale of Meat within the Urban Council Area of Authority.

3. No person shall without obtaining a valid license issued under provisions of this by law by the Chairman of UrbanCouncil, use any premises within Urban Council Area of Authority for the purpose of selling meat.

4. Provided that the sales premises applied for obtaining a licence under this by law is in conformity with the conditionsset out below, the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any person to carry on a meat sales centre.

(1) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied with rustproof metal sheets.(2) The floor of the premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished off withcement or laid with tiles.(3) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate the flowof waste water.(4) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drainsreferred to in paragraph (3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain off such wastewater to a suction pit.(5) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.(6) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat market shall be made available,action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in theground or dispose in accordance with provisions decided upon by the Urban Council from time to time.(7) While water-sealed lavatory facilities sufficient for the use of the persons working in the premises shall be madeavailable, suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of after the use of the lavatory shall besupplied.

5. Provided that the meat is of an animal slaughtered at a slaughter house formally licensed under the provisions of theButchers Ordinance, no person shall sell or exhibit for sale meat at any meat stall.

6. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash and clean with disinfectant fluidthe floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat, other utensils and the places exhibiting meatfor sale.

7. Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drains in and around anylicensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or sale of meat.

8. Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meat stall are stored in a deepfreezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the opening of the stallfor sales on the following day no species of meat left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale or· kept in thedeep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.

9. When the Authorized officer has gazetted a proclamation under the provisions of the Butchers Ordinance prohibitingthe slaughter of animals in any slaughter house for food during a certain day or over a period of time no meat stallshall keep meat for sale or exhibit meat for sale or store meat at any meat stall.

10. Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats, insects or any other animal

11. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no other goods or clothes or matsused for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

12. Action shall be taken to keep drinking water in sufficient quantities for the use of employees serving in the licensedpremises.18 — PG 2247

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201440A

13. (1) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not elapsedno person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been recentlynursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybodyelse engage in any form of sale or as an assistant of any person engaged in sale at any meat stall.

(2) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employanybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.

(3) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the meat stall to a medical test at least oncea year.

14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety materials necessary to theemployees and to ensure that they are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the meat stall.

15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employed at the licensedpremises.

16. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat kept for saleor displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any meat stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent suchpurchase.

17. (1) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken to categorizethe waste material under the categories. -

(i) bio degradable waste;(ii) glass;(iii) paper or paper based materials;(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics;(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or other partsproduced in the production line;(vii) dangerous waste;

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for thatpurpose.

(2) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in paragraph(1) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the Urban Council the finaldisposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.

18. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an AuthorizedOfficer shall mean any occasion meat sales are done at the meat-stall.

19. In the event of the premises where sale of meat is carried on under a licence issued under the By-laws of this partfails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in By-law, No.4 or contravenes the provisionsof any By-law of the By-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licenseedemanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before aspecified date.

20. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law No. 19 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice beforethe date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing, the Chairmanshall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall notexceed more than fourteen days.

41AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

21. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in by-law No. 20 fails to act in accordance with the manner setout in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman tocancel the licence issued to that premises.

22. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255)ofthe Urban Councils Ordinance.

23. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;

“Council” means the Urban Council

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

“Urban Council Area of Authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.

BY-LAW RELATING TO FUNERAL SERVICE SUPPLY CENTRES

1. This by-law will be enforced to regularize, supervise and control funeral services supply centers within the UrbanCouncil Area of Authority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Funeral Service Supply Centres.

3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman of Urban Council for the particular function has been obtainedno person shall maintain funeral service centre within the Urban Council area of Authority.

4. Every licence issued under by-law No. 03, unless it is cancelled earlier by the Chairman, shall be valid up to 31 slDecember of the year for which it had been issued.

5. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part are fulfilled, the Chairman of Urban Council shall notissue a licence to a funeral service centre.

(I) While there shall be a separate room for preparing dead bodies· in the building where a funeral service centre ismaintained and the room shall have at least space not below nine square meters to prepare one dead body.Moreover, a concrete slab sufficient for use in this task shall be made available.

(2) While the room where the dead bodies are prepared shall always be located separate from the exposition hall ofthe Funeral Service Centre, action shall be taken to prevent outsiders entering without permission.

(3) Windows allowing fresh air to the room where the dead bodies are prepared shall have been set up to an extentnot less than one seventh of the area of the room.

(4) While sufficient receptacles to temporarily dump parts of the dead bodies removed in the process of preparingthem shall be made available, non-opaque receptacles that could be securely closed so as to prevent entry offlies, rats or other animals shall also be provided to collect blood flowing out of the dead body while it is beingprepared or other fluids or waste water generated in the event of the body being washed and due to whateverreason those waste shall never be allowed to flow into a public drain, public canal or external lands.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.201442A

(5) When arrangements are being made to keep dead bodies at the licensed premises for public homage, actionshall be taken to provide a sufficient number of chairs for the convenience of the people who come to pay lastrespects to the dead body and to allocate parking facilities for the vehicles of such guests.

(6) When displaying the coffins and wreaths intended for sale, the room or hall where such display is maintainedshall be covered in black glass not transparent to the outside.

6. Any person requesting a license under the provisions of the By-laws in this part shall forward to the Chairman of theUrban Council an application substantially prepared according to the specimen given in Schedule I to this part.

7. It there is no order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths in respect of a dead body, the parts ofthe body removed in the process of preparing, it shall be securely interred in a pit 1.2 Meters deep from the groundlevel before the elapse of six hours after the completion of preparatory activities.

8. If there is an order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths in respect of the parts of a dead bodyremoved in the process of preparing it, it shall be the duty of the licensee to act according to the order.

9. When there is no sufficient space at the funeral service centre to carry out the activities mentioned in the By-law No.7 action shall be taken to securely inter the body parts at the depth prescribed in that By-law at the public cemeteryof the Urban Council on payment of a fee to be decided by the Council from time to time.

10. The room where the dead bodies are prepared shall be m.aintained cleanly always having applied disinfectants.

11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply security clothes, face masks and gloves in the manner prescribed by theChairman of Urban Council to all the employees serving in the rooms where dead bodies are prepared and to ensurethat these employees wear those clothes and other apparatus when preparing dead bodies.

12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all the employees being employed at the licensed premises to a medicalexamination at least once a year.

13. The interior of the vehicle or vehicles transporting dead bodies shall be cleaned with vacuum cleaners and disinfectedat least once per day.

14. Polythene or any other non-decaying material shall not be used to cover the inside of a coffin or the entire deadbody or a part of the dead body unless the dead bodies are in such a condition as to make it impossible to preparedue to excessive injuries caused or due to any other reasons.

15. Unless there is written permission granted to the licensee by the Chairman of Urban Council under the conditionsprescribed by him, no person shall bring or allow anybody else to bring a dead body of a person presumed to havedied due to cholera, plague, smallpox, yellow fever or AIDS to the licensed centre.

16. No dead body shall be accepted by the licensee for preparing the body and organizing funeral arrangements, unlessa formal death certificate issued by the Registrar of Deaths on the particular death has been forwarded to him.

17. When the death is a sudden death or when the death is suspicious, any order given with regard to the final rites ofthe said corpse through a report issued subsequent to completion of an inquiry made by a Magistrate or an Inquirerinto Sudden Deaths, the licensee shall carry out the provisions stated in that order.

18. Where there is any order given through a report made by a Magistrate or Inquirer into Sudden Deaths with regardto final rites of the said corpse, the licensee shall carry out the provisions of that order.

19. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain cleanly and hygienically the place where a dead body is kept for publichomage.

43AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'14PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 14.11.2014

20. Nobody shall perform any activity within the premises of the funeral services centre that would cause harm orinconvenience to residents living close to the funeral service centre, or allow such things to happen.

21. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued evenfurther and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a writtennotice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, themaximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penaltystated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

22. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“Council” means the Urban Council

“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of Urban Council

“Funeral Service Supply Centre” means a centre where a dead body is prepared so as to preserve it for sometimeor where a dead body is prepared for last rites or place where a dead body is kept for public homage under a feeuntil it is taken to the cemetery for last rites;

“Preparing of dead bodies” means preparing a dead body of a person by preserving it temporarily so as to paylast respects, dressing a dead body, placing the body in a coffin and doing any other thing in this regard.

“Parts of the dead body” means any limb removed from the body of a dead person, or part of a limb or internalorgan or blood flowing out of the body or any other fluid or any dress or dresses worn by the person at the timeof death or any part of such dress or bandages, gauze or any other thing found in an injured part of the body.

SCHEDULE “A”

APPLICATION FOR LICENCE TO MAINTAIN A FUNERAL SERVICE SUPPLY CENTER

1. Full Name of the Applicant : ........................................................................................................................

2. Permanent Address of Applicant : .....................................................................................................................

3. Temporary Address of Applicant : ...............................................................................................................

4. Applicant’s National Identity Card No. : ...........................................................................................................

5. Applicant’s telephone No. : ..........................................................................................................

6. Area of authority applied for : ......................................................................................................

7. Area of authority applicant resides in : .......................................................

8. License period required : ...............................................................................

9. Registered number of vehicles carrying out funeral services : ....................................................................

I hereby agree to maintain the Funeral Service Center according to the regulations accepted by the Urban Counciland I am well aware that contravention of the relevant by-law or any section therein to be a punishable offence.

.....................................................Date : ............................Signature of Applicant.

11 - 940

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.