==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20151A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1930$12 - 2015 iema;eïn¾ ui 01 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2015'09'01No. 1930/12 - TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 01, 2015

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

MINUTE OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE

FOLLOWING Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service is hereby substituted without prejudice to any action takenor purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service published in the GazetteExtraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1426/34 dated 06th January 2006 and revisionsmade to the same from time to time.

On the order of Public Service Commission,

T. M. L. C. SENARATHNE,Secretary,Public Service Commission,12th February 2015.

Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service

1. Effective Date :

This Service Minute shall be effective from 01.06.2013.

2. Particulars of the Appointing Authority :

2.1 Appointing Authority: Training Grade, Grade III, Grade II and Grade I - Secretary of the respective Ministry/Head of the Department Special Grade- Public Service Commission

3. Service Category/Service Categories :

Supervisory Management Assistant- TechnologicalManagement Assistant- Supra Grade

3.1 Grades: Grade IIIGrade IIGrade ISpecial Grade

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20152A

4. General Definition of the Role Entrusted to :

A service category which performs the activities in the nature of multi-tasks including the tasks such assupervision, direction and management of Financial, Human, Physical, Material, Technical data and resourceswhich are supportive to the role of the executives of the institutions who are required to obtain a training on theknowledge on technology connected to practical subjects organized on scientific principles and supplementaryto professional services such as engineering, scientific, agriculture and animal production, which are themanagement services on training and experience.

5. Salaries :

5.1 Salary Code Number: Grade III, 11,1 -MN3-2006ASpecial Grade- MN7-2006A

5.2 Salary Scale :Grade III, 11,1 -Rs. 15,005/-4xI80-6x240-1Ix320-20x360- Rs.27,885/-Special Grade-Rs.20,030/-11x365-18x500-Rs33,045/-

5.3 Initial Salary step applicable to grading system :

GradeInitial salary stepSalary point (Rs)

Grade III1Rs. 15,005/-

Grade III12Rs.17,485/-

Grade I23Rs.21,045/-

Special Grade4Rs.21,125/-

5.4 Allowance for Training Grade, as per Public Administration Circular 06/2006 (11):-

1st Year- Rs. 12,920.002nd Year- Rs. l3,040.00

6. Posts belonging to the Service :

06.1 Approved Designations, approved number of Posts and Grades:

The posts approved by the Department of Management Services as posts of Sri Lanka TechnologicalService, under the Vote of each Ministry, Department, and Institution shall belong to this service.

Role entrusted to each post shall be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment relevant to the post.

6.2 Combined number of Officers:

For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade, III, II and I shall be treated as belonging to theCombined Number of Officers. An approved cadre for special grade shall be maintained separately dependingon the exigency of service outside the above cadre.

6.3 Nature of the Post : Permanent and pensionable

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20153A

7. Method of Recruitment :

7.1 Ratio of Recruitment

StreamPercentage

Open70%

Limited30%

MeritNot applicable

Note:I. 70% of vacant posts exists in combined number of officers of Grade III, II and I, shall be filled froman open competitive examination which is held for external candidates.

II. At such instances where sufficient internal candidates with basic qualifications are not found withinthe relevant Department/Ministry to fill the percentage to be recruited from limited competitiveexamination, remaining number shall be filled strictly by the external candidates who are selectedfrom the open competitive examination.

III. If the number of vacancies is less than 3, recruitments shall be made only under Open stream.

7.2. Recruitment under Open Stream

7.2.1 Recruitment Grade :

7.2.1.1 Training Grade: (Training period of two years)

Shall have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects in Science/Mathematics/Technology stream, including two subjects related to the field, at one sitting. (Subjects relatedto each post shall be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment)

and

Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another subject, at one sitting.

7.2.1.2 Training Grade: (Training Period of One Year)

(a) Educational Qualifications-

Shall have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects in Science/Mathematic/Technology stream, including two subjects related to the field, at one sitting. (Subjectsrelated to each post should be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment)

and

Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes forSinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another subject, at one sitting.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20154A

(b) Professional Qualifications :

(I) Shall have possessed National Certificate in Technology, following successfullya course in a field relevant to the post, from a Technical College recognized byTertiary and Vocational Education Commission(EX: National Certificate in Technology: Civil/Electrical/Mechanical)

(II) Shall have possessed the relevant certificate, successfully following a full timecourse of one year in Draftsmanship from a Technical College recognized Tertiaryand Vocational Education Commission

Or

(III) Shall have possessed the relevant certificate, successfully following the NationalCertificate Course for Industrial Technicians in a field relevant to the post from aTechnical College recognized by the Tertiary and Vocational EducationCommission

Or

(IV) Shall have possessed any other Technological qualifications recognized by Tertiaryand Vocational Education Commission as being equivalent in each and every wayto the Technological qualifications mentioned above after obtaining views of theInstitutions such as Ministry of Higher Education and other Institutions by whichthe above certificates issued.

Note:- I. At the instances where recruitments are made through both direct recruitments toGrade III and recruitments to training grade recruitment shall be first made toGrade III which is the recruitment grade

II. Where the number of candidates who become qualified to Grade III which is therecruitment grade is not sufficient, the remaining vacancies shall be filled by thecandidates who satisfy’ qualifications for recruitment to training grade.7.2.1.3 Grade III (Open)

(a) Educational Qualification:

(I) Shall have passed G.C.E. (A/L) examination in three subjects in Science/Mathematics/Technology stream, including two subjects related to the field relevantto the post, at one sitting. (Subjects related to each post should be mentioned inthe Scheme of Recruitment)

and

Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passesfor Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and another subject, atone sitting.

(b) Professional Qualifications:

(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the University of Moratuwa orHardy Technical College Ampara

or

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20155A

(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprenticeship andIndustrial Training Authority.

or

(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Educationand Higher Education.or

(iv) Two years Diploma in Agriculture awarded by an Institution recognized Tertiaryand Vocational Education Commission.

or

(v) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka. or

(vi) Successful completion of part I of the Engineering examination conducted bythe Sri Lanka Institute of Engineers.

or

(vii) Completion of level 6 of National Vocational Qualification (NVQ), related tothe field

(viii) Any other Technological qualifications recognized by the Tertiary and VocationalEducation Commission as being equivalent in each and every way to theTechnological qualifications mentioned above after obtaining views of theInstitutions such as Ministry of Higher Education and other Institutions by whichthe above certificates issued.

Note: Action shall be taken to include in to procedures of recruitment a segment/segments which are suitable to the requirement of the institution and so as to berelevant to the post out of 7.2.1.1, 7.2.1.2, 7.2.1.3. One or several qualificationsout of professional qualification mentioned in , 7.2.1.2 (b) and 7.2.1.3 .(b) shallbe selected and included in to relevant Scheme of Recruitment.

7.2.2 Physical Fitness

Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of thepost.

7.2.3 Other :

I. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka

II. Shall be of excellent character

III. No person who is ordained in any religious order shall become eligible to sit theexamination

IV. Candidates are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the competitive examinationfor recruitment to the service only if they have satisfied all the qualifications and the prescribedage limit in each and every aspect, as at the date prescribed in the notification for callingapplications.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20156A

7.2.4 Age :

7.2.4.1 The Minimum Age Limit : Not less than 18 years

7.2.4.2 The Maximum Age Limit : Not over 30 years

7.2.5 Method of Recruitment : Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination and ageneral interview. Qualified candidates shall be selected by calling for a general interview, a numberof candidates equivalent to the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of themerit determined on the aggregate of marks secured at the examination by the candidates who havepassed the written examination

7.2.5.1 Written Test

SubjectsMaximum marksPass mark

Intelligence test10040%

Subject related10040%Technological Test

(Syllabus shall be mentioned in the relevant Scheme of Recruitment)

7.2.5.1.1 Conducting Authority :

Appointing Authority shall mention authority for conducting the written examination ineach Scheme of Recruitment

7.2.5.2 Professional Test : Not applicable

7.2.5.3 Expected objectives to be achieved at General Interview :

Marks shall not be allocated and only verification of qualifications shall be made.

7.2.5.3.1 Appointing Authority of the General Interview Board :

Respective Appointing Authority

7.2.5.4 Structured Interview : Not applicable

7.2.6 Method of Calling Applications: Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the GovernmentGazette or publishing public notices or notices in the web site.

7.3 Recruitment under Limited Stream

7.3.1 Recruitment Grade :

7.3.1.1 Training Grade (For a training period of two years)

(a) Educational Qualifications :

Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passes forSinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20157A

(b) Experience :

Shall have obtained an active and satisfactory 10 years service experience in a permanent,departmental post of a primary or above service category in the relevant field

7.3.1.2 Training Grade : (For a training period of one year)

(a) Educational Qualification :

Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passesfor Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting.

(b) Professional Qualifications :

A 5 years experience in the relevant field along with a professional qualificationmentioned in 7 .2.1.2 (b)

(c) Experience :

Shall have obtained an active and satisfactory 10 years service experience in a permanent,departmental post of a primary or above service category in the relevant field

7.3.1.3 Grade III (Direct Recruitments)

(a) Educational Qualifications :

Shall have passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six subjects (06) with credit passesfor Sinhala/Tamil/English Mathematics and Science at not more than two sitting.

(b) Professional Qualifications

Shall have obtained a professional qualification relevant to the post mentioned in7.2.1.3 (b).

(c) Experience :

Shall have obtained an active and satisfactory 05 years service experience in a permanent,departmental post of a primary or above service category in the relevant field

7.3.2 Physical Fitness :

Shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform theduties of the post

7.3.3. Other

I. Shall have been confirmed in permanent appointments.

II. Shall have completed at least a satisfactory service period of 05 years, in a permanentappointment in public service immediately preceding the prescribed date and shall have certifiedthe same by the Head of the Department

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20158A

III. Officers are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the written test for recruitment tothe service only if the officer has satisfied all the qualifications in each and every aspect, as atthe date prescribed in the notification for calling applications.

7.3.4 Method of Recruitment

Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Qualifiedcandidates shall be selected by calling for a general interview, a number of candidates equivalent tothe number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of the merit determined on the aggregateof marks secured at the examination by the candidates who have passed the written examination

7.3.4.1 Written Test

SubjectsMaximum marksPass mark

Intelligence test10040%

Subject related Technological10040%Test

(Syllabus shall be mentioned in the relevant Scheme of Recruitment)

7.3.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :

Appointing Authority shall mentioned authority for conducting the writtenexamination in each Scheme of Recruitment

7.3.4.2 Professional Test : Not applicable

7.3.4.3 Expected objectives to be achieved from General Interview

Marks shall not be allocated and only verification of qualifications shall be made

7.3.4.3.1 Appointing Authority of the General Interview Board :

Respective Appointing Authority

7.3.4.4 Structured Interview : Not applicable

7.4 Recruitment under the Order of Merit : Not applicable

7.5 Recruitment to Grade III of End of Training Period

(a) Recruitment to Grade III shall be made on submission of the certificate issued by the relevantinstitution proving that the officer has passed the examination after successful completion of trainingperiod mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment , by the candidates who have been enrolled to theTraining Grade under Open or Limited stream.

(Relevant institution shall issue a proper certificate at the end of training period. The institutionwhich issues the certificate shall be mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment.)

(b) An opportunity shall be given for apprentices who are unable to pass the examination which is heldat the completion of training, to get their training period extended for not more than 06 months.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.20159A

Service of the apprentices who applied under open stream and failed from the examination which isheld again at the end of the extended training period shall be terminated. Apprentices who appliedunder limited stream shall be released to their previous posts.

(c) In case where there are certain special posts for which it is necessary to obtain a training periodover two years, recruitments shall be made to Grade III at the end of training on the basis of grantingone salary increment for each year of such additional training period and further the additionaltraining period shall be counted for the period considered for promotion to Grade II

(d) Apprentices selected under limited stream shall remain further on the salary scale receivedpreviously even in the training grade. However, they shall be paid an annual, allowance equivalent tothe initial salary increment of the recruitment grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service untilthey pass the examination held by the department at the end of the training period. An officer whofollows the training period successfully shall be placed in the second year on the higher salary stepof the salary scale which he receives so far. In the meantime the allowance shall be paid continuously.On passing the examination after completion of training period satisfactorily, salary conversionshall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Establishments Code revised by PublicAdministration Circular No: 07/2000 dated 02.03.2000.

(e) If the training period of the applicants, who are included into the Training Grade of a certain postunder open or limited stream, on the requirement of the relevant Ministry/ Department as the casemay be, relevant appointing authorities should take actions to obtain the approval of the PublicService Commission and to include the training period in each recruitment procedure.

08. Efficiency Bar Examination :

8.1

Efficiency BarAt what point the limit forNature of the Efficiency Barpassing the Efficiency BarWritten/Professionalexpires (number of years)test/Certificate courses/ other

1st Efficiency BarBefore lapse of three (03) yearsfrom recruitment to Grade III ofSri Lanka Technological Service

2nd Efficiency BarBefore lapse of three (03) yearsfrom promotion to Grade IIof Sri Lanka TechnologicalService

3rd Efficiency BarBefore lapse of five (05) yearsfrom promotion to Grade I ofSri Lanka Technological Service

8.2 Time Frame of the Efficiency Bar Examination : shall be conducted twice a year.

8.3 Authority for conducting Efficiency Bar Examinations:

(a) 1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examinations shall be conducted by Commissioner General ofExaminations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs

(b). 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination shall be a three month course on Management conducted by aninstitution approved by the Secretary of the Public Administration and Home Affairs

Written test(Schedule 01)

Written test(Schedule 02)

Three months trainingcourse on management

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201510A

Note: The officers who are being promoted to Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the date in whichthis minute shall be effective, shall be exempted from 3rd Efficiency Bar Examination.

09. Language Proficiency :

LanguageProficiency to be satisfied

Official LanguageOfficers, who have been appointed to service in a languageother than any official language, shall acquire relevantproficiency in official language within the probationperiod.

Other Official LanguageProficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired asper Public Administration Circular 01/2014 and othercirculars issued subsequently.

Link LanguageShall have obtained a credit pass for English language atG.C.E. Ordinary Level before lapse of 05 years In Grade III.

10. Grade Promotions :

10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II 10.1.1 On Average Performance

10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied

I. Shall have been confirmed in appointment.

II. Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years inGrade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments

III. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10)years preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.

IV. Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding thedate of promotion.

V. Shall have obtained the prescribed level of proficiency In other official language.

VI. Shall have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.

10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion

When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority asper the specimen form, promotion to Grade II shall be made by the Appointing Authority afterverification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.

10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I

10.2.1 On Average Performance

10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied

(I) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for ten (10) years inGrade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201511A

(II) Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within five (05) years immediatelypreceding the date of promotion.

(III) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten(10) years preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performance appraisalprocedure.

(IV) Shall have passed the second efficiency bar examination on due date.

10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion :

When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authority asper the specimen form, promotion to Grade I shall be made by the Appointing Authority afterverification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.

Note:- When promotions are made on average performance, the date of promotion of the officers who failthe efficiency bar examination on the prescribed date shall be delayed for a period equivalent to thedelayed period of time obtained to pass the examination.

10.3 Recruitment to Special Grade

10.3.1 Ratio of Recruitment

StreamPercentage

Limited40%

Service Experience and Merit60%

Note:- When recruitments are made to special grade, the vacancies shall be calculated as at 31stDecember of the previous year.

1. At the instances where the approved number of posts is 04, the percentage of recruitment underLimited competitive examination shall be 25%, and the percentage of recruitment under Seniorityand Merit shall be 75%. At the instances where the approved number of posts are 3, the percentageof recruitment under the above Limited competitive examination shall be 33.33%, and the percentageof recruitment under Seniority and Merit shall be 66.66%

II. At the instances where the approved number of posts is below 3, filling of vacancies in the postsshall be made on Service Experience and Merit of the officer.

10.3.2 Recruitment under Limited Competitive Examination

10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied :

(I) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for five (05) years inGrade I of the Supervisory Management Assistants- Technical service (MN-03) categoryand earned due five (05) salary increments.

(II) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately precedingthe date of promotion.

(III) Shall have passed the third efficiency bar examination on due date.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201512A

10.3.2.2 Method of Promotion

Promotions to special grade shall be made by the appointing authority on the order of meritof the examination and the number of vacancies after verifying that the other qualificationhave also been fulfilled by those who have passed on results of the examination for promotionto special grade conducted by an interview board appointed by Public Service Commission.(Examination for promotion to special grade- schedule 03)

Note:I. The results of the Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment to special grade shallstrictly be made applicable to fill the number of vacancies existing in the year which is relevantfor the examination)

II. If the examination could not be held annually, the results of the examination held in later yearshall be applied for the filling of vacancies existed in each year. For this purpose the officers,who have become qualified as at the dates on which the posts have fallen vacant in each year,shall be selected on the order of the marks and the date of promotion for special grades shallbe the date of the examination.

10.3.3 Recruitment on Seniority and Merit

10.3.3.1 Qualifications to be Satisfied

(I) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for Six (06) years inGrade I of the Supervisory Management Assistants- Technical service (MN-03) categoryand earned due Six (06) salary increments.

(II) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately precedingthe date of promotion.

(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above level during the period ofsix (06) years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approvedperformance appraisal procedure.

(iv) Shall have passed the third efficiency bar examination on due date.

10.3.3.2 Method of Recruitment

Promotions to special grade shall be made by the appointing authority after verifying by anexamination for verification of qualifications, which is conducted by the appointing authority,that the officer has satisfied all other requirements and on the order of the merits obtained atthe structured interview, for which marks are allocated for seniority and merit, which isconducted by an interview board appointed by Public Service Commission and on the numberof vacancies.

(Structured interview for promotion to special grade - Schedule 04)

11. Appointment to Posts - Provisions shall be included in each Scheme of Recruitment depending on therequirement

12. Conditions outside the general conditions indicated in the procedural rules of the Public ServiceCommission.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201513A

12.1 Probation Period and Confirmation in Service

I. An officer recruited to Grade III of the service on the results of the open competitive examinationshall be subjected to a probation period of three years. He/She shall be confirmed in the service atthe end of the probation period if he/she has passed the first efficiency bar examination, satisfiedthe requirement of acquiring the proficiency in official language and further his/her work and conductwere satisfactory.

II. Officers recruited to Grade III on the results of the limited competitive examination shall be subjectedto an acting period of one year. He/She shall be confirmed in the service at the end of such actingperiod if his/her work and conduct were satisfactory during the period.

12.2 Promotion in Professional Services

I. A certain percentage of the carder in professional services in departments shall be, reserved for thepromotions of the officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka Technological Service who are selected from anexamination

II . These paths shall be extended for the posts in Technological Service for which such promotionalpaths are not available. For this purpose it is expected that action shall be taken by the Head ofDepartments to create at least one departmental post parallel to professional services mentioned inSection 12.2.1

12.3 All the officers shall acquire skills and proficiencies as determined by the government from time totime.

13. Interpretations outside the interpretations mentioned in the Procedural Rules of ~ublic ServiceCommission

I. The term “Gazette” shall mean the gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka.

II. The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.

III. The term “Effective Date” shall mean the date on which this minute comes in to effect.

IV. “Service” or “S.L.T.S” shall mean the Sri Lanka Technological Service.

V. “Apprentice” shall mean a person who has been recruited under provisions of this Minute and is in TrainingGrade.

VI. “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaged in the duties assignedto him and drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the periods on No Pay other than MaternityLeave approved by the government shall not be counted for the period of active service.

14. Provisions for Absorption :

I. These provisions shall strictly be applied to the officers who are in Sri Lanka Technological Service as atthe effective date of this procedure. All the officers who receive salaries under salary scale MN-03-2006-A provided by Public Administration Circular No:06/2006 and circulars issued consequently onprescribed dates shall be absorbed in the following manner subjected to the provisions in Section 4,Chapter VII of the Establishments Code

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201514A

II. Period of service shall be calculated based on the date of appointment to each post or grade. However, thedate of salary increment of the relevant officer shall not be changed due to this absorption and that shallbe applied without any change as the increment date existed before the absorption. Further, the officershall not be placed on the next higher salary step as per section 4.4 , chapter VII of the EstablishmentsCode due to becoming the salary step received by the relevant officer corresponding to new salary step.

14.1 The absorption of officers, serving as at the effective date of this Minute, to Sri Lanka TechnologicalService, under the new service minute shall be made in the following manner.

14.1.1 Absorption to Grade III of the Service

Officers in Segment (b) of Class II of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date

14.1.2 Absorption to Grade II of the Service

Officers in Segment (a) of Class II of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date

14.1.3 Absorption to Grade I of the Service

Officers in Class I of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date

14.1.4 Absorption to Special Grade of the Service

Officers in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the effective date

15. Interim Provisions :

The interim provisions shall be effective up to 01.06.2018. When the officers, who are absorbed to Grade IIIand II as at the effective date of this service minute, are promoted, sections 7.1 (a) and 7.2 (a) of Sri LankaTechnological Service Minute published in the Gazette extraordinary no 1426/34 dated 06.01.2006 shall bemade applicable during the interim period. ( These interim provisions shall be applicable strictly for the officersrecruited under Sri Lanka Technological Service Minute No 1424/34 dated 06.01.2006 which was in effectbefore the implementation of new service minute. Other conditions shall be the conditions in new serviceminute)

16. Other :

16.1 General conditions in Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazetteextraordinary No 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the provisions of the Establishments Code shall beapplicable for each appointment.

16.2 Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission

16.3 In case of an inconsistency among the matters In Sinhala, Tamil and English versions, the Sinhala versionshall come into force.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201515A

SCHEDULE 01

1. Name of the Examination - First Efficiency bar examination for officers in Grade III of Sri LankaTechnological Service

2. Particulars of the Examination : This Examination shall consist of 02 questions papers.

Question paperDurationTotal MarksPass marks

Establishments02 hours10040%Code andProcedural rules ofPublic ServiceCommission

Financial02 hours10040%Regulations

3. Authority for conducting the examination

The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administrationand Home Affairs.

4. Time frame of the Examination :

The examination shall be held twice a year

5. Syllabus of the Examination

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Establishments Code and Procedural rulesProcedural rules of Public Serviceof Public Service CommissionCommissionChapters VIII, XII, XIII, XIV, XIX ofEstablishments Code

Financial RegulationsChapter 1From 01 to 68 of Financial RegulationsChapter IIIFrom 124 to 147 of Financial Regulations

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201516A

SCHEDULE 02

1. Name of the Examination - Second Efficiency bar examination for officers in Grade II of Sri Lanka TechnologicalService

2. Particulars of the Examination : This Examination shall consist of 02 questions papers.

Question paperDurationTotal MarksPass marks

Establishments02 hours10040%Code

Financial02 hours10040%Regulations

3. Authority for conducting the examination

The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration andHome Affairs.

4. Time frame of the Examination :

The examination shall be held twice a year

5. Syllabus of the Examination

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Establishments CodeChapters XV, XVI, XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVII, XXVIII,XXX, XXXIII, XLVII, XLVIII of Establishments Code

Financial RegulationsChapter V1From 315 to 396 of Financial RegulationsChapter XIIIFrom 685 to 775 of Financial Regulations

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201517A

SCHEDULE 03

1. Name of the Examination - Limited Competitive Examination for promotion of officers in Grade I of Sri LankaTechnological Service (to special grade)

2. Particulars of the Examination :

Question paperDurationTotal MarksPass marks

Aptitude Test01 hours10040%

Management03 hours10040%

3. Authority for conducting the examination

The Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration andHome Affairs.

4. Time frame of the Examination :

The examination shall be held once a year as per requirement

5. Syllabus of the Examination

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

ManagementI.Principals of ManagementII.Management FunctionsPlanningDecision makingProcess of decision makingOrganizationStaffingDirectingMotivation processLeadershipControlProcess of controlling policiesIII.Participatory ManagementIV.Management environmentV.Case study

Aptitude testA test designed to assess as to whether theofficer has acquired knowledge skills andattitudes required for the fulfillment of tasksentrusted to him/her In an efficiency beyondthe performance at average level andwhether the officer displays competencyI the application of the above.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.201518A

SCHEDULE 04

1. Name of the Examination: Structured interview for promotion of officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka TechnologicalService

2. Fields to which the marks are allocated at the interview and the Marks

Main areas to which marksMaximum MarksPass Marksare allocated

Service Experience50N/A

Active and satisfactory periodof service beyond the relevantbasic qualification

Merit45

(Merit shall be determinedbased on the marking schemeapproved by the Public ServiceCommission depending on thesituation.

Merit proved at the05interview

Total100

3. Authority by which the interview is conducted: An interview board appointed by Public Service Commission

4. Time frame of the Structured Interview : Once a year as per requirement.

09-349

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.