==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1981$2 - 2016 wf.daia;= ui 22 jeks i÷od - 2016'08'22No.1981/2 - MONDAY AUGUST 22, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

The Department of Co-operative Development (North Western Province)

CODE OF CO-OPERATIVE REGULATIONS FOR ELECTING REGIONAL COMMITTEE MEMBERS OFMULTIPURPOSE CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES IN NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE

THE Code of Regulations on Co-operative Elections formulated on procedures in electing Committee Members ofRegions at Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province and matters connected or consequentialthereto where authority has been vested in the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operativeSocieties to formulate regulations for the purpose of electing Regional Committees in terms of Registered By-laws.

As per powers vested in me through the by-law 23 of the registered by-laws of the Multipurpose Co-operativeSocieties in North-western Province or any other specific by-law or /and the by-law No. 24 of the by-law of the UdubaddawaMultipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd, I, Dissanayanayake Mudiyanselage Kulamina Chandana Dissanayake, theCommissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of North-western Province, do hereby stipulate the regulationsunder mentioned for the purpose of electing Regional Committee Members of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societiesin North-western province in relation to which such powers have been vested.

D.M.K.C.DISSANAYAKE,Commissioner of Co-operative Development &Registrar of Co-operative Societies (North-western).On 12th August, 2016,Kurunegala.PART I

GENERAL

1.1 These regulations are called the Code of Co-operative Regulations for Electing RegionalCommittee Members of Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province andthis Code of Electoral Regulations should be effective in North-western Province with effectfrom the date of its publication in the Gazette.

2.1 The Code of Co-operative Regulations for Electing Regional Committee Members ofMultipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province which, hereinafter will becalled the Code of Electoral Regulations, will be applicable only for the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province, which, by their registered by-laws, have vestedpowers of formulating regulations for electing Regional Committees to the Commissionerof Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies.

Short title andeffective date ofregulations

Relevance ofelectoralregulations

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.20162A

2.2 when the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societiesin North-western Province is empowered by a Co-operative Law currently inforce to formulatea Code of Electoral Regulations for the purpose of electing Regional Committee Membersof Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province, it should be inferred thatthis Code of Electoral Regulations has been formulated in compliance with an authority vestedby the said Co-operative Law and the same should be obeyed irrespective of anything mentionedin this Code of Electoral Regulations.

3.1 For the purposes of the Code of Electoral Regulations, Electorate means the area of influenceof the Society mentioned in the registered by-law of the relevant Society.

3.2 Regional areas for the purpose of electoral work should be specified in terms of the followingprovisions:

a) For the purposes of this Code of Electoral Regulations, an Electorate means the area ofthe Region as stipulated for such a Region by the Board of Directors of the relevantSociety.

b) Except where any Regional area has been amalgamated with an adjoining Regional areaby a Board of Directors, Regional areas mentioned in the Electoral Regulation 3(2) (a)should be taken into consideration for the purposes of this Code of Electoral Regulations,subject to Electoral Regulations 3(2) (c) and 3(2) (d), irrespective of whether or notany Regional area contains a Region.

c) Nevertheless, when the date for entertaining nominations has been notified for electionof Regional Committee Members within 06 months from the date on which decisionwas taken by the Board of Directors to amalgamate one Region with another Region,the Board of Directors should make provisions required to establish separateCommittees for each of such Regional areas so amalgamated, notwithstandingamalgamation of Regional areas.

d) Every other time the Regional areas have been amalgamated subject to matters specifiedin Electoral Regulation 3 (2) (c), the Regional areas amalgamated by the Board ofDirectors should be taken into account for the purposes mentioned in this code ofelectoral regulations.

3.3 A Polling Center for the purposes mentioned in this Code of Electoral Regulations should beestablished in an office situated in a Regional area or a in a Region or a Mini Co-op City or aCo-op City or some other location.

PART II

ELECTORAL REGISTERS OF MEMBERS

4.1 Electoral Registers of all qualified members should be prepared by the Board of Directorsfor each period of six months that ends respectively on 30th June and 31st December everyyear in 04 copies in conformity with the Co-operative Law and the Electoral Regulation 8.1(d)currently inforce. Each such electoral register of members should be prepared, in computertypesetting form, within 10 days from the termination of each of such 06 months period.

4.2 Thereupon, the responsibility of preparing Electoral Registers of Members referred to asElectoral Registers in this Code of Electoral Regulations accurately as stipulated in theElectoral Regulation 4.1 within the specified period is delegated to the Board of Directors,

Electorate, PollingRegion andPolling Centre

Preparation ofelectoral registersof members

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

General Manager and Secretary and such Electoral Registers, certified correct, should havebeen signed by the Chairman, a Director, General Manager and Secretary.

5.1 Electoral Registers should be publicly exhibited in the under mentioned locations during theperiod from 11th to 25th of the month of completion of preparation of Electoral Registers asspecified in the Electoral Regulation 4.1 so as to enable anybody to examine it without makinga payment.

a) Society Headquarters

and

b) At a Grama Niladhari Office and a Public Place to be decided by the Board of Directorswhen there is no Regional office /Region in the Regional office or Region and alsothere is another business place of the same Society within the same Regional area andthere is no such a business place at the same location.

and

c) Provision of Electoral Registers to the Commissioner of Co-operative Developmentand Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province through the websiteof the Society or, where there is no website of the Society, by a Compact Disc (CD) ora Digital Video Disk (DVD) or a Flash (Pen) Drive or E-mail for the purpose of addinginto the website of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western subjectto Electoral Regulation 55.4.

5.2 A notice containing dates and places of exhibition of Electoral Registers, how to submit appealsas per Electoral Regulation 6.1 and Objections as per Electoral Regulation 7.1 should beexhibited and published as follows in such a way as to attract a wide publicity. Such exhibitionand publication of notices should be performed at least 07 days prior to the due date forexhibition of electoral registers.

a) Exhibition of notices in public places within the Electorate (within Regional area).

b) Exhibition in headquarters of the Society and on the notice board of the Office of theAssistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of supervision of the Society.

c) Publishing advertisements in 02 National Daily Newspapers printed in Sinhala and Tamil.

6.1 In case a name of a member has not been included into the electoral register when he isqualified to be included into the electoral register prepared as per electoral regulations 4.1and 4.2, a member shall have the right to make a first appeal to through Secretary to theSociety, to the Board of Directors during the period from 11th to 25th in the month of exhibitingelectoral registers as per the Electoral Regulation 5.1 for the purpose of getting his nameincluded into the Electoral Register. If the Board of Directors, having taken the appeals soreceived into consideration, decides that a certain member’s name should be inserted into theelectoral register, the name in question shall be inserted into the electoral register on orbefore 10th of the month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers.

6.2 When the Board of Directors receives an appeal from a member to insert his name into theelectoral register, the decision of the relevant Board of Directors on such appeal should besent to the member who submitted the appeal, by registered post, within 14 days of the receiptof such appeal by the Society.

Exhibition ofElectoralRegisters

Making appealsto include a nameinto an electoralregister ofmembers

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.20164A

6.3 Following procedure should be adopted on a second appeal submitted by a member.

(a). When a member does not receive a reply for an appeal made by him to the Board ofDirectors to the effect that his name be inserted into the Electoral Register before 15th

of the month following the month of exhibition of electoral registers or when a replyhas been sent by the Board of Directors to the appellant member that his request hasbeen rejected, the affected member may submit a second appeal to the Commissionerof Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-westernProvince for insertion of his name into the electoral register.

(b). Such an appeal should be submitted by the member during the period from 16th to 25th ofthe month following the month of exhibition of electoral registers. The Commissionerof Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-westernProvince should conduct an inquiry into the appeals so received and should intimate hisdecision on the appeal to the appellant and the Board of Directors within 42 days ofreceipt of such appeal, which is final and conclusive.

(c). The Board of Directors should take action to insert the name of a member into theelectoral register within 10 days from the date of intimation of the Commissioner ofCo-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-westernProvince to the Board of Directors that the name of such member should be includedinto the electoral register in view of an appeal made by a member.

7.1 Any member has the right to make written objections to the Board of Directors throughSecretary to the Society on an inclusion of anybody’s name in the electoral register preparedas per Electoral Regulations 4.1 and 4.2. Such an objection should be forwarded by a member,together with reasons for making such an objection, from 11th to 25th in the month of exhibitingelectoral registers as per the electoral regulation 5.1.

7.2 If it is decided to remove the name of anybody subjected to objections from the electoralregister after all objections so received being considered by the Board of Directors within 10days from the final day for submission of objections as per the electoral regulation 7.1, theBoard of Directors should have taken action to follow under mentioned procedure beforeremoval of such a name from the electoral register.

(a). The persons against whom the objections are leveled should be kept informed of theobjections submitted and that the counter-objections, if any, to be submitted againstsuch objections should be forwarded by registered post. The same should be intimatedby the Board of Directors to the persons against whom the objections are leveled on orbefore 05th day of the month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registersand the persons at the receiving end of the objections should be given a period of atleast 14 working days for submission of their counter-objections.

(b). If the Board of Directors decides to remove from electoral register the name againstwhich objections are leveled due to non-submission of counter-objections by suchpersons against whom the objections are levelled or after taking the counter-objectionssubmitted into consideration, such decision by the Board of Directors should be notified,by registered post, to the persons against whom objections are levelled and the memberwho submitted objections before the final day of the month following the month ofexhibition of the electoral registers.

7.3 The matter should be intimated, by registered post, to the member who submitted the objectionwhen the Board of Directors rejects an objection submitted as per the electoral regulation7.1

Submission ofobjections on aname appearing inthe electoralregister ofmembers.

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

and to the member who submitted the objection and to the member who submitted the counter-objection when the counter-objection is accepted as per the electoral regulation 7.2. Suchintimation should be made before the final date of the month following the month of exhibitionof the electoral registers.

7.4 When a member who has submitted objections as per electoral regulation 7.1 against a nameappearing in the electoral register has been intimated that the said objection has been rejectedas per electoral regulation 7.3, or at an instance where no reply has been received even by theend of the month following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers to the effectthat the objection submitted was accepted/rejected, the objection may be referred to theCommissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province.

7.5 When the Board of Directors has intimated, as per electoral regulation 7.2.(b), of removal ofthe name mentioned in the electoral register, or when no reply has been received from theBoard of Directors during a period of time specified in the electoral regulation 7.2.(b) oncounter-objections submitted as per the electoral regulation 7.2.(a), the member against whomthe objection has been levelled may refer an appeal against removal of his name from theelectoral register, to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province.

7.6 The members submitting objections and appeals referred to in electoral regulations 7.4 and7.5 should submit them to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar ofCo-operative Societies, North-western Province within 10 days from the final day of themonth following the month of exhibition of the electoral registers.

7.7 Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province, after making an enquiry into the objections/appeals submitted to him asspecified in electoral regulation 7.6, shall inform his decision thereon within 42 days ofreceipt of such objection/ appeal, to the member who submitted the relevant objection / appealand to the Board of Directors and such decision on the part of Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province will be final.

7.8 When Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,North-western Province has decided the name of a member should be inserted into the electoralregister as per an appeal made by a member in conformity with electoral regulation 7.5 or thatthe name of any member should be removed from the electoral register in keeping with anobjection submitted by a member as per electoral regulation 7.4, the Board of Directors shalltake action to revise electoral registers in conformity with such decision of the Commissionerof Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-westernProvince within 10 days from the date of its intimation to the Board of Directors.

7.9 When the electoral registers have to be revised as per the electoral regulation 7.2(b), suchrevision of electoral registers should be performed during the period specified at the electoralregulation 7.8 for revision of electoral registers.

8.1 Electoral registers should be submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives incharge of the Division for his certification in conformity with provisions under mentioned.

(a). With regard to the Regions for which appeals as per electoral regulations 6.1 and 6.3 (a)or objections as per electoral regulations 7.1 and 7.4 have not been submitted, the

Submission ofelectoral registersto theCommissioner

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.20166A

electoral registers prepared as per electoral regulation 4.2 should, in triplicate, besubmitted, through the Divisional Officer of Co-operative Development in charge ofthe Society, to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division.

(b). The revised electoral registers of Regions should be prepared in 04 copies as perelectoral regulations 6.1, 6.3 (c), 7.2 (b), 7.8 and 7.9, and 03 copies of such electoralregisters certified true and signed by the Chairman, a Director, the General Managerand Secretary, should be submitted through the Divisional Officer of Co-operativeDevelopment in charge of the Society to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operativesin charge of the Division.

(c). Electoral registers referred to at regulations (a) and (b) above should be submitted tothe Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division before the passageof 04 months from the date of termination of the exhibition of electoral registers as perelectoral regulation 4.1. The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of theDivision, having certified 03 copies of electoral registers so submitted should keep acopy at his possession and return the other 02 copies of the same to the Board ofDirectors.

(d). Such electoral registers should conform to the format of the “electoral register”appearing in a circular to be issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

(e). Also, certificates signed by the Chairman, a Director, the General Manager and theSecretary to the effect that the electoral registers have been prepared as per provisionscontained in this Code of Electoral Regulations, together with electoral registers to besubmitted as per Electoral Regulations 8.1 (a) and 8.1 (b) should be submitted to theAssistant Commissioner in charge of the Division. Such certificate should conform tothe format of the “certificate” appearing in first Schedule of this Code of ElectoralRegulations.

8.2 Action should be taken to elect Regional Committee Members for each Region in keepingwith electoral registers certified, as per electoral regulation 8.1.(c), by the AssistantCommissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division or/and, in the form of electoralregisters prepared as per electoral regulation 8.3.

8.3 When the Regional Officer of Co-operative Development in charge of the Society or anyother officer has reported that any person / persons in charge of the responsibility ofpreparation, certification or revision of electoral registers as per this Code of ElectoralRegulations has / have neglected his/their responsibility, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division should adhere to the following provisions.

(a).When the Board of Directors refrains from preparation of electoral registers as per electoralregulation 4.1 or refrains from revision of electoral registers as per electoral regulations6.3 (c) and 7.8 or refrains from certification of electoral registers as per electoralregulation 8.1 or refrains from submission of electoral registers to the AssistantCommissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division, the Assistant Commissionerof Co-operatives in charge of the Division should take action to get electoral registersprepared by an officer / officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western, certify them and elect members for Regional Committees in keeping withelectoral registers so certified. Electoral registers so certified should be submitted byAssistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development to the Chief Polling Officer atleast 03 days prior to the due date for entertaining nominations of the Society.

Electoral registersto be used forelection ofRegionalCommittees

Action to betaken by theCommissionerwhen the Societyis not preparingelectoral registers

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

(b). All employees of the Society including its Board of Directors, General Manager andthe Secretary are bound to provide the officer / officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western with all facilities required for preparation ofelectoral registers as per paragraph (a) above. The relevant Society should also bear allexpenses to be made for preparation of electoral registers.

(c). At an instance when any electoral duty specified in the electoral regulation 8.3 has beenneglected, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division shouldmake arrangements to initiate performance of relevant electoral work through his officerswithin a maximum period of 21 days from the final date stipulated by this Code ofElectoral Regulations for performance of electoral work so neglected.

8(d). Soon after getting electoral registers prepared through his officers, the AssistantCommissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should inform the sameimmediately to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western. Accordingly, the Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western should determinethe days and places for exhibition of such electoral registers, submission of appeals toinsert a name not included in the electoral register or submission of objections on aname already included and he should make public advertisements containing particularson such purposes in at least 02 national newspapers.

8.4 One out of the 02 copies of electoral registers sent certified by the Assistant Commissionerof Co-operatives in charge of the Division as per the electoral regulation 8.1 (c), should besubmitted in writing by the Board of Directors to the Chief Polling Officer at least 03 daysprior to the date specified for entertaining nominations. The Chief Polling Officer shouldhand over the electoral registers submitted to him as per electoral regulation 8.1 (c) or 8.3 (a)to the Polling Officer / Assistant Polling Officer in charge of the Center at least before 7.00a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations or the day of election.

8.5 Once the electoral duties are over either on the day of entertaining nominations or day ofelection, the electoral register should be handed over by the Polling Officer / Assistant PollingOfficer in charge of the Center to the Chief Polling Officer. The Chief Polling Officer shouldhand over electoral registers received as per electoral regulation 8.4, to the Secretary to theSociety and the electoral registers received as per electoral regulation 8.3 (a) to the AssistantCommissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division within 03 days after the day ofentertaining nominations when no election was held by the use of such electoral registers andwithin 03 days after the day of election in case an election was held.

8.6 The Secretary is entrusted with the responsibility of keeping safely in his charge at least for aperiod of 01 year the electoral registers submitted to the Secretary by the Chief PollingOfficer as per electoral regulation 8.5. The Chief Polling Officer should keep safely theelectoral registers submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge ofthe Division for a period of at least 06 months and the Assistant Commissioner in charge ofthe Division may do whatever is deemed proper at his discretion on such registers after 06months if no litigation has been initiated on the election.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.20168A

PART III

PRE-ELECTORAL ORGANIZATIONS

9.1 Following information should be submitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operativesin charge of the Division by Secretary to the Society 03 days prior to the date of terminationof the term of office of the General Assembly of the Society.

(a). The names of Polling Centers (Regions) where the Election is scheduled to be held andthe number of member voters attached to the Region as per electoral regulation 4.1should be notified to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of theDivision by the Secretary to the Society 03 months prior to the date of termination ofthe term of office of General Assembly of the Society.

(b). When any polling area has no Region, the name of the Regional General Assemblyestablished, the name of Polling Center expected to be established, its address and thenumber of member voters of the Regional General Assembly should be notified to theAssistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division by the Secretary tothe Society in keeping with matters specified in electoral regulation 3(2) and paragraph(a) above.

9.2 The date of entertaining nominations for election of Committee Members and the date ofelection should be stipulated, as per the registered by-law, by the Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western province. Commissionerof Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-westernprovince also exercises powers to revise the dates so specified without contravening the by-law. Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,North-western province should notify the dates to be specified or revised as per this electoralregulation to the Assistant Commissioners in charge of the Division.

9.3 The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division should intimate the dates pertaining toentertaining nominations and election as per electoral regulation 9.2. to the Chief PollingOfficer appointed as per electoral regulation 10.1 (a) and to all Polling Officers in charge ofCenters, to Polling Officers, to Assistant Polling Officers and to the Secretary to the Societyas per electoral regulations 10.1 (a) and (b).

10.1 A Chief Polling Officer and other Polling Officers for a Society should be appointed by theAssistant Commissioner of Co-operatives as mentioned below.

(a). The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division should appoint a Chief PollingOfficer at least a month before the date of entertaining nominations in Polling Centerssituated in a Division with respect to a Division mentioned in the electoral regulation3.1.

(b). For a polling area mentioned in electoral regulation 3.1, a Polling Officer in charge ofthe Center and a number of Assistant Polling Officers to be decided by the AssistantCommissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division as required for the above saidAssistant Polling Officer should be appointed by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division.

Specifying andpostponing theday ofentertainingnominations andthe day ofelection

Appointment ofPolling Officers,powers andresponsibilities ofPolling Officersand steps to betaken on activitiesof Polling Officersfailing to performtheir duties

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

(c). The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division may also appoint a number ofPolling Officers and Assistant Polling Officers required for assistance of the ChiefPolling Officer at his discretion in addition to the Polling Officers in charge of Centersand Assistant Polling Officers.

(d). Letters of appointment for all posts mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of thiselectoral regulation should be issued in accordance with the format “a” of Schedule twoof this Code of Electoral Regulations.

10.2 At an instance when the activities mentioned in the Code of Electoral Regulations can not beperformed further due to death or resignation or an illness of a person appointed to any PollingDivision / Polling area as per electoral regulations (a), (b) and (c) in the course of performingduties mentioned in electoral regulations or any other reason, it is lawful to perform theactivities of the officer who was unable to perform the duties under the Code of ElectoralRegulations by any officer appointed to the same Polling Division or Polling Area under theelectoral regulation 10.1 (a), (b) and (c) until an officer is appointed as per the ElectoralRegulation 10.3 for ensuring uninterrupted continuation of the activities to be performed asper this Code of Electoral Regulations by the above said officer until such time an order isissued on this matter by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division.At such an instance, the post of the officer who failed to perform his duties will be the sameas that of the officer currently performing his duties.

10.3 At such an instance, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Divisionshould take action forthwith either to appoint another officer to the post of the officer whofailed to perform activities specified in the Code of Electoral Regulations or to appoint thesame officer who is performing the duties in that post to it as per electoral regulation 10.2.

10.4 The Chief Polling Officer, Polling Officer in charge of Centers, Polling Officers and AssistantPolling Officers appointed under electoral regulations 10.1 and 10.3 subject to electoralregulation 10.2 may exercise powers specifically entrusted to them in this Code of ElectoralRegulations.

10.5 Chief Polling Officer and other Polling Officers appointed as per electoral regulations 10.1and 10.3 or performing duties as per electoral regulation 10.2 are responsible for regularperformance of electoral activities referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations asmentioned below.

(a). Chief Polling Officer and Polling Officers / Assistant Polling Officers appointed toassist him are responsible to the Commissioner for performance of all electoral workin a proper and transparent manner from the moment the date for entertaining nominationsis notified to the Secretary up to the moment the relevant total result pertaining toelection of members to regional committees are notified to the Commissioner.

(b). Polling Officers in charge of Polling Centers / Assistant Polling Officers are responsibleto the Commissioner and Chief Polling Officer for lawful and transparent performanceof all electoral work from the moment of undertaking nominations in a polling centerup to the moment of notification of election results of that Center to the Chief PollingOfficer.

10.6 All facilities and full co-operation required to the Chief Polling Officer / Polling Officer incharge of the Center / Polling Officers / Assistant Polling Officers for conducting the electionin conformity with this Code of Electoral Regulations should be provided by the entire staffof the Society including the Board of Directors.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201610A

11.1 The Chief Polling Officer should inform the Secretary to the Society about the amount ofnotices required and the date by which the printed forms of such notices should be returnedtogether with the dates on which nominations are entertained, dates on which objections againstsuch nominations are entertained and election held and their times and a specimen notice tobe exhibited for election of Regional Committees containing information of Polling Centerfor conducting election duties, at least 04 weeks before the due date for entertainingnominations in any polling Center.

11.2 It is the responsibility of the Secretary to submit the amount of notices as per the form specifiedat the electoral regulation 11.1 to the Chief Polling Officer on or before the due date.

11.3 The notices submitted by the Secretary to the Chief Polling Officer as per electoral regulation11.2 should be handed over in writing by the Chief Polling Officer to the General Managerdirecting them to be exhibited in the Society headquarters, Polling Center, at populatedlocations within Regional area, Grama Niladhari Offices and branches of Rural Bank and theOffice of the Assistant Commissioner in charge of supervision of the Society. General Manageris entrusted with the full responsibility of exhibiting such notices at specified locations andsubmitting written evidence confirming such exhibition of notices in the said locations.

11.4 It is the responsibility of Chief Polling Officer to make due provisions for exhibition ofnotices to be exhibited as per electoral regulation 11.3 at least since 02 weeks prior to duedate for entertaining nominations and to ensure that such notices are exhibited at the specifiedlocations during the specified period of time.

12.1 Chief Polling Officer should make written directions to the General Manager to supply allother stationery not covered by electoral regulation 11.1, the journal, ballot papers, ballotboxes, cells in which preferences are marked and all forms to be submitted in printed formrequired for the election work in the proper forms, sizes and on days stipulated for them to beprovided by him, at least 03 weeks before the due date for undertaking nominations in anyPolling Center.

12.2 It is the responsibility of the General Manager to provide everything directed for him tosupply by the Chief Polling Officer as mentioned in the electoral regulation 12.1 in due amountsand on or before the due date, to the Chief Polling Officer.

12.3 It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to follow under mentioned procedure onmaterials received as per electoral regulation 12.1.

(a). It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to make due provisions to receivefrom the General Manager everything specified in Electoral Regulation 12.1 at least aweek before the due date for entertaining nominations.

(b). It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to hand over relevant items out ofthose received as per paragraph (a) above to Polling Officers in charge of each center /Assistant Polling Officers on the day of entertaining nominations.

(c). It is the responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to hand over relevant items out ofthose received as per paragraph (a) above to Polling Officers in charge of each center /Assistant Polling Officers on the day of election.

12.4 The Chief Polling Officer should inform the General Manager in writing the strength of staffrequired on each day for the electoral duties of entertaining nominations and election, thenumber of vehicles required together with transportation plan prepared for election days and

Exhibition ofnotices onentertainingnominations andconductingelection.

Provision ofstationery, forms,staff of Society,transport facilitiesand otherrequirementspertaining to theElection

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

minimum amounts of furniture and other items decided to be required in each polling centerat least 02 weeks before entertaining nominations for any polling center.

12.5 It is the responsibility of the General Manager to provide to the Chief Polling Officer thestaff and number of vehicles directed by the Chief Polling Officer as specified for each amountand to provide each Polling Center with the furniture and equipment directed to be available ineach Polling Center on specified days as stipulated in the electoral regulation 12.4

12.6 The Chief Polling Officer should determine the locations to which the staff of the Societyprovided for the Chief Polling Officer for electoral work as per electoral regulation 12.5should be attached and also letters of appointment should be issued by him to everybody inthe staff provided for him. That letter of appointment should conform to the form “a” ofSchedule three of this Code of Electoral Regulations.

12.7 Every item to be handed over to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant PollingOfficer on the day of entertaining nominations as per electoral regulation 12.3 (b) should behanded over in a form complying with the form for handing over stationery and equipmentcontained in a currently valid circular issued as per the electoral regulation 51.1.

12.8 Every item to be handed over to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant PollingOfficer on the day of election as per electoral regulation 12.3 (c) should be handed over in aform complying with the form for handing over stationery and equipment contained in acurrently valid circular issued as per the electoral regulation 51.1.

13.1 Having received the number of Police Officers required for security of each Polling Centerfor the purposes of entertaining nominations and election from the Regional Officer of Co-operative Development at least 01 month prior to the date specified for calling nominations,the Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should request from the SeniorSuperintendent of Police in charge of the area, at least 04 weeks before the date specified forcalling nominations, to provide the required number of Police Officers from Sri Lanka Police.

PART IV

NOMINATIONS

14.1 No member bearing disqualifications making it unable for him to be elected to a RegionalCommittee of a Registered Co-operative Society as per currently valid Co-operative law hasthe right to submit nominations as a candidate at an election held for electing members to aRegional Committee.

14.2 It is the persons who are specified as unable to be elected to a Regional Committee of a Co-operative Society registered in the Code of Co-operative Regulations currently in force, subjectto Co-operative laws currently in force who should be included as persons having no right tosubmit nominations in the notice appearing in electoral regulation 11.1.

15.1 The name of a candidate elected for a Regional Committee should have been proposed by amember of the Society and seconded by another member and the nomination paper should besubmitted in a form which conforms in every way to the form appearing in the electoralregulation 15.4.

15.2 The Candidate, Proposer as well as the Seconder should be persons whose names appear inthe electoral register referred to at the electoral regulation 8.2.

Police securityrequired for theelection

Those who arenot entitled tosubmitnominations

How to preparenominationpapers

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201612A

15.3 The nomination paper should contain also the statements made by every candidate to the effectthat he is willing to appear as a candidate and that he has no disqualifications referred to at theelectoral regulation 14.1 and the statements made by the candidate, proposer and seconder tothe effect that they are members whose names appear in the electoral register of the Regionprepared as specified by electoral regulation 8.2.

15.4 The nomination paper should be prepared in 04 copies. Such nomination paper shouldconform to the form “a” of the Schedule four of this Code of Electoral Regulations.

PART V

ELECTORAL WORK ON THE DAY OF ENTERTAINING NOMINATIONS

16.1 The nomination paper prepared in conformity with electoral regulations 15.1, 15.2, 15.3 and15.4 should be submitted to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant PollingOfficer by one of the three persons of candidate, proposer and seconder referred to at thatnomination paper only during the period from 9.00 a.m. to 10.00 a.m. at the due PollingCenter on the date specified for undertaking nominations for a Region.

16.2 After examining a nomination paper submitted, a Polling Officer in charge of a Center / anAssistant Polling Officer should reject it only at the occasions under mentioned.

(I). At an instance when nominations have been submitted contrary to electoral regulations15.1, 15.2, 15.3 and 15.4.

(II). At an instance when the nomination papers have been submitted in the form mentionedin the electoral regulation 16.5.

16.3 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should makearrangements immediately to publicly exhibit 02 copies of a nomination paper not rejectedby the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer as per electoralregulation 16.2 by sticking them on a suitable location in the Polling Center and securelykeep the remaining 02 copies of the nomination paper in his custody. Work on such stickingof copies of un rejected nomination papers at a suitable place in the Polling Center forexhibition should be completed before 10.01 a.m.

16.4 The nomination papers to be exhibited as per electoral regulation 16.3 should be exhibitedduring the period from 10.01 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. The Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant Polling Officer should take action to remove nomination papers so exhibited after11.00 a.m.

16.5 Nevertheless, no candidate has the right to submit another nomination paper when hisnomination paper has been accepted by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / AssistantPolling Officer. At such a situation, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /AssistantPolling Officer should take action to reject all other nomination papers submitted by suchcandidate except the nomination paper already accepted.

16.6 All particulars of nominations received by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / AssistantPolling Officer should be noted by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / AssistantPolling Officer in a form conforming to the form “a” specified at part i of the journal in acircular currently valid and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

16.7 Particulars of nominations rejected as per electoral regulations 16.2 and 17.2 should be notedby the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer in a form conforming

Accepting andrejectingnominationpapers

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

to the form “b” specified at part i of the journal in a circular currently valid and issued as perelectoral regulation 51.1.

17.1 Any member whose name appears in the electoral register of the Region specified in theelectoral regulation 8.2 may submit, in writing, his objection on any nomination not rejectedby the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer as per electoralregulation 16.2, at the due Polling Center only from 10.01 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. on the dateallocated for undertaking nominations for that Region.

(a). Particulars of all objections received by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant Polling Officer should be noted by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center/ Assistant Polling Officer in a form conforming to the form “c” specified at part i ofthe journal in a circular currently valid and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

17.2 As per electoral regulation 17.1, a member may submit an objection on any nomination onlywith regard to the following.

(a). The candidate having one or more of the disqualifications mentioned at electoralregulations 14.1 and 14.2.

(b). When the name / membership number of the candidate, proposer or the seconder becomesabsent in the electoral register of the Region mentioned in electoral regulation 8.2.

(c). At an instance when a person other than the candidate or proposer or seconder hassubmitted a nomination paper of any candidate to the Polling Officer in charge of theCenter / Assistant Polling Officer.

(d). At an instance when a nomination paper has been submitted in the manner specified inelectoral regulation 16.2.

17.3 If the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer accepts an objection/ objections submitted by a member under electoral regulations 17.2 (b), 17.2 (c) and 17.2(d), the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should reject thenomination pertaining to such objection.

17.4 Having all objections submitted as per electoral regulations 17.1 and 17.2 been sealed, thePolling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should submit suchobjections the same day they were accepted, to the Chief Polling Officer.

17.5 All objections appearing in electoral regulations 17.2 (b), 17.2 (c) and 17.2 (d), should besubmitted by the Chief Polling Officer to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives incharge of the Division within 03 working days from the date of their receipt.

17.6 All objections submitted by members under electoral regulation 17.2 (a) should be sent bythe Chief Polling Officer to the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division within 03working days from the day of undertaking such objections for the purpose of dispatchingthem to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operativeSocieties, North-western Province.

Acceptingobjections

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201614A

17.7 The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should send suchobjections submitted to him by the Chief Polling Officer as per electoral regulation 17.6,together with his observations and recommendations, to the Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province.

17.8 Having conducted an enquiry into the objections received as specified in electoral regulation17.2 (a) and the candidate against whom objections were levelled being given an opportunityto submit his explanations, if the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrarof Co-operative Societies, North-western Province decides that such objections should beaccepted and still the candidate at the receiving end of objections has been appointed as aCommittee Member, the office of Committee Member of such member should be terminatedwith effect from the time of acceptance of the relevant objection by Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province.

17.9 The decision of Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operativeSocieties, North-western Province as specified in the electoral regulation 17.8 is final andconclusive.

17.10 No action should be taken on the following objections submitted by persons and the sameshould be sent by the Chief Polling Officer to the Assistant Commissioner in charge of theDivision. The Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division should keep such objectionsreceived by him in his trust up to passage of 06 months from the date of entertainingnominations. Except at an instance where litigation is in progress before a court of law onsuch objections, all such objections should be destroyed under supervision of the AssistantCommissioner in charge of the Division after 06 months.

(a). Objections submitted by a person whose name does not appear in the electoral registerof the Region mentioned in the electoral regulation 8.2.

18.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant Polling Officer should announce thatcandidates have been elected uncontested to the Committee at following instances.

(a). Even when objections have been received under electoral regulation 17.2 (a) againstany nomination paper, if 05 to 09 nomination papers not rejected by him remain by11.01 a.m. on the day of receipt of such objections, disregarding such objections, thePolling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should declare by anannouncement that candidates of such nominations were elected uncontested.

18.2 The notification stating that candidates have been elected uncontested as per electoral regulation18.1 should be prepared in duplicate. The notification should comply with the form “d”appearing at Part i of the journal contained in the circular effective at the time and issued asper electoral regulation 51.1.

19.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should announce thatno candidate has been elected as a Committee Member for a Region at following instances.

Announcinguncontestedelection ofcandidates

Announcing thatCommitteeMembers werenot elected for theCommittee.

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

(a).(I). When no nomination paper has been submitted

(II). When the number of nomination papers submitted amounts to a number equal toor less than 04

by 10.01 a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations

(b).(I). When the number of valid nomination papers falls below 05 due to rejection ofnomination papers by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant PollingOfficer as per electoral regulations 17.2 (b), 17.2 (c) or 17.2 (d)

by 11.01 a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations

19.2 The announcement to be issued to the effect that no Committee Members were elected forthe Committee should be prepared in duplicate as per electoral regulation 19.1. The notificationshould comply with the form “e” appearing at Part i of the journal contained in the circulareffective at the time and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

20.1 No candidate or any other person has the right to withdraw a nomination paper submitted tothe Polling Officer in charge of the Center / an Assistant Polling Officer.

21.1 In spite of objections received under electoral regulation 17.2 (a) for nomination papers by11.01 a.m. on the day of entertaining nominations, a vote should be held for election ofRegional Committee Members for such a Polling Center when there are more than 09 unrejected nomination papers inclusive of the above said nomination papers subjected toobjections and for this purpose the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant PollingOfficer should take following action.

(a). A preferential number should be allocated by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center/ Assistant Polling Officer for candidates pertaining to un rejected nomination papersas per electoral regulation 21.1.

(b). Preferential numbers pertaining to each candidate should be allocated by drawing lotsand the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should makearrangements to allocate such preferential numbers by using an amount of numbersequal to the number of electoral candidates for drawing lots.

21.2 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should submit to theChief Polling Officer an announcement containing names of each of the electoral candidatesand preferential numbers allocated for them the same day of entertaining nominations.

21.3 The notification containing names of electoral candidates and their preferential numbers tobe submitted to the Chief Polling Officer as per electoral regulation 21.2 should be preparedin duplicate. The notification should comply with the form “f” appearing at Part i of the journalcontained in the circular effective at the time and issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

Withdrawal ofnomination paperof a candidatewho submittednominations

Allocatingpreferentialnumbers

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201616A

PART VI

ELECTION

22.1 The Chief Polling Officer should intimate the Secretary to the Society in writing about thenumber of notifications required and the due date for provision of printed copies of suchnotifications together with names and preferential numbers of candidates, dates and times ofelection and a specimen of the notification to be published regarding election which containsparticulars of polling centers of election, at least 05 days prior to the date due for election inany polling center.

22.2 It is the responsibility of the Secretary to provide the Chief Polling Officer on or before thedue date with names of candidates of each Region submitted to him by the Chief PollingOfficer as per electoral regulation 22.1, with notifications containing preferential numbersallocated for them and the number of notifications stipulated to be provided by separatelyprinting

22.3 The notifications submitted by the Secretary to the Chief Polling Officer should be submitted,in writing, by the Chief Polling Officer to the General Manager regulating them to be exhibitedin the Polling Center, at populated locations in the Regional area, in GramaNiladhari Officesand branches of Rural Bank. The General Manager is entrusted with the full responsibility ofexhibiting such notifications at the specified locations and during specified periods andsubmission of written proof confirming exhibition of such notifications at the said locations.

22.4 It is responsibility of the Chief Polling Officer to make provisions required to exhibitnotifications to be exhibited as per electoral regulation 22.3 at least 03 days prior to the datedue for election and to be confirmed that such notification are exhibited at specified locationsduring the specified period.

23.1 Only in case of death of any candidate / candidates during the period between the time of issueof a preferential number to a candidate / candidates by a Polling Officer in charge of a Center/ an Assistant Polling Officer as per electoral regulation 21.1 and the time of commencementof election, and the Chief Polling Officer has received specific confirmations in proof ofsuch death / deaths, it will be lawful for the Chief Polling Officer to take a following action.

(a). Making arrangements to remove name of the deceased candidate / candidates from thelist and public notification of such removal in the Polling Center.

and

(b). Invalidation of the election in case of a drop of the number of candidates to a numberbetween 05 and 09 pursuant to adherence to paragraph (a) above and announcing that theremaining candidates have been elected uncontested.

or

(c). In case the number of candidates has dropped below 05 owing to adherence to paragraphs(a) above, invalidation of the election and announcing that no candidate has been electedfor such a Region as a Committee Member

or(d). Regular continuation of election if the number of candidates remains equal to or above10 even after adhering to paragraph (a) above.

Exhibition ofnotificationscontaining namesand preferentialnumbers ofcandidates

Death of acandidate whohas submittednominations

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

24.1 The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should appoint aPolling Officer in charge of the Center and a number of Assistant Polling Officers to assisthim for electoral work at each Polling Center. The Polling Officer in charge of the Centeris assigned with the major responsibility on successful completion of election at hisPolling Center.

24.2 The Chief Polling Officer should;

(a). Submit the amount of stationery and equipment mentioned in electoral regulation 12.1,as determined by him, as required for the purpose of election based on the number ofmembers appearing in an electoral register pertaining to a Polling Center to the relevantPolling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer prior tocommencement of election,

(b). Take action required for sufficient provision of the staff of the Society, vehicles, furnitureand equipment stipulated in the electoral regulation 12.4 as determined by him to berequired for ensuring effective performance of the election to each Polling Center,

(c). After receiving the exact numbers of staff to be appointed from the Society to eachPolling Center, issue letters of appointment required for attachment of such staff toeach Polling Center,

(d). Take any action deemed required for ensuring effective performance of the election asper the powers vested in him by this Code of Electoral Regulations,

for electoral purposes at a Polling Center on the day of election.

25.1 A Polling Officer in charge of a Center / Assistant Polling Officer should;

(a). Make provisions required for confirmation of exhibition or/and exhibition as perelectoral regulations 44.1 and 44.2 of notifications referred to at electoral regulations11.3, 16.3, 22.3 and 23.1 (a) of this Code of Electoral Regulations,

(b). Take action, before arrival at the Polling Center, to collect all stationery, ballot papers,ballot boxes, ballot cell covers, equipment, staff and notifications in sufficient amountsfrom the Chief Polling Officer,

(c). Take any action deemed necessary as assigned to him by this Code of ElectoralRegulations in terms of powers vested in him,

for the purpose of ensuring a highly transparent and lawful performance of electoralwork in a Polling Center on the day of election.

26.1 Every ballot paper should conform to form “a” specified in Schedule five of this Code ofElectoral Regulations.

26.2 Every such ballot paper should carry a printed number on its face which should also be printedon the counterfoil of such ballot paper.

26.3 Every ballot paper should have been printed with the preferential numbers of all candidates inthe respective Polling Center.

Facilities to beprovided to thePolling Center

Notifications tobe exhibited in aPolling Centerand materials tobe taken to thePolling Center

Contents to beinserted in a ballotpaper

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201618A

27.1 Only the following persons are authorized to enter into and remain in the premises of thePolling Center from 8.00 a.m. up to the termination of election on the day of election. Noother person is permitted to enter into or remain in the Polling Center during the periodmentioned above. The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officersshould take immediate action to remove any such unauthorized persons.

(a). The Commissioner

(b). Officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western, authorizedby the Commissioner.

(c). Chief Polling Officer, Polling Officer in charge of the Center, Polling Officers, AssistantPolling Officers

(d). Members of the staff of the Society attached, in writing, for duties at the relevant PollingCenter by the Chief Polling Officer.

(e). Manager and an employee of the relevant Region / Mini Co-op City / Co-op City, underthe authority of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center.

(f). Candidates at the Polling Center, members who proposed and seconded their names.

(g). Police Officers attached for electoral duties

(h). Voters (till they cast their vote)

(i). A person who has accompanied a physically handicapped voter (till the voter casts hisvote)

(j). Drivers / Driver Assistants who transported officers to the Polling Center

28.1 Election should commence and be terminated as follows.

(a). Election should commence at 9.00 a.m. on the date specified for the purpose and shouldbe terminated at 4.00 p.m. the same day.

(b). Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officers should take actionto commence and terminate election work at the times specified at paragraph (a) above.

29.1 Before commencement of election, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / AssistantPolling Officer;

(a). Should point out that the ballot box is empty to a voter, candidates, proposers and secondersof such candidates if they had come to the Polling Center at the time of preparation for sealingthe ballot box and, thereupon, should seal the ballot box before 9.00 a.m.

(b). Should seal the ballot box before 9.00 a.m. irrespective of any non-presence of anybodyreferred to at paragraph (a) above at the time of sealing the ballot box.

30.1 Only one ballot paper should be issued to each voter subject to electoral regulation 33.1.

30.2 Anybody whose name appears as a voter in the electoral register prepared as per electoralregulation 8.2 has the right to receive a ballot paper by producing one of the following valid

Those who areauthorised toenter into andremain in a PollingCenter

Period of Election

Sealing the ballotboxes andcommencement ofelection

Issue of ballotpapers

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

identify cards to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer. Howevera person who is producing an identity in such an unclear condition that its photograph can notbe identified and /or the contents printed on it are illegible has no right to receive a ballotpaper.

(a). National Identity Card

(b). Valid Driving License

(c). Valid Passport

(d). Pensioners’ Identity Card issued by the Director of Pensions

(e). Elders’ Identity Card issued by the Secretary to the Region

(f). A valid Identity Card issued to the monks / priests by Ministry of Religious Affairs or aState Department in charge of Religious Affairs

30.3 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center or an Assistant Polling Officer working under hisdirection should issue a ballot paper to a voter reaching him. However, before such an issue ofa ballot paper;

(a). The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should receivean identity card specified at electoral regulation 30.2 and verify whether the name ofthe said Identity Card and the one appearing in the electoral register are the same.

(b). After adhering to the paragraph (a) above, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant Polling Officer should loudly read out the name appearing in the electoralregister handed over to him.

(c). In case an objection is raised on issue of a ballot paper to any voter by a candidate / aproposer or a seconder of a name of a candidate in adhering to paragraph (a) above, thePolling Officer in charge of the Center should decide whether or not a ballot papershould be issued to the voter against whom such an objection was raised.

(d). The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should determine whether a seal of thePolling officer in charge of the Center or an Assistant Polling Officer or any other sealshould be placed on a ballot paper and accordingly, such seal should be placed on allballot papers to be issued to voters.

(e). For easy identification of an issue of a ballot paper to a voter, the Polling Officer incharge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should place a mark in front of the nameof the voter appearing in the electoral register to whom such ballot paper was issued(eg : - ).

31.1 The voter may take action to proceed with the ballot paper provided to him as per electoralregulation 30.3 to the covering cell allocated for marking vote and mark his preference secretlyin such a way as not to be seen by anybody as per electoral regulations 31.2 and 31.3.

31.2 A voter has right to mark a maximum of 09 preferences for 09 candidates in order of a singlepreference to a candidate on the ballot paper issued to him

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201620A

31.3 The voter may cast his vote by marking a cross mark (eg:-X) on the box opposite the preferencenumber of candidates appearing on the ballot paper issued to him.

31.4 Soon after marking his vote, the voter should fold the ballot paper so that the preferencemarked is invisible to anybody, insert his ballot paper to the ballot box placed in front of thePolling Officer in charge of the Center and exit the Polling Center without delay.

32.1 How to mark the preference should be explained to a voter as follows.

(a). When any voter requests the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant PollingOfficer to explain how to mark his preference, such officers may explain such voterhow to mark his preference in such a way as to be audible to everybody.

(b). However, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officershouldmake it a point to refrain from giving any instruction or guidance to a voteramounting to a direct or indirect insinuation to cast or not to cast his vote to any particularcandidate through such explanations.

32.2 When any voter is unable to mark his vote by himself due to blindness or any other physicaldisability the Polling Officer in charge of the Center should mark the ballot paper of the voterbefore an Assistant Polling Officer in the exact manner requested by the voter and thereaftershould also take action to insert such preference marked ballot paper into the ballot box.

32.3 Except as per electoral regulation 32.2, at no other occasion should the Polling Officer incharge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should allow any other person to mark thepreference of a voter or remain at the spot allocated for marking preferences.

33.1 When the ballot paper issued to the voter for casting his vote has turned out to be one that cannot be used as a valid ballot paper due to his inattention, the voter should hand over the ballotpaper used inattentively to the Polling Officer in charge of the Center and request the PollingOfficer in charge of the Center to issue him with a new ballot paper. At such instances, a newballot paper may be issued to the voter at the discretion of the Polling Officer in charge of theCenter.

33.2 Simultaneously with the issue of a new ballot paper as per electoral regulation 33.1 the ballotpaper used inattentively which has been handed over to him by the voter, which will be identifiedas a spoilt ballot paper hereafter in this Code of Electoral Regulations, should be invalidatedand kept safely in his charge. Spoilt ballot papers should not be inserted into the ballot box.

33.3 Only once may a voter submit a spoilt ballot paper and receive a new ballot paper.

34.1 No voter should be issued with a ballot paper after 4.00 p.m., which is the time specified fortermination of election. However, the Polling Officer in charge of the Center should allow allvoters who remain in the Polling center having been issued with ballot papers on or before4.00 p.m. to cast their vote.

34.2 Soon after completion of casting vote by all voters as per electoral regulation 34.1, the PollingOfficer in charge of the Center should prepare a ballot paper account complying with form“a” specified at Schedule six of this Code of Electoral Regulations.

Assisting a voterto mark his vote

Spoilt ballotpapers

Termination of theelection

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

PART VII

COUNTING VOTES

35.1 Votes pertaining to the election should be counted in the same Polling Center where theelection was held.

36.1 As per the electoral regulation 34.2, only the following persons are authorized to enter intoand remain in a Polling Center from the time of termination of election up to the time ofannouncement of election results. No other person except them is permitted to enter into orremain in a Polling Center during the above said period. Polling Officer in charge of theCenter / Assistant Polling Officer should take action to remove from the Polling Center anyunauthorized persons entering into or / and remaining in the Polling Center during the abovementioned period.

(a).The Commissioner

(b).Officers of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western authorizedby the Commissioner

(c).Chief Polling Officer, Polling Officer in charge of the Center, Polling Officers,Assistant Polling Officers

(d).Staff members of Society attached for duties at the relevant Polling Center by theChief Polling Officer by a letter.

(e).The Manager and an employee of the relevant Region / Mini Co-op City / Co-op Cityof the Polling Center, under permission of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center.

(f).Candidates of the Polling Center, Members who proposed and seconded their names.

(g).Police Officers attached for election duties

37.1 Soon after preparing the ballot paper account and confirmation of its accuracy as per electoralregulation 34.2, counting work of the ballot papers in the ballot box / boxes should be started.

37.2 Before the number of votes each candidate has secured is counted by the Counting Officer;

(a). All ballot papers should be taken out by opening the ballot box when there is only oneballot box in the Polling Center. Thereupon, all such ballot papers taken out should becounted.

(b). All ballot papers should be taken out by opening each of the ballot boxes when there aremore than one ballot box in the Polling Center. Thereupon, all such ballot papers takenout should be counted.

(c). It should be ensured that the total number of ballot papers taken by such counting isequal to the number of ballot papers issued to voters appearing in the ballot paper accountprepared as per electoral regulation 34.2

(d). If, for any reason, the number of ballot papres does not tally as per paragraph (c) above,all ballot papers should be re-counted.

Counting center

Persons with rightto be present atthe CountingCenter.

Counting ballotpapers in ballotboxes

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201622A

(e). In case the same result occurs twice in counting ballot papers in the ballot box / boxes,the result obtained at such counting of ballot papers should be deemed correctdisregarding the figures mentioned in the ballot paper account.

38.1 Under mentioned ballot papers should be rejected by the Counting Officer. When the CountingOfficer takes a decision to reject any ballot paper, such decision becomes final.

(a). A ballot paper with no preference marked.

(b). A ballot paper with more than 09 preferences marked.

(c). A ballot paper with no certain indication by the mark the voter has placed on it as towhich candidate the he has marked his preference.

(d). A ballot paper determined to be a fake or forged one by the Counting Officer.

(e). A disfigured ballot paper

(f). A ballot paper decided by the Counting Officer to be rejected for a reason not mentionedabove.

38.2 If there are candidates, proposers and seconders of candidates in the Polling Center, the rejectedballot paper should be indicated to them and the Counting Officer should also state the reasonfor rejecting the ballot paper.

38.3 Soon after rejecting any ballot paper, the Counting Officers should note the words “rejected”clearly on the face of the ballot paper so rejected and place his signature.

38.4 The Counting Officer should keep all rejected ballot papers safely in his charge till submissionto the Chief Polling Officer.

39.1 After confirmation of the number of correct ballot papers contained in the ballot box / ballotboxes as per the electoral regulation 37.2 (c) or 37.2 (e), the ballot papers to be rejected asper electoral regulation 38.1 and the ballot papers valid for counting which, hereinafter, arecalled valid ballot papers, should be separated.

39.2 Thereafter, the Counting Officer should mark separately the number of votes secured by eachcandidate opposite the name of each of them in the form provided for marking votes, by wayof an oblique line [(/)or(\)]appearing in black or blue color.

(a). After marking the total number of votes received through all ballot papers, the totalnumber of votes secured by each candidate should be collected and marked in front ofthe name of each of such candidates.

(b). Thereafter the Counting Officer should prepare an official register of election resultsin a sequential order of the number of votes secured by each of the candidates so thatthe name of the candidate who secured the highest number of votes appears at thebeginning and the name of the candidate who secured the lowest number of votes appearsat the end.

Ballot papers tobe rejected

Counting thenumber of votessecured by eachcandidate

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

39.3 When votes have been received in a manner not mentioned in the electoral regulation 39.2(b),the Counting Officer should adhere to the following to determine the order of candidates.

(a). Order of candidates should be determined by drawing lots at the instances under mentioned.

I. For all candidates when all of them have received the same number of votes

II. For relevant candidates when there are 02 or more candidates with the same number of votesreceived.

(b). When no candidate has secured a single vote, the preferential numbers assigned to each of thecandidates should be applied to determine the order of candidates.

39.4 It is lawful to assign any power or function vested in or assigned to a Counting Officer to anAssistant Polling Officer serving under his supervision and directions and to get such worksperformed by them.

39.5 The determination given by the Counting Officer on any ballot paper as well as on any issuearisen at the counting of votes is final and conclusive.

40.1 Only any candidate present in the Counting Center at the relevant moment, a person proposedor seconded them has the right to request the Counting Officer for a recount of votes beforesigning the prepared results sheet as per electoral regulations 39.2 (b) and 39.3.

40.2 However, only once may a request be made for a recount of votes in any Polling Center as perelectoral regulation 40.1 and the relevant request should be submitted to the counting officerin writing.

40.3 At a recount, the Polling Officer should re-mark in red color the symbol of oblique lineplaced in blue or black color previously on the form of marking votes so as the previous markto be replaced with the cross (X) mark.

40.4 At a recount subject to the electoral regulation 40.3, the Counting Officer should adhere toall provisions contained in electoral regulation 39.2.

40.5 The determination of the Counting officer should be conclusive and final with regard to anymatter arisen on a recount.

40.6 Before making a request for a recount as per electoral regulation 40.1, the person makingsuch a request for a recount should pay the amount specified to be paid at a recount by acurrently valid circular as issued by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development andRegistrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western and receive a receipt. In case the amountspecified at this regulation is not paid at the moment of making the request for recount, thePolling Officer in charge of the Center should not make a recount.

Re-counting votessecured by eachcandidate

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201624A

PART VIII

ANNOUNCEMENT OF ELECTION RESULTS

41.1 Soon after preparation of the official results sheet as per electoral regulation 39.2 (b), 39.3or 40.4, the Counting Officer should take action to announce official results and clearly displaythe names of candidates elected as Committee Members in the Polling Center. However, theCounting Officer should make such an official announcement of the electoral results as follows.

(a). When the number of candidates who secured preferences as per the official resultssheet exceeds 10, the 09 candidates who had scored the highest number of votes shouldbe declared as elected Committee Members. or

(b). If only a number of candidates between 05 and 09 have received votes as per the officialresults sheet, such candidates should be declared as elected Committee Members. or

(c). When no candidate has received any vote as per the official results sheet or only anumber of candidates below 05 have scored any vote, it should be declared that nocandidate has been elected as a Committee Member.

41.2 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center / Assistant Polling Officer should announce officialresults and, where Committee Members have been elected to the Region, should intimate thenames, membership numbers, addresses and a register containing the number of votes secured,to the Secretary to the Society and the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge ofthe Division through the Chief Polling Officer.

41.3 The Secretary to the Society should take action to clearly exhibit in the head office the namesof candidates elected as Regional Committee Members submitted to him by the Chief PollingOfficer.

41.4 The Official Election Results Register and the notification on the candidates elected as referredto at electoral regulation 41.2 should be prepared in duplicate. Such notification shouldconform to form “a” in Part ii of the journal in a currently valid circular issued as per electoralregulation 51.1.

PART IX

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION

42.1 All disruptive events taken place relating to the election in the election center or / and aroundthe premises of election center during the period under mentioned on the days of performingactivities referred to in this Code of Electoral Regulations should be reported through theChief Polling Officer to the Commissioner by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center /Assistant Polling Officer.

(a). All events of disturbance taken place from the time of proceeding to the polling centerto undertake nominations up to the moment of exit from the election center,

(b). All events of disturbance taken place from the time proceeded to the polling center forelection up to the moment of exit from the election center.

Announcement ofofficial results

Reportingdisturbances

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

42.2 The report to be prepared on the events of disturbance as referred to at electoral regulation42.1 (a) should be prepared in duplicate. Such report should conform to form “g” in Part i ofthe journal in a currently valid circular issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

42.3 The report to be prepared on the events of disturbance as referred to at electoral regulation42.1 (b) should be prepared in duplicate. Such report should conform to form “b” in Part ii ofthe journal in a currently valid circular issued as per electoral regulation 51.1.

43.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should take action to control, through policeofficers attached to his polling center, all events of disturbance taking place within the premisesof election center on the day of entertaining nominations or the day of election.

43.2 When the situation of the disturbance has grown to such a level that it can not be kept undercontrol even through police officers, The Polling Officer in charge of the Center shouldinform all particulars to the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar ofCo-operative Societies, North-western Province, or where he can not be contacted, to theAssistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division, and follow instructionsand directions received by them.

44.1 The Polling Officer in charge of the Center should use the Code of Procedure of the PollingOfficer in charge of the Center in performance of electoral work as per this Code of ElectoralRegulations.

44.2 The Code of Procedure of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center containing 02 partscalled journal in this Code of Electoral Regulations should be used as follows.

(i) Part i of the journal- should be used on the day of undertaking nominations.

(ii) Part ii of the journal - should be used on the day of election.

44.3 The minimum particulars to be contained in the journal are given below. At least the minimumparticulars referred to at Schedule seven should be contained in the journal and the journal tobe used by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center should be introduced by a circular to beissued by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operativeSocieties, North-western Province, as per electoral regulation 51.1.

44.4 It is lawful to issue a circular for the purposes of inclusion of a new item into the journal orfor revision or repeal of an item so included at the discretion of the Commissioner of Co-operative Societies and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province, inaddition to the minimum particulars mentioned in Schedule seven, subject to rules specifiedin this Code of Electoral Regulations.

44.5 The journal should be prepared in the form of a book. Separate books should be preparedfor part i and part ii of the journal. The first copy of the forms in the journal should come inwhite color and the second copy in either yellow or pink color.

45.1 All notices and forms stipulated to be printed in this Code of Electoral Regulations shouldbe printed in Sinhala.

Procedure to befollowed in adisturbance

Journal

The medium inwhich notices andforms should beprinted

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201626A

45.2 However, all forms, notices and ballot papers with direct relevance to voters in Polling Centerswith members using Tamil as their mother tongue should be printed in both languages ofSinhala and Tamil.

46.1 This Code of Electoral Regulations has no relevance in filling vacancies of CommitteeMembers occurring during the term of office of Committees after election of RegionalCommittee Members as per this Code of Electoral Regulations or in filling vacancies ofCommittee Members occurring as per this Code of Electoral Regulations. At such instances,the vacancies occurring in Committees should be filled in keeping with the registered by-lawof the Society.

47.1 At an instance of a problem occurred on any matter pertaining to electoral work not referredto in this Code of Electoral Regulations, any person should follow the written directivesmade by Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,North-western Province on such problem arisen. Such directives made by Commissioner ofCo-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Provinceare final and conclusive.

48.1 All expenses to be made on appointment of Regional Committee Members as per this Codeof Electoral Regulations should be incurred by the Society.

48.2 Relevant persons should take action to strictly adhereto all regulations stipulated in thisCode of Electoral Regulations as observable by the Board of Directors or a person in the staffor the Society. Further, where it is not specifically stated in this Code of Electoral Regulationsabout the exact person in the Society who should observe certain rules to be observed by aSociety, the Board of Directors is entrusted with the responsibility of following all suchrules.

48.3 At an instance of non-adherence to a regulation / rules stipulated in this Code of ElectoralRegulations as observable by the Board of Directors, an Officer / Employee of the Societysubject to provisions referred to at the electoral regulation 8.3, the same should be intimatedforthwith, in writing, to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Divisionand Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,North-western by the Regional Officer of Co-operative Development in charge of the Societyor the Chief Polling Officer. Then the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division, oninstructions of the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operativeSocieties, North-western, should take action necessary to perform the functions neglectedby the Board of Directors / Officers / Employees for unhindered continuation of electoralwork. The Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division should takeaction to initiate the relevant electoral work within a maximum period of 14 days from thefinal day stipulated by this Code of Electoral Rules for performance of electoral work soneglected under electoral regulation 8.3 (c).

(a). Nevertheless, at a time it is observed that the electoral work referred to at this Code ofElectoral Regulations can not be performed on due dates in case the neglected electoralwork were initiated within 14 days as specified in this electoral regulation, the AssistantCommissioner in charge of the Division should take action necessary to initiate relevantelectoral work within a duration of less than 14 days.

Irrelevance of theCode of ElectoralRegulations to fillvacancies ofCommitteeMembersoccuring incourse of theoffice of RegionalCommittees

Procedure to befollowed withreference tomatters notreferred to in theCode of ElectoralRegulations

At an instance ofnon-adherence toa regulation /rules stipulated inthe Code ofElectoralRegulations bythe Board ofDirectors andStaff of theSociety

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

48.4 The Society is committed to pay all expenses to be incurred by the Department of Co-operativeDevelopment, North-western due to its work done in conformity with electoral regulations8.3 or / and 48.3. If the Society neglects making such payments, the Commissioner is authorizedto settle such payments from any amount of money payable to the said Society by theDepartment of Co-operative Development, North-western.

49.1 It is the Polling Officer in charge of the center who functions as the officer in charge of thepolling center on respective days who should perform duties as the officer in charge of electionwork on the day of entertaining nominations, as the officer in charge of the election withregard to the election on the day of election and as counting officer with regard to countingvotes and announcement of results.

49.2 At times of change of the designation of the Polling Officer in charge of the Center as statedabove, the duties and designations of the staff attached to the Polling Officer in charge of theCenter should also change accordingly.

50.1 Amending an Electoral Regulation contains addition of any new electoral regulation / Schedule/form to this Code of Electoral Regulations or revision, repeal of any valid electoral regulation/ schedule / a form referred to at a schedule.

50.2 An electoral regulation should be amended only by publishing the same in a gazette byCommissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western.

51.1 It is lawful for Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operativeSocieties, North-western to issue instructions, rules, forms and checklists not pertaining to aSchedule subject to electoral regulations 44.2 and 44.3 to under mentioned persons onprocedures, by-laws to be followed to ensure a higher level of regularity and transparency inperformance of functions stipulated by this Code of Electoral Regulations and mattersincidental thereto.

(a). Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division, Chief PollingOfficer, Polling Officers in charge of the Centers, Polling Officers and Assistant PollingOfficers

(b). Board of Directors, General Manager and Secretary

51.2 Nevertheless, provisions specified in a circular issued as per the specifications in the ElectoralRegulation 51.1 should never be inconsistent with a provision contained in a regulation in thisCode of Electoral Regulations.

51.3 No instruction, rule, form or a checklist contained in a circular issued as per the electoralregulation 51.1 needs to be considered as an amendment to an electoral regulation of thisCode of Electoral Regulations.

51.4 However, it should be taken into account that provisions and forms contained in a circularissued in conformity with electoral regulation 51.1 will be as effective and valid for electoralwork as an electoral regulation specified in this Code of Electoral Regulations.

Officers who shouldperform duties ofthe Officer incharge of Electoralwork, Officer incharge of Election,Counting Officer

Amending anelectoralregulation

Instances whenthe Commissioneris authorized toissue instructionsand directives bycirculars

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201628A

52.1 Anytime a provision contained in a Co-operative Society Act / Charter, a Code or Regulationsof Co-operative Societies or an amendment thereof contravenes a provision contained in anyelectoral regulation contained in this Code of Electoral Regulations, the provisions of thecurrently valid Co-operative Society Act / Charter, a Code or Regulations of Co-operativeSocieties or amendments thereof should be effective over and above provisions of the abovesaid electoral regulation.

53.1 If no litigation has been initiated on the election or no complaint has been received, theSecretary of the Society is entrusted with the responsibility of safekeeping any document /form pertaining to electoral work of the Society submitted to the Secretary to the Society bythe Chief Polling Officer / Polling Officers in charge of the Centers / Polling Officers /Assistant Polling Officers at least for a period of 01 year with effect from the date oftermination of electoral work. However, the Secretary to the Society is also entrusted withthe responsibility of safekeeping all documents/forms pertaining to the election at least for aperiod of 06 months from the termination of activities relating the litigation/complaint whenlitigation has been commenced or a complaint received on the said election.

53.2 If no litigation has been initiated on the election or no complaint has been received, theAssistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division is entrusted with theresponsibility of safekeeping any document / form pertaining to electoral work of the Societysubmitted to the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Division by theChief Polling Officer / Polling Officers in charge of the Centers / Polling Officers / AssistantPolling Officers at least for a period of 06 months with effect from the date of termination ofelectoral work. However, the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of the Divisionis also entrusted with the responsibility of safekeeping all documents/forms pertaining to theelection at least for a period of 06 months from the termination of activities relating thelitigation/complaint when litigation has been commenced or a complaint has been receivedon the said election.

54.1 For regular performance of electoral duties referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations,checklists mentioned in Schedule 8 should be used to clearly identify durations within whichsuch electoral duties should be performed and persons responsible for their performance.

(a). Only when it is observable that there is a difference between the period of time duringwhich any electoral work referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations has to becompleted and the periods of time referred to at the checklists in Schedule 8 in relationto the same electoral work, it is lawful to abide by periods of time corresponding to thepurpose as referred to at Schedule 8 as valid in performance of electoral work over andabove any rule stipulated with regard to periods of time pertaining to such electoralwork at any other place in this Code of Electoral Regulations.

(b). It is lawful to supervise the performance of any electoral work referred to at Schedule 8by persons stipulated by the said Schedule in the manner stipulated in it and to makepertinent provisions expeditiously for proper performance of relevant electoral workthrough persons responsible for such performance when it is observed that the Board ofDirectors of the Society / Chairman / a Director / the General Manager / Secretary areneglecting any electoral work referred to at this Code of Electoral Regulations and ifeven after taking such steps, it is observed that the relevant person / persons are neglectingperformance of electoral work, to keep the Commissioner of Co-operative Developmentand Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western and the Assistant Commissionerof Co-operatives in charge of the Division informed of the same without delay, and it isthe responsibility of the relevant Supervisor.

Instances whencertain lawsbecome effectiveover regulationscontained in theCode of ElectoralRegulations

Period andresponsibility ofsafekeepingdocumentspertaining toElection.

Using checklistsfor electoral work

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

55.1 It is lawful to for the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar ofCo-operative Societies, North-western Province, to take any action or make a direction whichis not inconsistent with provisions of this Code of Electoral Regulations and is understood byhim to be suitable for a specific period of time through a paper advertisement for the purposeof implementation of provisions in this Code of Electoral Regulations or of makingadministrative changes required for the same purpose during the year of publication of thisCode of Electoral Regulations in the Gazette.

55.2 If the By-law of any Society contains a rule explaining that Regional Committees should beelected according to a Code of Electoral Regulations repealed by the Electoral Regulation56.1 with a specific reference to its title, Gazette number and date, the said repealed Code ofElectoral Regulations should become further valid and effective only for electoral work ofsuch a Society

(a). However, validation of a repealed Code of Electoral Regulations for a certain Societyas referred to at the electoral regulation 55.2 will be effective only for a maximumperiod of a year to come with effect from the date this code of electoral regulationsbecame effective for North-western Province.

55.3 In case of a difficulty arisen in implementing any electoral work following the code of electoralregulations repealed by the electoral regulation 56.1 together with an electoral work containedin this code of electoral regulations by the effective date of this code of electoral regulationsfor North-western Province, it is lawful for the Commissioner of Co-operative Developmentand Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province to adhere to electoralregulation 51.1.

55.4 Irrespective of whatever mentioned in electoral regulations 5.1 (c), when it appears to theCommissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province that there is any practical difficulty in following such electoral regulations,it is lawful for him to take action to temporarily suspend operation of rules contained in suchelectoral regulations with respect to a certain Society for a maximum period of 02 years witheffect from the date this Code of Electoral Regulations became effective for North-westernProvince.

56.1 Regulations on Election of a Regional Committee in a Multipurpose Co-operative Societyand Colombo-North and Colombo-South Co-operative Societies as published in the GazetteExtraordinary Number 297/7 of 28.12.1977 of the Republic of Sri Lanka and the revisedregulations published by amending those regulations in the Gazette Extraordinary number707/14 of 27.03.1992 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Regulationson Election of Regional Committees in Co-operative Societies in North-western Provincepublished in the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) number 1906/44 of 19.03.2015of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka are hereby repealed with effect from thedate of Gazette Extraordinary of this Code of Electoral Regulations. Such repealed regulationswill be called Repealed Code of Electoral Regulations in this Code of Electoral Regulations.

56.2 However it should be admitted that provisions and schedules of the above said repealed codeof electoral regulations will remain further valid and effective only for all facts, statements,documents, certified copies and litigations remaining before the Board of Directors of aMultipurpose Co-operative Society of North-western Province or Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western Province ora court of law on electoral work by the effective date of this Code of Electoral Regulations,with no prejudice whatsoever to the matters arisen or/and decided under a repealed code ofelectoral regulations referred to at electoral regulation 56.1 above.

Interim provisions

Repeal of oldelectoralregulations

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201630A

57.1 If no different meaning is required on the words in this Code of Regulations;

(i). Society means; a Multipurpose Co-operative Society pertaining to the election registeredunder a valid Co-operative Law.

(ii). Member, Region, Regional Committee Member, Regional Committee, Regional area,General Assembly, Chairman, Vice Chairman, Director, Board of Directors, GeneralManager, Secretary and area of Society means; the same meaning rendered for them inthe registered By-law of Society.

(iii). Officers, Employees and Staff of Society means; the employees under the meaningreferred to at the Charter of the Commission of Co-operative Employees, North-westernProvince.

(iv). Commissionermeans; Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar ofCo-operative Societies, North-western Province, Deputy Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment, an Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development.

(v). Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division means; Assistant Commissioner ofCo-operative Development in charge of an office of the Assistant Commissioner ofCo-operatives established in North-western Province in charge of supervisoryresponsibility of Society.

(vi). Regional Officer of Co-operative Development means ; an officer of the Departmentof Co-operative Development, North-western, appointed by the Assistant Commissionerof Co-operative Development in charge of the Division to work in charge of supervisoryfunctions in Society.

(vii). Chief Polling Officer means; an officer of the Department of Co-operative Development,North-western entrusted with the performance of and bearing the key responsibility ofthe duties of Chief Polling Officer of the Society as stipulated in the Code of ElectoralRegulations.

(viii). Polling Officer in charge of the Center means; an officer of the Department of Co-operative Development, North-western in charge of electoral work in a center of theSociety and entrusted with the key responsibility of such duties.

(ix). Polling Officer and Assistant Polling Officer means ; an officer of the Department ofCo-operative Development, North-western appointed by the Assistant Commissionerof Co-operatives in charge of the Division for the purpose of assisting the Chief PollingOfficer or/and Polling Officer in charge of the Center in Society.

(x). that the words in masculine gender will also include words in feminine gender asapplicable.

(xi). that the words in singular form also mean the plural form and vice-versa.

(xii). Electoral work means; all official work pertaining to the election performed/to beperformed from the date specified for preparation of electoral registers in each Regionof the Society up to the moment the relevant officers referred to at this Code of ElectoralRegulations notify the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the Division and Secretaryto the Society the official electoral results to the effect of election or non-election ofall Regional Committee Members.

Definition

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

(xiii). an electoral regulation means; a Section contained in the Code of Electoral Regulations,aSub-section, paragraph and a schedule thereof.

(xiv). Code of Electoral Regulations means; a combination of the entirety of electoralregulations, Schedules and forms contained in schedules.

(xv). Co-operative law effective during the current period means; an Act/Charter of Co-operative Societies, a Code of Regulations of Co-operative Societies or any law enactedtherefor as applicable for North-western Province.

(xvi). A printing means; a printing made by any printing machine other than a Roneo machine.

(xvii). Voter means; any member whose name is inserted as a voter in the electoral registerreferred to at the electoral regulation 8.2.

(xviii). Polling Center means; a place for undertaking nominations and objections as well as aplace where a voter casts his vote, votes so cast by voters are counted and results areissued.

(xix). Polling Center premises means; the building where the polling center is situated, itsland and also other buildings on such land.

(xx). Gazette means; the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

57.2 Only the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies,North-western Province is authorized to define any electoral regulation or a word or a letteror a figure or a symbol contained in an electoral regulation of this Code of Electoral Regulationsand such a definition made by him is final and conclusive.

58.1 In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts in this Code of ElectoralRegulations, Sinhala text should prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail at aninconsistency.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201632A

LIST OF SCHEDULES

ScheduleName of the schedulePartElectoralOrder

Schedule 1Certificate to be furnished by the Society in submission ofElectoral Register to the Assistant Commissioner ofCo-operatives in charge of the Division.ii8.1 (e)

Schedule 2The letters of appointment to be issued to Election OfficersForm “A”by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operativesiii10.1 (d)

Schedule 3Letters of appointment to be issued to staff of the SocietyForm “A”by the Chief Polling Officeriii12.6

Schedule 4Nomination sheetForm “A”iv15.4

Schedule 5ballot sheetForm “A”vi26.1

Schedule 6ballot sheet accountForm “A”vi34.2

Schedule 7minimum facts to be contained in a journalix44.3

Schedule 8check lists (a,b,c,d)ix54.1

SCHEDULE 1 - II – 8.1 (e)

Specimen certificate to be issued by the Society in submission of Electoral Registers to the Assistant Commissionerof Co-operatives

........................................................................................................................................................................................................

Through the Co-operative Development Officer ............................. ,

To Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development ...................................... ,

Submission of Electoral Registers of Regional Multi-purpose Co-operative society Ltd. of.............................…………………………………...................................................…. for certification.

……….............................. Electoral Registers, in triplicate, of the under mentioned Regional Societies of the………………………….............. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd., prepared as per Electoral Regulations 8.1 (a)/8.1 (b) * and 8.1 (d) of the Code of Electoral Regulations for election of Regional Committee Members of the Co-operative Societies of the North –Western Province, as published in Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of 20………, are submitted to you herewith for certificationunder the Electoral Regulation No. 8.1 (c).

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

02. Particulars of the Electoral Registers submitted

S/No.Name of the No. of theAs mentioned in the Electoral Register,RegionalRegionalNo. of names S/No. Membership Nos Page NosSocietySocietyof membersfromtofromtofromto

03. We affirm that,

(a)Names and membership numbers of all members qualified to be included have been incorporated,(b)Names and membership numbers of members as mentioned in membership applications have been included,(c)No. name of a member with entrance qualifications by law has been omitted,(d)No. name of a member without entrance qualifications has been included,(e)No. false name has been included, and(f)No. false information has been included

into the above mentioned Electoral Registers as per rules of the Co-operative Law, Registered By-Law and Codeof Electoral Regulations currently in force......................... ......................................................................SecretaryGeneral ManagerChairman/Vise ChairmanDirector……... 20 ………... 20 ………... 20 ………... 20 …

SCHEDULE 2- (III – 10.1)

Specimen letters to be issued by the Assistant Commissioner of Co-operatives in charge of Regions to the Chief PollingOfficer, Polling Officer in Charge of the Centers, Polling Officers and Assistant Polling Officers.

specimen letter of appointment of the Chief Polling Officer (10.1 (a) )

My ref. : NWP/date :...................20......Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................................(mention the post held in Co-operative Department)

Appointment for Election Duties

I hereby appoint you as the Chief Polling Officer in charge of election duties for election of Committee Members of theRegion for year 20………….. of the Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd…………………………….., in keepingwith powers vested in me by the Election rule 10.1 (a) of the Code of Regulations of Co-operative Elections for electionof Committee Members for Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province as publishedin the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of………….2006.

..................................(mention the name)Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development…………………………………………………..CC :-

1.Comm. of Coop. Dev./R. (North-western)- for kind information2.Secretary, Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. – FNA &Info.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201634A

Specimen Letter of Appointment of the Polling Officer/Asst. Polling Officer in Charge of Center* {10.1 (b)}

My ref. : NWP/Date : ................20.........Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................................................(mention the post held in the Co-operative Department)

Appointment for Election Duties

I hereby appoint you as the Officer in Charge of Polling Center/ Assistant Polling Officer* of …………………………Polling Center on the date of undertaking nominations/ election * in year ……………….of ………………………………..Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.,in keeping with powers vested in me by the Election rule 10.1 (b) of the Code ofRegulations of Co-operative Elections for election of Committee Members for Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operativeSocieties in North-western Province as published in the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of ………….2016.

..................................(mention the name)Asst. Commissioner of Co-operative Development…………………………………………………..

CC:-

1.Chief Polling Officer, ………………………. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. – FNA & Info

*cut off unnecessary words

Specimen of a Letter of Appointment of Polling Officers/ Assistant Polling Officers appointed to assist the ChiefPolling Officer {10.1 (C)}

My ref. :NWP/Date :................. 20........Mr. / Mrs. /Miss.......................................................(mention the post held in Co-operative Department)

Appointment for Election Duties

I hereby appoint you as a Polling Officer / Assistant Polling Officer* to assist Chief Polling Officer on the dates ofElection work / on the date of accepting nominations / on the date of Election* for duties of Election for electingCommittee Members of the Region for year 20…….. of ……………………………………………… Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. in keeping with powers vested in me by the Election rule 10.1 (c) of the Code of Regulations ofCo-operative Elections for election of Committee Members for Regions of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies inNorth-western Province as published in the Gazette Extraordinary (Provincial Councils) of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka no. ………… of ………….2016.

..................................(mention the name)

Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development…………………………………………………..

Copy to:-

1.Chief Polling Officer, ………………………………Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. - FNA & Info.

*cut off unnecessary words

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE 3 - (III – 12.6 )

Specimen of a Letter of Appointment to be issued by the Chief Polling Officer to the staff of Society.

Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. .......................................................(mention the post held in Society)

Attachment for Polling Center Duties

I appoint you hereby to assist the Officer in Charge of the Center at the Election work to be carried out at the……………………………………….. Region / Polling Center on the date of accepting nominations / election* of……………….. 20 ………… for election of Committee Members for the Region of ………………………………. ofthe ………………………………………… Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. in keeping with powers vested in meby the Election rule 12.6 of the Code of Regulations of Co-operative Elections for election of Committee Members forRegions of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North-western Province as published in the Gazette Extraordinary(Provincial Councils) of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. ………… of ………….2016.

02. You should only perform duties assigned to you by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center from the timeyou report to the Polling Center for duties up to the time you are released from duties at the Polling Center.

..................................(mention name of the Chief Polling Officer)Chief Polling Officer…………………………………………………. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.………………. 20 ……….

Copy to :-

1.Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ……………………………………………………… - FNA & Info.Polling Officer in charge of the Center ………………………………….. Polling Center

*cut off unnecessary words

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201636A

SCHEDULE 4 - (IV – 15.4 )

Specimen of a Nomination Sheet - Form ‘A’

NOMINATION SHEET 1

1. Name and address of the Society:……………………………………….. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.............................................................................................................................................................................................

2. Name of the Region : .......................................................................................................................................................

3. Name and address of Polling Center : ..................................................................................................................................

4. particulars of candidate, proposer and seconder :...........................................................................................................

particularscandidateproposerseconder

full name

NIC No.

age (years)

address

membership No.

serial No. in Election

Register

declaration

signature

date202020

name of the person presenting the nomination paper: signature:

to be filled by the Polling Officer in charge of the Center Time of submission of the nomination sheet : .. p.m.Specimen of a Nomination Sheet - Form‘A’

I do hereby give my consent toappear as a candidate of the Electionto be held for the purpose of electingCommittee Members to theCommittee in .......... Region.Further, I do hereby certify that myname appears in the electoralregister of this Region prepared asstated at the Regulation 8.2 of theCo-operative Code of Regulations forelection of Regional CommitteeMembers of the Multipurpose Co-operative Societies in North WesternProvince as published in the GazetteExtraordinary (Provincial Councils)No. ....... of .................. 2016 of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka and I have no disqualificationsblocking my appointment as aCommittee Member as stated atElection Regulation 14.1 and that allparticulars I have mentioned in thisnomination sheet are accurate

I do certify that theparticulars mentioned aboveare accurate. Further, I, beinga member whose nameappears in the electoralregister prepared as stated atthe Regulation 8.2 of the Co-operative Code of Regulationsfor election of RegionalCommittee Members of theMultipurpose Co-operativeSocieties in North WesternProvince as published in theGazette Extraordinary(Provincial Councils) No........ of .................. 2016 ofthe Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka, dopropose that Mr./Mrs./Miss........................ ofmembership No. .............should be appointed as amembers in Committee of.............. Region.

I do certify that theparticulars mentioned aboveare accurate. Further I, beinga member whose nameappears in the electoralregister prepared as stated atthe Regulation 8.2 of the Co-operative Code of Regulationsfor election of RegionalCommittee Members of theMultipurpose Co-operativeSocieties in North WesternProvince as published in theGazette Extraordinary(Provincial Councils) No........ of .................. 2016 ofthe Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka, dosecond the proposal made tothe effect that Mr./Mrs./Miss......................... ofmembership No. .............should be appointed as amembers in Committee of.............. Region.

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE 5 - (VI – 26.1)

Specimen Ballot Paper - Specimen “A”

Serial No. :

counterfoil..............................................................Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd.

Name of the Polling Center :

Polling Center................................................................

Signature of Polling Officer/Assistant Polling Officer in charge of Center :.......................

........................Date of election :...................20.........

Ballot Paper

123456789

101112131415161718

192021222324252627

282930313233343536

For Official Stamp (Seal)

Serial No.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201638A

SCHEDULE 6 - ( VI – 34.2 )

.............................................. Multipurpose Co-operative Society Ltd. - year...............

Ballot paper account of ...................................................... Polling center

ReceiptsamountIssued / spoilt/ balanceamount

No. of un-used ballotpapers remained intrust of Officer incharge of the Centerprior tocommencementof election

totaltotal

I certify that the particulars above mentioned are accurate.

Signature of the Officer in charge of the center: ....................................date:............20.............

time : ..................

name of the officer in charge of the Center : Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ............................................................

Ballot papers issued tovoters (excluding spoiltballot papers)

No. of spoilt ballot papers

No. of un-used ballot papers

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE 7 - (IX – 44.3)

Minimum information to be included in Parts I & II in the Journal of the Officer in Charge of the Polling Center

Minimum information to be included in Parts I & II

Part IPart IIFor the day of undertaking nominationsFor the day of election

01Basic information(name and address of theSociety, name of the Region, name and addressof Polling Center, particulars of the staff attachedto Polling Center and other basic information)

02Particulars of defects, if any, contained indocuments, stationery, forms, notices andequipment undertaken for election purposes byPolling Officer in charge of the Center

03Particulars of nominations received

04Particulars of rejected nominations

05Particulars of objections received

06Particulars of uncontested appointments

07Particulars on election of Committee Members

08Particulars of names of candidates and theirpreference numbers

09Particulars of disturbances

10Names and signatures of the Polling Officer,Assistant Polling Officer in charge of the Center

01Basic information(name and address of the Society,name of the Region, name and address of PollingCenter, particulars of the staff attached to PollingCenter and other basic information)

02Particulars of defects, if any, contained indocuments, stationery, forms, notices andequipment undertaken for election purposes byPolling Officer in charge of the Center

03Time of commencement of the Election

04Time of conclusion of the Election

05Specimens of stamps placed on ballot papers/specimens of signatures, names of signatories andtheir particulars pertaining to the Election

06Ballot paper account prepared in keeping withSchedule 6

07Particulars on the number of votes secured by eachcandidate

08Particulars of Committee Members elected

09Particulars of disturbances

10Names and signatures of the Polling Officer,Assistant Polling Officer in charge of the Center

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201640A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1)

(a). Checklist for Electoral Duties to be performed by the Board of Directors/General Manager/Secretary

SerialElectoral dutyTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Order No.

01Date by which electoral register shouldby 31st Decemberby 30th June4.1Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.be prepared

02Computer word processing andFrom 01st January to 10th JanuaryFrom 01st July to 10th July4.1, 4.2Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.certification of electoral registersChairman, Director,General Managerand Secretary

03Exhibition/publication of notificationsOn or before 04th JanuaryOn or before 04th July5.2, 48.2Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.containing particulars on exhibition ofelectoral registers, undertaking appeals,submission of objections

04Exhibition of electoral registersFrom 11th January to 25th JanuaryFrom 11th July to 25th July5.1, 48.2Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.

05Undertaking appeals/objectionsFrom 11th January to 25th JanuaryFrom 11th July and 25th July6.1, 7.1Secretary, BoardR.O.Co.D.of Directors

06Notification of the decision of theFrom 12th January to 08th FebruaryFrom 12th July to 8th August6.2Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.Board of Directors to the appellantsin view of the appeals received

07Amending electoral registers inFrom 12th January to 10th FebruaryFrom 12th July to 10th August6.1Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.view of appeals received

08Taking objections received intoFrom 12th January to 04th FebruaryFrom 12th July to 04th August7.2Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.consideration

09Notification of rejection of objectionsFrom 12th January to 27th FebruaryFrom 12th July 27th August7.3Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.

10Notification to submit counter-objectionsFrom 12th January to 05th FebruaryFrom 12th July to 05th August7.2(w)Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.

11Taking counter-objections received intoFrom 26th January to 26th FebruaryFrom 26th July to 26th August7.2(w)Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.

* R.O.Co.D. - Regional Officer of Co-operative Development

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(a). Checklist for Electoral Duties to be performed by the Board of Directors/General Manager/Secretary

SerialElectoral dutyTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Order No.

12Notification of non-acceptance ofFrom 26th January to 27th FebruaryFrom 26th July to 27th August7.2(wd)Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.counter-objections received

13Inclusion of a name to the electoralFrom 09th April to 18th AprilFrom 07th October to6.3(we)Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.register pursuant to a notification16th Octobermade to C. Co.D./R. to include aname of a member into the electoralregister with reference to appealssubmitted to the C.Co.D./R. forinclusion of his name

14Amendment of electoral registersFrom 22nd April to 01st MayFrom 23rd October to7.9Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.in view of objections/counter-01st Novemberobjections received

15Revision of electoral registersFrom 22nd April to 01st MayFrom 23rd Ocrtober to7.8Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.when the C.Co.D./R. has01st Novembernotified to include into or excludefrom the electoral register a nameof any member with reference toobjections/appeals presented to theC.Co.D./R.

16Forwarding electoral registersOn or before 24th MayOn or before 24th November8.1(we)Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.to the Commissioner

17Submission of a certificate to theOn or before 24th MayOn or before 24th November8.1(b)Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.Commissioner along with electoralregisters

18Notifying the regions/polling centers,before 03 months of the date ofbefore 03 months of the date of9.1(w)/SecretaryR.O.Co.D.their addresses and the numberexpiry of the term of office of theexpiry of the term of office of the(wd)of voting members to theGeneral AssemblyGeneral AssemblyCommissioner

19Submission of electoral registersAt least 03 days before the due dateAt least 03 days before the due date8.4Board of DirectorsR.O.Co.D.to the Chief Polling Officerfor entertaining nominationfor entertaining nomination

20Entertaining nomination and printingOn or before the date notified by theOn or before the date notified by the11.2SecretaryChief Pollingnotices on the elelctionChief Polling OfficerChief Polling OfficerOfficer

* R.O.Co.D - Regional Officer of Co-operative Development

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201642A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(a). Checklist for Electoral Duties to be performed by the Board of Directors/General Manager/Secretary

SerialElectoral dutyTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Order No.

21Exhibtion of notices on entertainingDuring the period notifiedDuring the period notified11.3General ManagerChief Pollingnominations and election andby the Chief Polling Officerby the Chief Polling OfficerOfficersubmission of written confirmationsof such exhibition of notices to theChief Polling Officer

22Handing over stationery, forms andDuring the period notifiedDuring the period notified12.2General ManagerChief Pollingother materials required for theby the Chief Polling Officerby the Chief Polling OfficerOfficerelection, to the Chief Polling Officer

23Provision of the amount of staffTo locations directed by the ChiefTo locations directed by the Chief12.5General ManagerChief Pollingof the Society, vehicles andPolling Officer, during the periodPolling Officer, during the periodOfficerequipment required for thehe has directedhe has directedelection, to the Chief PollingOfficer

24Printing notices containing namesDuring the period notifiedDuring the period notified22.2SecretaryChief Pollingof electoral candidate and theirby the Chief Polling Officerby the Chief Polling OfficerOfficerpreferential numbers

25Exhibition of notices containingDuring the period notifiedDuring the period notified22.3General ManagerChief Pollingnames and preferential numbersby the Chief Polling Officerby the Chief Polling OfficerOfficerof the electoral candidates andsubmission of written confirmationsof such exhibition of notices, to theChief Polling Officer

26Exhibition of names and membershipSoon after submissionSoon after submission of41.3SecretaryChief Pollingnumbers of elected Committeerelevant particulars by therelevant particulars by theOfficerMembers handed over by theChief Polling OfficerChief Polling OfficerChief Polling Officer

27Safe keeping of documentsA minimum period of 01 yearA minimum period of 01 year53.1SecretaryR.O.Co.D.pertaining to the election handedfrom the date of terminationfrom the date of terminationover to the Secretary by variousof electoral work and at leastof electoral work and at leastPolling Officersa period of 06 monthsa period of 06 monthsfrom finalization of work onfrom finalization of work onthe relevant litigation/complaintthe relevant litigation/complaint

28Safe keeping electoral registerA period of at least one yearA period of at least one year8.6SecretaryR.O.Co.D.submitted by Polling Officers tofrom the date the Secretaryfrom the date the Secretarythe Secretaryentertained the electoral registersentertained the electoral registers

* R.O.Co.D. - Regional Officer of Co-operative Development

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(b). Checklist for Electoral works to be performed by members

SerialElectoral workDuration/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Order No.

01Submission of appeals to insertFrom 11th January to 25th JanuaryFrom 11th July to 25th July6.1To the relevant-a name into the electoral registerMember

02Submission of objections on a nameFrom 11th January to 25th JanuaryFrom 11th July to 25th July7.1To the relevant-inserted into the electoral registerMember

03Submission of counter-objectionsFrom 13th January to 19thFrom 13th July to 19th August7.2(a)To the relevant- FebruaryMember

04Submission of a second appeal toFrom 16th Ferbuary to 25thFrom 16th August to 25th August6.3(b)To the relevant-the C. Co. D./R., North-WesternFebruaryMemberwhen it has been notified that theBoard of Directors has rejectedthe member's appeal or when toreply has been sent by the Boardof Directors

05Submission of an objection to theFrom 01st March to 10thFrom 01st September to 10th7.4, 7.6To the relevant-C. Co. D./R., North-WesternMarchSeptemberMemberwhen it has been notified that theBoard of Directors has rejectedthe objection submitted or whenno reply has been sent by the Boardof Directors on the objection submitted

06Submission of an objection to theFrom 01st March to 10thFrom 01st September to 10th7.5, 7.6To the relevant-C. Co. D./R., North-WesternMarchSeptemberMemberwhen the Board of Directors hasnotified to the Member of removalof his name due to acceptance ofobjections submitted or when theBoard of Directors has not repliedthe counter-objections

* C. Co./ D./R. - North Western Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Register of Co-operative Societies, Norht Western.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201644A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(b). Checklist for Electoral works to be performed by members

SerialElectoral dutyDuration/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Order No.

07Exhibition of electoral registersDuring the period stipulated byDuring the period stipulated by8.3(b)Members-prepared as per Electoralpapers by the Commissioner ofpapers by the Commissioner ofRegulation 8.3, making appealsco-operative Development andco-operative Development andand submission of objectionsRegistrar of Co-operative Societies,Registrar of Co-operativeNorthern WesternSocieties, Northern Western

08Members not qualified to submit--14.1Members-nominations

09Method of preparation of--FromMembers-nomination papers15.1 to15.4

10Submission of nomination papersFrom 9.00 a. m. to 10.00 a. m.From 9.00 a. m. to 10.00 a. m.16.1Members-the date specified foron the date specified forentertaining nominationsentertaining nominations

11Submission of objections toFrom 10.00 a. m. to 11.00 a. m.From 10.01 a. m. to 11.00 a. m.17.1Members-nominations submittedthe date specified foron the date specified forentertaining nominationsentertaining nominations

12Matters against which objections--17.2Members-may be submitted

13Receipt of preferential numbersAfter 11.01 a. m. on the dateAfter 11.01 a. m. on the date21.1Candidates and-specified for entertainingspecified for entertainingmembers who havenominationsnominationsproposed andseconded theirnames

* C.Co.D./R., North-western - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(b). Checklist for Electoral works to be performed by members

SerialElectoral dutyDuration/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Order No.

14Period of electionFrom 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m.From 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m.28.1Candidates, Members-on the date specified for theon the date specified for thewho proposedElectionElectionand seconded theirnames and all othermembers

15Sealing ballot boxesBefore 9.00 a. m. on the dateBefore 9.00 a. m. on the date29.1Candidates, Member-specified for the Electionspecified for the Electionwho proposedand seconded theirnames and all othermembers

16Persons authorized to enterDuring specific periods onDuring specific periods on27.1Candidates, Member-into and remain in the Pollingthe date specified forthe date specified forwho proposedCenterthe ElectionElectionand seconded theirnames and all othermembers

17Receiving ballot papers andFrom 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m.From 9.00 a. m. to 4.00 p. m.AllCandidates, Member-how to cast votethe date specified foron the date specified forElectoralwho proposedthe Electionthe ElectionRegulationsand seconded theirfrom 30.1names and all otherto 34.2members

18Counting votes and issue ofAfter 4.00 p. m. on the dateAfter 4.00 p. m. on the dateAllCandidates, Member-results specified for the Electionspecified for the ElectionElectoralwho proposedRegulationsand seconded theirFrom 35.1namesto 41.4

* C.Co.D./R., North-western - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201646A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1)

(d). Electoral duties to be performed by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

SerialElectoral workTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulation No.

01Fixing the date for entertainingIn keeping with rules specifiedIn Keeping with rules specified9.2C.Co.D./R*-nominations and election andin the registered By-lawin the registered By-lawrevision of the dates so fixed

02Exhibition of electoral registersFrom 11th January to 25th From 11th July to 25th July5.1(c)C.Co.D./R-in the website of the Co-operativeJanuaryDepartment, North-Western

Temporary suspension of exhibitionUp to a maximum of 02 yearsUp to a maximum of 02 years55.4C.Co.D./Rof electoral registeres in the websitewith effect from the date thiswith effect from the date thisof the Co-operative Department,code of electoral regulationscode of electoral regulationsNorth-westernbecomes effective for North-becomes effective for North-western Provincewestern Province

03Making an enquiry on the 2ndFrom 16th February to 18th AprilFrom 16th August to 06th6.3(b)C.Co.D./R-appeals submitted by membersOctober

04Making decisions on the 2ndOn or before 08th AprilOn or before 06th October6.3(b)C.Co.D./R-appeals submitted by members

05Making an enquiry on objections/From 01st March to 21st AprilFrom 01st September to 22nd7.7C.Co.D./R-appeals received on removal of aOctobername mentioned in the electoralregister

06Announcing the decision onOn or before 21st AprilOn or before 22nd October7.7C.Co.D./R-objections/appeals received onremoval of a name mentionedin the electoral register

07Exhibition of electoral registersOn or before 03rd MarchOn or before 31st August8.3(d)C.Co.D./R-prepared as per the electoralregulation 8.3(c), publishing paperadvertisements containing datesenteraining appeals objections

* C.Co.D./R., North-western - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(d). Electoral duties to be performed by the Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

SerialElectoral workTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulation No.

08Removal of the relevant CommitteeOnce the enquiry on objectionsOnce the enquiry on objections17.8C.Co.D./RMember from post pursuant to anis overis overenquiry made on the objections referred toat electoral regulation 17.2(a) and aconsequent decision taken to the effect thata Committee Member elected accordinglyshould be removed

09Giving instructions to the Polling OfficerOn the day of entertainingOn the day of entertaining43.2C.Co.D./R-in charge of the Center on action to benominations and day ofnominations and day oftaken when there are agitations to theelectionelectionlevel beyond his control

10Issue cof instructions and directivesWhen the requirements arisesWhen the requirements arises47.1C.Co.D./Ron matters pertaining to electoralduties not referred to in the Code ofElectoral Regulations

11Issue of relevant instructions andDuring periods specified inDuring periods specified in48.3C.Co.D./R-directives to Assistant Co-operativeElectoral Regulation 48.3Electoral Regulation 48.3Commissioners in charge of Divisionswhen the staff or Board of Directorsof the Society refrain from adhereingto regulations in the Code of ElectoralRegulations

12Recovery of expenses to be borneAs per rules specified inAs per rules specified in48.4C.Co.D./R-by the Co-operative Department,Electoral Regulation 48.4Electoral Regulation 48.4North-western, for adhereing to rulesspecified in Electoral Regulations83. and 48.3

13Issue of regulations pertaining toDuring period specified inDuring period specified in55.1, 55.2,C.Co.D./R-interim provisions Electoral Regulations 55.1, Electoral Regulations 55.1,55.3 and55.2, 55.3 and 55.455.2, 55.3 and 55.455.4

14DefinitionWhen the requirements arisesWhen the requirements arises57.2C.Co.D./R-

* C.Co.D./R., North-western - Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201648A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1)

(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division

SerialElectoral WorkTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulations No.

01Certification of Electoral RegistersBefore 08th JuneBefore 9th December8.1(c)AssistantC.Co.D./R*prepared by the SocietyCommissionerof Co-operativein charge of theDivision

02Once the dates for entertainingSoon after receiving theSoon after receiving the9.3AssistantC.Co.D./R*nominations in Region and Electionletter of the C. Co.D./Rletter of the C. Co.D./RCommissionerare notified by the C.Co.D./R,notifying dates of nominationnotifying dates of nominationof Co-operativeintimation of such datesand election of Societiesand election of Societiesin charge of theDivision

(i)To Secretary to the Society

(ii)To the Chief Polling Officer,When issuing letters ofWhen issuing letters of9.3AssistantC.Co.D./R*Polling Officers in charge of theappointment of relevantappointment of relevantCommissionerCenters, Polling Officers andofficersofficersof Co-operativeAssistant Polling Officersin charge of theDivision

Appointment of officers

(i)Chief Polling OfficersAt least a month beforeAt least a month before10.1(a)AssistantC.Co.D./R*the date regulated forthe date regulated forCommissionerentertaining nominationsentertaining nominationsof Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(ii)Polling Officers in charge ofOn a day to be decided by theOn a day to be decided by the10.1(b)AssistantC.Co.D./R*Centers and Assistant PollingAssistant Commissioner inAssistant Commissioner in24.1CommissionerOfficers required for theircharge of the Divisioncharge of the Divisionin charge of theassistanceDivision

03(iii)Polling Officers required by theOn a day to be decided by theOn a day to be decided by the10.1(c)AssistantC.Co.D./R*-Chief Polling Officer for hisAssistant Commissioner inAssistant Commissioner inCommissionerassistance and Assistant Pollingcharge of the Divisioncharge of the Divisionof Co-operativeOfficersin charge of theDivision

(iv)Replacement of another officerSoon after understandingSoon after understanding10.2AssistantC.Co.D./R*at an instant when an officerthat a situation has arisen wherethat a situation has arisen whereCommissionerappointed for electoral dutiesan officer appointed foran officer appointed forof Co-operativefalls into a situation where he isElectoral duties is no longerElectoral duties is no longerin charge of theunable to perform themable to perform his dutiesable to perform his dutiesDivision

* C.Co.D./R., Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division

SerialElectoral WorkTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulations No.

04Receiving Police security required forAt least 4 weeks before theAt least 4 weeks before the13.1AssistantC.Co.D./R*Electiondate of calling nominationsdate of calling nominationsCommissionerof Co-operativein charge of theDivision

05Objections submitted by the ChiefWithin 03 working daysWithin 03 working days17.5AssistantC.Co.D./R*Polling Officerfrom the day on which thefrom the day on which theCommissioner(i)entertaining objections pertainingChief Polling OfficerChief Polling Officerof Co-operativeto Electoral Regulations No. 17.2received objectionsreceived objectionsin charge of the(b), 17.2(c) & 17.2(d)Division

(ii)Entertaining objections pertainingWithin 03 working daysWithin 03 working days17.6AssistantC.Co.D./R*to Electoral Regulations 17.2(a)from the day on which thefrom the day on which theCommissionerChief Polling OfficerChief Polling Officerof Co-operativereceived objectionsreceived objectionsin charge of theDivision

(iii)Sending recommendations onWithin 21 days from the dayWithin 21 days from the day17.7AssistantC.Co.D./R*objections entertained underof submission of objectionsof submission of objectionsCommissionerElectoral Regulation 17.2((a)by the Chief Polling Officerby the Chief Polling Officerof Co-operativeto C. Co.D./Rin charge of theDivision

(iv)Destroying objections undertaken(i)After 06 months from the(i)After 06 months from the date17.10AssistantC.Co.D./R*under Electoral Regulations 17.2date of entertainingof entertaining nominationsCommissioner(b), 17.2(c), 17.2(d)nominations if no litigationif no litigation has beenof Co-operativehas been initiated on electoralinitiated on electorla workin charge of thework of the Societyof the SocietyDivision

(ii)When a litigation has been(ii)When a litigation has been17.10AssistantC.Co.D./Ron electoral work of theon electoral work of theCommissionerSociety, until a determinationSociety, until a determinationof Co-operativeis issued after hearing theis issued after hearing thein charge of thesaid litigation or passage ofsaid litigation or passage ofDivision06 months from the date06 months from the dateof entertaining nominations,of entertaining nominations,whichever is longerwhichever is longer

* C.Co.D./R., Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201650A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division

SerialElectoral workTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulation No.

06Issuing instructions on action to be takenWhen the incident is reportedWhen the incident is reported43.2AssistantC.Co.D./Rat a post-distribution contextin accordance with Electoralin accordance with ElectoralCommissionerRegulation 43.2Regulation 43.2of Co-operativein charge of theDvision

(i)After 06 months from the(i)After 06 months from the53.2AssistantC.Co.D./Rdate of termination ofdate of termination ofCommissionerelectoral work, if noelectorla work, if noof Co-operativelitigation has been initiatedlitigation has been initiatedin charge of theor no complaint has beenor no complaint has beenDivisionreceived on electoral workreceived on electoral workof the Societyof the Society

07Destroying documents, forms(ii)After 06 months from the(ii)After 06 months from the53.2AssistantC.Co.D./Rpertaining to electoral workdate of finalizing work ondate of finalizing work onCommissionerof the Soceity undertaken formthe relevant litigation/the relevant litigation/of Co-operativethe Chief Polling Officer/Pollingcomplaint, when litigationcomplaint, when litigationin charge of theOfficer in charge of the Center/has been initiated or ahas been initiated or aDivisionPolling Officer/Assistant Pollingcomplaint has been receivedcomplaint has been receivedofficeron electoral work of theon electoral work of theSocietySociety

08Making provisions to implementBefore 31st JanuaryBefore 31st July4.1, 8.3(a),AssistantC.Co.D./Relectoral work when the Society8.3(c)Commissioneris neglecting implementation ofof Co-operativesuch electoral work - 1in charge of the(i) Initiation of preparing electoralDivision registers

* C.Co.D./R., Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division

SerialElectoral workTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulation No.

(ii)Notifying the C. Co.D./R. aboutBefore 28th FebruaryBefore 31st August8.3(d)AssistantC.Co.D./Rfinalization of preparing electoralCommissionerregisters at its finalizationof Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(iii)Entertaining appeals pertaining toAs per periods published inAs per periods published in8.3(d)AssistantC.Co.D./Rinclusion of a name into the electoralnational newspapers by national newspapers byCommissionerregister, entertaining objections submittedC. Co.C/R.C. Co.C/R.of Co-operativeagainst a name included, notificationin charge of theto submit counter-objections toDivisionobjections and reference of them to theC. Co. D./R. together with hisobservations and recommendationson such appeals, objections and counter-objections

(iv)Getting amendment of ElectoralBefore 06th November6.1, 8.3(a)AssistantC.Co.D./RRegisters initiated(d)Commissioner(a) As per appealsof Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(a) As per objections/counter-Before 22nd MayBefore 22nd November7.8, 7.9AssistantC.Co.D./R objections8.3(a),Commissioner8.3(c)of Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(v)Certifying electoral registersBefore 29th JuneBefore 30th November8.3(a)AssistantC.Co.D./R54.1(a)Commissionerof Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(vi)Submission of certified electoralAssistantC.Co.D./R registers to the Chief Polling OfficerCommissioner(a)Submission of electoral registersAt least 02 days prior toAt least 02 days prior to8.1(c),of Co-operative in his charge to the Chief Polling Officerthe date stipulated forthe date stipulated for8.4in charge of the when the Board of Directors do notentertaining nominationsentertaining nominationsDivisionsubmit electoral registers certified bythe Assistant Commissioner ofCo-operative in charge of the Division

*C.Co.D./R., Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.201652A

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division

SerialElectoral workTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulation No.

(b)Submission of electoral registersAt least 03 days prior toAt least 03 days prior to8.3(a)AssistantC.Co.D./Rcertified as per the Electoralthe date stipulated forthe date stipulated forCommissionerRegulation 8.3(a) to the Chiefentertaining nominationsentertaining nominationsof Co-operativePolling Officerin charge of theDivision

Making provisions for performance ofDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3electoral work, when the Societyin the electoral regulationsin the electoral regulationsneglect performance of electoral work 248.348.3

(i)When neglecting exhibition ofAssistantC.Co.D./Rnotices pertaining to exhibition ofCommissionerelectoral registeres (5.2)of Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(ii)When neglecting exhibition ofDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Relectoral registers (5.1)in the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissioner48.3 48.3of Co-operativein charge of theDivision

(iii)When neglecting adhering to theDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./R09requirement of furnishingin the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionerinformation (9.1) by the Secretary48.3 48.3of Co-operative03 months before to the terminationin charge of theof the term of office of the GeneralDivisionAssembly of the Society

(iv)When neglecting requirement ofDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Rprinting notices containing dates forin the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionerentertaining nominations and election48.3 48.3of Co-operativeand other pertinent particluars (11.2)in charge of theDivision

(v)When neglecting the requirementDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Rof exhibition of notices printed onin the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionerentertaining nominations and election48.3 48.3of Co-operative(11.3)in charge of theDivision

(vi)When neglecting the requirementsDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Rof provision of stationery, forms andin the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionerother materials required for the48.3 48.3of Co-operativeelection (12.2)in charge of theDivision

(vii)When neglecting the requirementsDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Rof provision of vehicles, woodenin the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionermaterial and equipment and staff48.3 48.3of Co-operativerequired for the election (12.5)in charge of theDivision

*C.Co.D./R., Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'22PART IV (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.08.2016

SCHEDULE NO. 08 - (IX - 54.1) (Contd.)

(d). Electoral Work to be performed by Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative in charge of the Division

SerialElectoral workTime/dateElectoralResponsibilitySupervisionNo.Regulation No.

(viii)When neglecting the requirement ofDuring the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified 48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Rprinting (22.2) and exhibiting (22.3)in the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionernotices containing names of candidates,48.3 48.3of Co-operativepreferential numbers, date, place andin charge of thetime of electionDivision

(ix)When neglecting exhibition (41.3)During the period of specifiedDuring the period of specified48.3AssistantC.Co.D./Rof names and membership numbersin the electoral regulations in the electoral regulationsCommissionerof Committee Members elected48.3 48.3of Co-operativeas entrusted by the Chief Pollingin charge of theOfficerDivision

10Undertaking back the electoralWithin 03 days from the dayWithin 03 days from the day8.3(a),AssistantC.Co.D./Rregisters submitted by the Chiefof entertaining nominations/ of entertaining nominations/8.4,CommissionerPolling Officer following electoralelection, as applicableelection, as applicable8.5of Co-operativework (electoral registers referredin charge of theto at serial No. 8(iv) of this checklist)Division

11Safekeeping the electoral registersAt least up to 06 months fromAt least up to 06 months from8.6AssistantC.Co.D./Rhanded over by the Chief Pollingthe date of entertaining electoralthe date of entertaining electoralCommissionerOfficer after electoral workregisters if neither litigation hasregisters if neither litigation hasof Co-operativebeen initiated on electoral workbeen initiated on electoral workin charge of theof the Society nor a complaintof the Society nor a complaintDivisionreceivedreceived

Up to the end of the litigationUp to the end of the litigation8.6AssistantC.Co.D./Rwhen litigation has beenwhen litigation has beenCommissionerinitiated on election work ofinitiated on election work ofof Co-operativethe societythe societyin charge of theDivision

12Recovery of expenses to be borne byAs per rules specified inAs per rules specified in48.4AssistantC.Co.D./Rthe Co-operative Department to meetElectoral Regulation 48.4Electoral Regulation 48.4Commissionerthe requirements of rules specifiedof Co-operativein the Code of Electoral Regulationsin charge of theowing to non-adherence on the part ofDivisionthe Co-operative Society to the same

* C.Co.D./R., Commissioner of Co-operative Development and Registrar of Co-operative Societies, North-western

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.09 - 205