w;s úfYI

wxl 2451$17 - 2025 wf.daia;= ui 27 jeks nodod - 2025.08'27No. 2451/17 - WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 27, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - G 45241 - 05 (08/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34

NOTIFICATION

Appointments under the Notaries Ordinance

IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in terms of Section 03 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from July 04, 2025.

1. Mr. Mahroof Mohamed Munas of No. 01/A, Java Street, Kinniya 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Trincomalee.

2. Mrs. Muthumuni Rangika Srimali Silva of No. 23/2, Kirindivita, Gampaha, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

3. Mr. Agampodi Himala Sandesh De Silva of No. 161, Bandaragama Road, Waskaduwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.

4. Miss. Uthandichetty Sasisuthajini of No. 100, Power House Road, Trincomalee, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Trincomalee.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.20252A

5. Mrs. Nanayakkara Mahaguruge Dilki Madhushani of No. 532/A, Barudelpola, Thoduwawa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

6. Mrs. Balachandra Arachchige Don Buddhi Tharangika Wijesiri of No. 294/A, J. P. Waththa, Bangadeniya, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

7. Mrs. Marasingha Arachchige Sanduni Sheron Umesha of No. 295, Morukkuliya, Dankotuwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

8. Mrs. Randunu Pathirannahalage Pubudu Dulmini Pathirana of No. 15/C, Paluwelgala Road, Koswatta, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

9. Mrs. Udari Sampath Samadini Katawalagedara of School Lane, Eluwapola, Wawagama, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

10. Miss. Pathiraja Herathge Tharushi Thakshila Kularathna of No. 33/1, Shiromani Mawatha, Piliyandala Road, Maharagama, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

11. Miss. Dasanayake Mudiyanselage Koralegedara Ama Harindi Bandara of No. 19/2, 6th Lane, Samagi Mawatha, Walgama, Matara, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Matara.

12. Mrs. Kohommadhu Nasaar Fathima Rubeena of No. 10/2, Madu Lane, Ethungahakotuwa, Kuliyapitiya, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

13. Miss. Hetti Narayana Mudiyanselage Manoji Prabodya of No. 465, Pothuwila Watta, Palubarampola, Padiwela, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

14. Miss. Weerasekara Bamunu Mudiyanselage Chamari Nelum Weerasekara of Galwewa, Sunandapura, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

15. Mrs. Wijesundara Disanayaka Mudiyanselage Achala Priyadarshani Premarathne of No. 365, Bihalpola, Nakkawaththa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

16. Mr. Senarath Mudiyanselage Ishan Prageeth Thilakarathna of Welewaththa, Kanugala, Muruthange, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

17. Mrs. Gallage Ruwanee Prarthana Kithsiri of Paddy Stock Road, Dodamwaththa, Buttala, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Monaragala.

18. Mr. Ranathunga Arachchillage Upali Ranathunga of No. 15/45, Wadugamakumbura, Polgahawela Road, Ranwala, Kegalle, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.

19. Mr. Polwattage Chinthaka Yahaniwan Perera of No. 38, Moraketiya Road, Thumbowila, Piliyandala, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Homagama.

20. Mr. Jayasuriya Kuranage Himal Jananjaya Perera of 'Pathum', Main Street, Wennappuwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

21. Mrs. Sareena Abdul Faleel of No. 93/3, Manning Place, Colombo 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

22. Miss. Amirthalingam Vijithaa of Main Street, Periyathampanai, Vavuniya, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Vavuniya.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.2025

3A

23. Miss. Kurukulasuriya Terese Iruni Dilrukshi Peiris of No. 54, Uswatte Road, Ethul Kotte, Kotte, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

24. Mr. Mohammed Laheer Faizal Mohammed of Kukulapana, Medakekila, Delthota, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Kandy.

25. Mr. Mohammadu Ibraheem Mohamed Rizwan of No. 29A/2, Madawakkulama, Andigama, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Puttalam.

26. Mr. Sulthan Janseer of No. 35A, Madeena Nagar, Alankuda, Ettalai, Puttalam, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Puttalam.

27. Miss. Korala Gamage Sachini Madhushika Gamage of No. 341, Dangolla Road, Pannala, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kuliyapitiya.

28. Miss. Amarsinghe Dissanayake Geethma Pubudunie of 'Kasun', Jayamana Watta, Dampella, Telijjawela, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matara.

29. Miss. Gangoda Vithana Gamage Maheshika Maduwanthi of Peragahahena Watta, Borala, Weligama, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matara.

30. Mr. Ratnasingam Balakanthan of No. 23, 9/1, Moor's Road, Colombo 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

31. Miss. Gaayathieri Baskaran of No. 75/12, Front Lane, Palaly Road, Thirunelvely, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

32. Mrs. Abdul Razzak Fathima Shafna of No. 186/A, Pangollamada, Akurana, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.

33. Mrs. Abdul Rauf Fathima Mahira of No. 43/A, Udurassapitiya, Katugastota, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.

34. Mr. Yowun Weerathunga Wakishta of 'Gegawa', Aththudawa, Palatuwa, Matara, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matara.

35. Miss. Nilabdeen Fathima Hasra of No. 10/9/1/1, Circular Road, Mapanawathura, Poornawatte, Kandy, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.

36. Mr. Subramaniyam Kandeeban of No. 55, Darawala (L. D), Thiruvalluwarpuram, Dickoya, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Nuwara Eliya.

37. Mr. Hetti Arachchige Kushanka Geesara Perera of No. 57D, St. Theresa Mawatha, Nainamadama East, Nainamadama, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

38. Miss. Wanni Arachchilage Sanduni Madushika Wanniarachchi of Okkampitiya Road, Welivita Ulla Junction, Buttala, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Monaragala.

39. Mr. Shanmuganathan Gowshican of No. 95, Temple Road, Kokuvil East, Kokuvil, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

40. Mrs. Madampitiyage Tharaka Nilakshi Fernando of No. 9/3A, Kudamaduwa Road, Mattegoda, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Homagama.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.20254A

41. Mrs. Wijesinghe Dissanayakage Dushyantha Madhubhashani of No. 10th, 2/6, Ward Place, Colombo 07, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

42. Mrs. Mohamed Ajwad Fathima Risla of No. 80, Hutha Lane, Kattankudy 03, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Batticaloa.

43. Mr. Shanmuganathan Sanjeevan of No. 55/41, Wimalasiri De Mel Mawatha, Rohanapura, Ratmalana, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

44. Mr. Ratnayake Mudiyanselage Samantha Ratnayake of No. 35A, Anthuduwawela, Miriswatta, Hali Ela, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Badulla.

45. Mr. Wickramasingha Arachchilage Jaliya Nishantha Perera of 'Shalika', Gamagedara, Anthuduwawela, Hali Ela practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Badulla.

46. Mr. Bhanuka Samarawickrama Lokuhetty of No. 48, Anandarama Road, Molpe, Moratuwa, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Panadura.

47. Miss, Herath Mudiyanselage Rusandhi Thathsari Perera of No. 03, Nawala Rodrigo Place, Galpotta Road, Nawala, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

48. Mr. Mohamed Mohideen Mohamed Ibralebbe of No. 154, Arabic College Road, Akkaraipattu 18, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Kalmunai.

49. Mr. Mohamed Hathim Shafi Hussain of No. 6 1/3, Charlemont Road, Wellawatte, Colombo 06, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

50. Mrs. Kandanhene Ankumbure Gedara Chandima Sujeewani Amunuthuduwa of No. 2/32, Dorakumbura, Dunkolawatta, Matale, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Matale.

51. Miss. Don Benjamin Kavindi Nipunika Samarasinghe of 'Edirisinghe Niwasa', Godagama, Thelwatta, Hikkaduwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.

52. Mrs. Jeyabhaarathy Krishna of No. 55/15, Sounders Court, Colombo 02, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

53. Mr. Kasivisuvanathan Yugawendra of No. 187, 2nd Cross Street, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

54. Miss. Mahamuni Damithrie Thathsarani Abayarathna of No. 400/1, Gangaramaya Road, Alubomulla, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Panadura.

55. Miss. Theoginus Regimond Annsista of No. 35/2, 3rd Cross Street, Passaiyoor, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

56. Mr. Mohamed Thawfeek Mohamed Shiraz of No. 178, Galweta, Madipola, Matale, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Matale.

57. Mr. Sawkath Ali Mohamed Risan of No. 239 A/1, Ambalanduwa, Panadura, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Panadura.

58. Mrs. Hegoda Arachchige Tharindri Deewangani of No. 63/4, 4th Lane, Dambahena Road, Maharagama, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.2025

5A

59. Mrs. Manchanayaka Arachchige Aruni Prathiba of No. 555, 17C, Fairway Urban Homes, Koswatta North, Battaramulla, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Homagama.

60. Miss. Bombuwalage Dona Divya Khanthi Upekkha Bombuwalage of No. 21/24, Oyabada Road, Dadagamuwa, Veyangoda, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

61. Mr. Pelawaththe Athukoralalage Malith Shehara of No. 14/A, Walpola, Ruggahawila, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

62. Mrs. Mohamed Munasir Fathima Zahra of No. 257/8, Olcott Mawatha, Galle, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Galle.

63. Mrs. Taniya Jayamali Haththotuwa Gamage of No. 15/1, Maya Mawatha, Maharagama, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

64. Miss. Yokarasa Kethiny of No. 56, Koddaikaddiyakulam, Akkarayan, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Killinocchchi.

65. Mrs. Anat Rishana Jenaraj of Pokkanai Junction, Sannathy Road, Uduppiddy, Jaffna, Practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

66. Miss. Hadigalla Tuhiyakonthage Anusha Nadeeshani Fernando of No. 362/2, Meda Pitipana, Negombo, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Negombo.

67. Miss. Dickwella Chathumini Nayanathara Vithana of No. 12, Middle Class Housing Scheme, Hali Ela, Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Badulla.

68. Mrs. Mathrage Isanka Upeksha Perera of No. 226/4, Pallemulla, Halloluwa, Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Kandy.

69. Miss. Maddage Kasuni Taniya Kavindi of No. 39/B, Kudabuthgamuwa, Mulleriyawa New Town, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

70. Miss. Hanchapola Appuhamilage Maheema Malshani Hanchapola of No. 149/17, 'Nelum Pedesa', Seeduwa Road Udugampola, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

71. Miss. Dasanayaka Hitihamillage Dinithi Thilakna Dasanayaka of No. 4/3/9, Nungamuwa, Keenawala, Pallewela, Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

72. Mr. Mohamed Hiluru Mohamed Azmy of No. 34, Jamiullafrin, Mosque Road, Kattankudy 06, Practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Batticaloa.

73. Mr. Dehiwalage Neville Chrisantus Perera of No. 163/A, Kongaha Road, Ihala Kottaramulla, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.

74. Mr. Mohamed Mehalar Mohamed Ramzi of No. 382/42, Dematagoda Road, Colombo 09, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

75. Mrs. Keppetiyawaththe Gedara Nadeesha Dilhani of No. 2626, Stage 3, Anuradapura, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Anuradapura.

76. Mrs. Hetti Arachchi Kankanamalage Umesha Thilakshi Hettiarachchi of No. 1/49, Wataddara, Veyangoda, Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.20256A

77. Mrs. Widanelage Gimhani Anuththara Premarathna of No. 269/1/B, Munidasa Kumarathunga Mawatha, Mukalangamuwa, Seeduwa, Practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Negombo.

78. Mr. Ratnasingam Senthooran of No. 19, Pulavanar Road, Kalviyankadu, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

79. Miss. Ginthotage Chamathka Anjalee De Silva of No. 468/4, Madinnagoda, Rajagiriya, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

80. Miss. Kangara Pathirannehelage Sashika Sandamali of No. 9/5, Gomes Park, Vajira Road, Colombo 04, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

81. Miss. Gangodawilage Lakshani Isuri Perera of No. 35, S. De. S. Jayasinghe Mawatha, Kalubowila, Dehiwala, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

82. Mr. Arulparan Umakaran of No. 91/4, Thavadi Manipay Road, Thavadi South, Kokuvil, Jaffna, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

83. Miss. Jayaneththi Koralalage Gnanodya Kaumadi Jayaneththi of No. 28/2/A, Galabadayawatta Road, Matugama, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.

84. Mr. Wathukarage Asindu Ruwan Dharmapriya of No. 18, Mahawatta Road, Ambuldeniya, Nugegoda, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

85. Miss. Manchanayaka Arachchige Aruni Prathiba of No. 50/3, Pannalpitiya, Pamunuwatta, Mirigama, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

86. Miss. Kannangara Ralalage Shaini Jeewanthika Kannangara of No. 88/03, Polhena Road, Nittabuwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

87. Miss. Ishani Gavesha Amarasinghe of No. 145, Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha, Colombo 10, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

88. Mrs. Rajapakshe Pathirannehelage Asanka Nishadi Wijesooriya of No. 10/2, Kandy Road, Radawadunna, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.

By Order of the Honourable Minister,

S. Alokabandara, Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government.

Colombo,14th August, 2025.

EOG 08 - 0279/1

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.2025

7A

My No. : HA/05/20/01/01/34

NOTIFICATION

Appointments under the Notaries Ordinance

IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in terms of Section 11 of the Notaries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from August 14, 2025.

1. Miss. Laddu Anuradha Rasanjalee De Silva, No. 2 C, Peters Place, Kohuwala, Nugegoda, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

2. Mrs. Anushka Madusangani Mendis Rajakaruna of Rathanasiri Mawatha, Batuwanhena, Elpitiya, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.

3. Mrs. Weerasekara Mudiyanselage Kalpani Weerasekara of No. 95/2, Balasooriya Watta, Mawathagama, practicing as a Notary Public in English languages within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.

4. Mrs. Wathsala Nilmini Kumari Pathirana of "Rajagaha", Mawaththa, Polgahawela, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.

5. Mrs. Sakula Prajapathi Kumaranayake of No. 75, Panadura Road, Horana, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Panadura.

6. Mr. Buddhi Pradeep Niyadandupola of No. 146, Galle Road, Colombo 03, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala languages within the judicial zone of Colombo.

7. Mrs. Wickramasinghe Rajapaksha Wasala Mudiyanselage Anuradhi Iranthika Wickramasinghe of No. 50/34, Midland City, Aniyakanda, Kandana, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Negombo.

8. Mrs. Jhonikkuhewa Chintha Nilmini, No. 399, Siyabalawaththa, Dewahuwa, Galewela, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Matale.

9. Miss. Narendran Kowsalya of C/O Dr. Ramanathan Archchuna (MP), Meesalai North, Meesalai, practicing as a Notary Public in Tamil language within the judicial zone of Jaffna.

10. Mrs. Sakunika Sathsaranee Waidyathilaka of No. 109/5, First Lane, Gothami Road, Colombo 8, practicing as a Notary Public in English language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

11. Mrs. Katulanda Dewage Geethma Sandali Katulanda of No. A/148/4, Nilmini Uyana, Madola, Avissawella, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Avissawella.

12. Miss. Eliyadurage Sasiri Janithma Chandrasiri of No. 7/4, Fernando Road, Karagampitiya, Dehiwala, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Colombo.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.08.20258A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

13. Mrs. Weragoda Vidanelage Pavithra Sandeepani of No. 794, Ketapala, Ganegoda, Elpitiya, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala languages within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.

14. Mrs. Rathnayaka Mudiyanselage Ruvini Buddhika Rathnayaka of No. 162/F/3, Neelammahara, Boralesgamuwa, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala and English languages within the judicial zone of Colombo.

15. Mr. Dinesh Nuwan Amarathunge of No. 59/7, Araliya Uyana, Elhena Road, Maharagama, practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

By Order of the Honourable Minister,

S. Alokabandara, Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government.

Colombo,22nd August, 2025.

EOG 08 - 0279/2