w;s úfYI

wxl 2452$40 - 2025 iema;eïn¾ ui 04 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025.09.04No. 2452/40 - THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 04, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - PG 7240 - 454 (09/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L.D.B. 24/1951(XVII)

MOTOR TRAFFIC ACT (CHAPTER 203)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Transport, Highways, Ports and Civil Aviation under section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) read with section 151 of the said Act.

Bimal Niroshan Rathnayaka, Minister of Transport, Highways, Ports and Civil Aviation.

Colombo,01st September 2025.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as Motor Traffic (Drugs) Regulations, No. 01 of 2025.

2. (1) Where a police officer reasonably suspects that a person who drives, operates, or be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle on any road has consumed drugs, such police officer shall produce such person to a Government Medical Officer or any authorized officer by the hospital in that behalf for further examination.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'09'04Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.20252A

(2) The reasonable suspicion referred to in sub-regulation (1) may arise if a police officer observes-

(a) any unusual or indicative skin responses or abnormal behaviour of such driver;

(b) driver’s speech, action, movement, or balance;

(c) the appearance of the driver’s eyes which indicates drug ingestion;

(d) the driver’s attitude or the appearance of the driver’s clothing which indicate drug ingestion;

(e) through an investigation conducted based on reasonable information or complaint against a drug impaired driver; or

(f) through a saliva test conducted by using a device approved by the Inspector General of Police in that behalf.

(3) Any driver who is required to provide a sample of saliva for the saliva test referred to in paragraph (f) of sub-regulation (2), shall provide such sample under reasonable arrangements provided by the police officer.

(4) Any driver who refuses to provide such sample as referred to in sub-regulation (3) shall be produced to a Government Medical Officer or authorized officer as soon as possible for examination.

(5) A saliva test may be conducted by the police officer at the police station or any other convenient location by using a device approved by the Inspector General of Police in that behalf.

(6) A police officer conducting a saliva test shall take all necessary steps that can be reasonably taken to ensure that the public do not easily notice that the saliva test is being conducted.

(7) Upon the testing under sub-regulation (6), the police officer who is satisfied that the driver has consumed any drug or combination of drugs, shall produce such driver to a Government Medical Officer or authorized officer in a Government hospital as soon as possible for further examination.

3. The Government Medical Officer or authorized officer shall conduct an examination in accordance with the examination method approved by the Director General of Health Services of a driver produced before him by a police officer under sub-regulation (1) or (7) of regulation 2 and such driver shall provide to the Government Medical Officer or authorized officer, a sample of blood, urine, saliva or other bodily fluids required to conduct the test, as requested by such Government Medical Officer or authorized officer.

4. Any driver who refuses to provide such sample as referred to in regulation 3, shall be dealt with according to the provisions of paragraph (e) of sub section (1C) of section 151 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203).

5. If the Government Medical Officer or authorized officer, upon the examination conducted by him under regulation 3, discovers that a person has consumed any drug or combination of drugs, he shall give a preliminary report to the police officer for the related legal proceedings until the final report is given according to the results of the laboratory test referred to in regulation 7.

6. If the Government Medical Officer or authorized officer do not discover through the examination conducted by him under regulation 3, that such person has consumed drugs, the report to that effect shall be given by such Government Medical Officer or authorized officer who has conducted such examination to the police officer.

7. Where it is discovered in the examination conducted by the Government Medical Officer or authorized officer as referred to in regulation 3, that a person has consumed drugs, a part of such blood, urine, saliva or other body fluid sample taken from such person shall be forwarded to a government institution or a laboratory approved by the Director General of Health Services for such purpose for testing of such sample.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'09'04Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2025

3A

8. The Government Medical Officer or authorized officer after checking the results of the laboratory test conducted on the sample as referred to in regulation 7, shall give the final report to the Officer In Charge of the police station having jurisdiction or to a police officer authorized by him.

9. If it is established according to the final report issued by the Government Medical Officer or authorized officer, that the blood, urine, saliva or other body fluid sample taken from the driver contains any amount of any drug, he shall be considered to have consumed drugs.

10. For the purpose of these regulations-

“drug” means any drug mentioned in Group “B” of third Schedule of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218) and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic substance included in PART I and PART II of THIRD SCHEDULE and PART I, PART II, PART III and PART IV of the FOURTH SCHEDULE in Convention against illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, No. 1 of 2008; and

“Government Medical Officer” means a qualified medical practitioner registered with the Sri Lanka Medical Council and employed in any government or government- affiliated, or statutory board institution within Sri Lanka.

EOG 09 - 0053

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.