THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of July 07, 2017

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 10.07.2017)

J. SRI RANGA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION)

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. M.S.Thowfeek

to incorporate the J. Sri Ranga Foundation

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

A

BILL

(Private Member's Bill)

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)1

5

10

15

20

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE J. SRI RANGA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS Foundation called and known as the “J. SriRanga Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lankafor the purpose of effectually carrying out and transactingall objects and matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the J. Sri Ranga Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. of 2017.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of the“J. Sri Ranga Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the“Foundation “) or shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetualsuccession under the name and style of “J. Sri RangaFoundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in allcourts, with full power and authority to have and use acommon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:–

(a)to participate in social, cultural and economicdevelopment of the country;

(b)to give assistance to develop religious centres;

Preamble.

Short title.

25

Incorporationof the J. Sri

RangaFoundation.

GeneralObjects oftheCorporation.

2J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

(c)to implement leadership programs;

(d)to advise and assist all communities in Sri lanka tolive in peace and harmony;

(e)to implement academic and training programmesrelevant for environmental conservation of ruralareas;

(f)to establish information technology centres for theadvancement of scientific studies;

(g)to implement social mobilization programs andeducational and training programmes for thedevelopment of the children and women;

(h)to assist in the development of educational,religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilitieswithout any reference to race, religion or cast;

(i)to protect descipline and cultural values and to makeprovisions for their maintenance;

(j)To improve artistic, sports and technical knowledgeof school leavers and to set up vocational trainingcenters; and

(k) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreigninstitutions which have similar objects.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the timebeing of the Corporation be administered by a Board ofDirectors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurerand another eleven members elected in accordance with suchrules.

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation.

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)3

5

10

15

20

(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Board of Administration of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act,

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or anyincluding the power to open, operate and close bankaccounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,to receive or collect grants, donations, to invest its funds,and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servantsrequired for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting of the members and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:-

(a)Classification , admission, withdrawal, expulsionor resignation of members and the membership feespayable;

(b)procedure to be observed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theBoard of Directors, the quorum for such meetingsand the exercise and performance of their powersand duties;

(c)the appointments, powers, duties and functions ofthe various officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

25

30

GeneralPowers of theCorporation.

Rules of theCorporation.

4J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

(d)qualifications required to become a member of theCorporation and of the Board of Directors; and

(e)the administration and management of the propertyof the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under the above subsection.

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Corporation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

8.(1)The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way ofgifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, feesor grants for and on account of the corporation shall bedeposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or morebanks as the Board of Directors shall determine.

(2)There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable and immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation.

Fund of theCorporation.

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable.

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)5

5

10

15

20

25

Propertyremaining ondissolution.

all such property shall be held by the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for thetime being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among their members.

11.(1) All moneys received and expended by theCorporation shall be examined and audited at least once inevery year by an auditor or auditors appointed by the Boardof Directors.

(2)The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(3)The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by an auditor orauditors appointed by the Board of Directors and the Incomeand Expenditure, accounts and balance sheet be certified.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever expect in the presence of suchnumber of persons as may be provided for in the rules inforce for the time being of the Corporation, who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

Audit andaccounts oftheCorporation.

Seal of theCorporation.

6J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.5

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body corporate.

14. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation)7

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.