I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2142$75 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'09'27No. 2142/75 - FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 31130— 27 (09/2019)

SERVICE MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA VALUATION SERVICE

Following Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service of the Department of Valuation of Sri Lanka is substitutedwithout prejudice to any action taken or purported to have been taken in terms of the Service Minute of the Sri LankaValuation Service of the Department of Valuation of Sri Lanka published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1051/12dated 29th of October 1998 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made thereto fromtime to time.

By order of the Public Service Commission,

M.A.B. DAYA SENARATH,Secretary, Public Service Commission.

No. 1200 / 9, Rajamalwatta Road,Battaramulla,16th of September 2019.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20192A

01. Name of the Minute and the Effective Date :-Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service shall come into force with effect from 27.09.2019

02. Appointing Authority :-Officers of the Executive Service Category : Public Service Commission

Assisstant Valuer (Field / Office based Officers Segment 2) : Chief Valuer on whom powers have been delegatedby the Public Service Commission

03. Service Category / Service Categories :-

I Senior Executive-Special GradeII Executive- Grade IGrade IIGrade III

III Field / Office based Officers Segment 2 -Grade IGrade II

04. General definition of the role assigned :-

Valuation of properties and provision of directions on property management for public, provincial council andlocal government institutions and statutory boards including government affiliated institutions inclusive of thevaluation of all state properties and the properties acquired by the government for statutory and non statutorypurposes.

05. Salaries :-

5.1 Salary Code NumberSenior Executive- SL – 3- 2016Executive- SL – 1- 2016Field / Office based Officers Segment 2– MN – 5- 2016

5.2 Salary ScaleSenior Executive- Rs. 88000- 12 x 2700 –120400Executive- Rs. 47615- 10 x 1335-8x1630-17x2170 – 110895

Field / Office based Officers Segment 2-Rs. 34605-10x660-11x755-15x930 - 63460

5.3 Initial salary step and salary point applicable to grade system

Category of serviceInitial salary stepInitial salary point(Rs.)

Special GradeStep 1 (SL-3-2016)88,000.00

Class I Grade IStep 20 (SL-1-2016)76,175.00

Class I Grade IIStep 12 (SL-1-2016)62,595.00

Class I Grade IIIStep 1 (SL-1-2016)47,615.00

Class II Grade IStep 12 (MN-5-2016)41,960.00

Class II Grade IIStep 1 (MN-5-2016)34,605.00

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20193A

06. Posts asssociated with the Service :-

6.1 Approved designations, Number of approved posts and grades :

ApprovedNumber ofClass / GradeFunctionsdesignationsapprovedfor whichpostsposts havebeen approved

Chief Valuer01Special(Senior Executive)Provision of directions in the subject of propertyvaluation and property management to the clientinstitutions based on the requests for statutory and nonstatutory purposes. Management and organization ofthe Department of Valuation in conformity with theinstitutional and financial regulations and deligation ofpowers and functions amongst the officers and theoverall supervision of the activities of the Departmenttowards that end as the Head of the Department.Provision of directions, making orders, issuingcirculars and execution of the professional taskswhenever appropriate.

Additional Chief04SpecialValuer(Senior Executive)

Taking necessary steps to carry out functions involvingproperty valuation and property management forstatutory and non statutory purposes on the requestsmade by the client institutions.Identification of themethods and plans required in achieving the targetsrelated to each subject area assigned by the Chief Valuer,giving necessary directions as appropriate andprofessional tasks.

Deputy Chief16Class IValuer (Executive)Grade IImplementation of the plans and methods identifiedtowards achieving the assigned targets relating to eacharea of subject in carrying out the tasks involving theproperty valuation and the management of all state andother properties taken over by the government forstatutory and non statutory purposes within an efficientand fruitful management structure competitively as wellas being in cognizance of the cost effectiveness,professional tasks and the preparation of theprogrammes on such professional work as appropriate.

Senior Valuer80Class I(Executive)Grade IIImplementation, supervision and liaison of the plansand methods identified towards achieving the assignedtargets relating to each area of subject in carrying outthe tasks involving the property valuation and themanagement of all state and other properties taken overby the government for statutory and non statutorypurposes within an efficient and fruitful managementstructure competitively as well as being in cognizanceof the cost effectiveness and the entailed professionalwork.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20194A

ApprovedNumber ofClass / GradeFunctionsdesignationsapprovedfor whichpostsposts havebeen approved

Valuer (Executive)120Class IGrade IIICollection of information, analysation of information,preparation of reports for the valuation work involvingstatutory and non statutory purposes, properimplementation of the programmes and plans ofproperty valuation and their managerial tasks that areperiodically assigned to be carried out in an efficientand fruitful manner whilst being in cognizance of thecost effectiveness.

Assistant Valuer(Field /360Class IIOffice based OfficersGrade I /Segment 2)Class IIGrade II

Collection of information, analysation, preparation ofvaluation reports for the valuation work involvingstatutory and non statutory purposes, other field andoffice based professional work assigned by thesupervisory officers and the tasks assigned asappropriate.

6.2 Consolidated Number of officers :-

Chief Valuer -01Additional Chief Valuer -04Deputy Chief Valuer - 16Senior Valuer -80216Valuer-120Assistant Valuer -360360

All Grades of III, II and I are considered as belonging to the number of consolidated officers for the purposeof grade to grade promotion.

6.3 Nature of the post / posts :- Permanent and pensionable. (Shall be subject to the policy decisions made by the government in thefuture on the pension scheme.)07. Percentages of Recruitment :-

7.1

Class and GradeStreamPercentages

Field / Office based Officers Segment 2,Open100%

Class II Grade II of the Sri LankaLimited-

Valuation ServiceMerit-

Category of Executive Officers, Class IOpen20%

Grade III of the Sri LankaLimited20%

Valuation ServiceMerit60%

05

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20195A

7.2 Open Recruitment - Method of Recruitment to the post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade II in thecategory of Field / Office based Officers Segment 2.

7.2.1 Grade at Recruitment - Class II Grade II

7.2.2 Qualifications :-

7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications :-

Should possess the Bachelor of Science Special Degree in Property Management and Valuationrecognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri Lanka or be a Chartered Valuer with themembership of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors in the United Kingdom.

7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications :- Not applicable.

7.2.2.3 Experience :- Not applicable.

7.2.2.4 Physical Fitnesss :-

Every candidate should be in a sound physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the islandand discharge duties in the post concerned.

7.2.2.5 Other Qualifications :-

I. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka. II. Should be of an excellent moral character. III. The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for thecompetitive examination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidatehas completed all the relevant qualifications and the stipulated age limit in every respect asat the date set out in the notice calling for applications.

7.2.3 Age :-

7.2.3.1 Minimum limit :- Not less than 21 years

7.2.3.2 Maximum limit :- Not more than 35 years

7.2.4 Method of Recruitment :-Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Those whoare eligible will be selected subsequent to subjecting a number of canditates equal to that of the candidatesexpected to be recruited to a general interview in the order of merit of the aggregate marks of thosecandidates who have passed the written examination.

7.2.4.1 Written Examination (Syllabus shown in Annex – 06)

SubjectsMaximumMinimum Marks to beMarkssecured for a pass

Subject related Question10040Paper, Part I

Subject related Question10040Paper, Part II

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20196A

7.2.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :- Commissioner General of Examinations

7.2.4.2 Professional Test :- Not applicable

7.2.4.3 General Interview :-

Objectives expected to be achieved - No marks will be awarded and scrutiny of qualificationswill only take place.

7.2.4.3.1 Authority appointing the general interview board :-By the Chief Valuer

7.2.4.4 Interview evaluating the eligibilities :- Not applicable

7.2.5 Method of inviting applications :- Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in thegovernment gazette, newspapers and via website.

7.2.6 Limited Recruitment - Not applicable

7.2.7 Recruitment on merit basis - Not applicable

7.3 Open Recruitment – Method of recruitment to the post of Valuer of Class I Grade III of the Sri LankaValuation Service in the category of executive officers.

7.3.1 Grade at Recruitment - Class I Grade III in the category of executive officers

7.3.2 Qualifications :-

7.3.2.1 Educational Qualifications :-

Should have obtained a first or second class honest pass in the Bachelor of Science SpecialDegree in Property Management and Valuation recognized by the University Grants Commissionof Sri Lanka or,

should have passed the final examination of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors (GeneralDivision) in the United Kingdom.

7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications :- Not applicable.

7.3.2.3 Experience :- Not applicable.

7.3.2.4 Physical Fitnesss :-

Every candidate should be in an appropriate physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of theisland and discharge duties in the post concerned.

7.3.2.5 Other Qualifications :-

I. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.II. Should be of an excellent moral character.III. The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for the competitiveexamination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidate has completed allthe relevant qualifications and the stipulated age limit in every respect as at the date set out in thenotice calling for applications.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20197A

7.3.3 Age :-

7.3.3.1 Minimum Limit :- Not less than 21 years

7.3.3.2 Maximum Limit :- Not more than 35 years

7.3.4 Method of Recruitment :-

Officers who have met with basic qualifications will be recruited for the vacant positions subsequentto subjecting them to a general interview on the results of a written examination in the order of meritof the aggregate marks of such written examination.

7.3.4.1 Written Examination (Syllabus shown in Annex – 07)

SubjectsMaximumMinimum Marks to beMarkssecured for a pass

Subject related Question Paper(Mutiple choice question paper)10040

Subject related Question Paper(Essay type question paper)10040

7.3.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :- Commissioner General of Examinations

7.3.4.2 Professional Qualifications :- Not applicable.

7.3.4.3 General Interview :-

Objectives expected to be achieved - No marks will be awarded and scrutiny of qualificationswill only take place.

NOTE - The number of candidates to be called for the interview will be decided upon by theAppointing Authority in accordance with the order of merit of the marks the candidates securedat the written examination and the number of candidates to be recruited as appropriate.

7.3.4.3.1 Authority appointing the general interview board :- Public Service Commission

7.3.4.4 Interview evaluating the eligibilities :- Not applicable

7.3.5 Method of inviting applications :- Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in thegovernment gazette, newspapers and via website.

7.4 Limited Recruitment – Method of recruitment to the post of Valuer of Class I Grade III of the Sri LankaValuation Service in the category of executive officers.

7.4.1 Grade at Recruitment - Class I Grade III in the category of executive officers

7.4.2 Qualifications :-

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20198A

7.4.2.1 Educational Qualifications and Experience :-

Educational QualificationsOfficers who are in the post of Assistant Valuer with a Bachelor of Science Special Degree inProperty Management and Valuation recognized by the University Grants Commission of SriLanka or,

Officers who are in the post of Assistant Valuer holding the position of Chartered Valuer with themembership of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors in the United Kingdom.

ExperienceShould have completed five (05) year period of active and satisfactory service in Class II GradeII of and earned five (05) salary increments or should be an Assistant Valuer in Class II Grade I.

7.4.2.2 Professional Qualifications :- Not applicable

7.4.2.3 Physical Fitnesss :-

Every candidate should be in an appropriate physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of SriLanka and discharge duties in the post concerned.

7.4.2.4 Other :-

I. Should be an officer confirmed in service of the post of Assistant Valuer.

II. Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination stipulated for Class II Grade II of theAssistant Valuer.

III. Should have completed a five (05) year period of active and satisfactory service immediatelyprior to the date indicated in the gazette notice calling for applications.

IV. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment during the immediatelypreceding period of five (05) years.

V. The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for thewritten examination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidate hascompleted all the relevant qualifications in every respect as at the date set out in the noticecalling for applications.

7.4.3 Age :- Not applicable

7.4.4 Method of Recruitment :-Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and an interview for evaluating theeligibility.

7.4.4.1 Written Examination (Syllabus shown in Annex – 08)

SubjectsMaximumMinimum Marks to beMarkssecured for a pass

Subject related Question Paper(Multiple choice)10050

Subject related QuestionPaper (Essay)10050

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20199A

7.4.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :- Commissioner General of Examinations

7.4.4.2 Professional Qualifications :- Not applicable

7.4.4.3 General Interview :- Not applicable

7.4.4.4 Interview for evaluating the eligibility :-

Candidates constituting twice the number of vacancies as per the register in alphabetical orderobtained from the Authority conducting the written examination in accordance with the order ofmerit of the marks the candidates secured at the limited competitive examination will be calledfor the interview for evaluating the eligibility. Scrutiny of the basic qualifications will also bemade at the interview for evaluating the eligibility.

Main Headings for whichMaximum MarksMinimum Marksmarks are awardedconsidered for selection

Additional educational35qualifications

Additional professionalqualifications25

Additional experience25Not applicable

Other qualifications10

Performance demonstrated05at the interview

Total100

Note:-

1. At the time of the recruitment, a detailed marking scheme inclusive of the maximum marksallocated to the main marks awarding areas set out in the table above will be approved bythe Public Service Commission and the said detailed marking scheme will be publishedafter having it included in the notice calling for applications concerned.2. Recruitment to the post will be made in accordance with the order of merit secured at thewritten examination and the interview for evaluating the eligibility and the number of existingvacancies.3. Marks of the written examination will not be made available to the board of interview forevaluating the eligibility.

7.4.4.4.1 Authority appointing the board of interview for evaluating the eligibility :- PublicService Commission

7.4.5 Method of inviting applications :- Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in thegovernment gazette, newspapers and via website.

7.5 Recruitment on the basis of service experience and merit :-

7.5.1 Grade at Recruitment - Class I Grade III of the executive category of service.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201910A

7.5.2 Qualifications :-

I. Should be an Assistant Valuer in Class II Grade I.

II. Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination of Class II Grade I relating to the Field /Office based officers, Segment 2.

III. Should have completed a five (05) year period of satisfactory service immediately prior to thedate indicated in the gazette notice calling for applications.

IV. Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment during the period of five (05) yearsimmediately prior to the date indicated in the gazette notice calling for applications.

7.5.3 Age :- Not applicable

7.5.4 Method of Recruitment :-

Recruitment will be made on the results of an interview for evaluating the eligibility.

7.5.4.1 Written Examination :- Not applicable

7.5.4.2 Proessional Qualifications :- Not applicable

7.5.4.3 General Interview :- Not applicable

7.5.4.4 Interview for evaluating the eligibility :-

Officers constituting not less than twice the number of vacancies according to the seniority ofsuch officers will be called for the interview for evaluating the eligibility. Scrutiny of the basicqualifications will also be made at the interview for evaluating the eligibility.

Main Headings for whichMaximum MarksMinimum Marksmarks are awardedconsidered for selection

Seniority60

Merit30Not applicable

Interview10

NOTE :-

1. At the time of the recruitment, a detailed marking scheme inclusive of the maximum marksallocated to the main marks awarding areas set out in the table above will be approved bythe Public Service Commission and the said detailed marking scheme will be publishedafter having it included in the notice calling for applications concerned.

2. Recruitment to the post will be made in accordance with the order of merit secured at theinterview for evaluating the eligibility and the existing number of vacancies.

7.5.4.4.1 Authority appointing the board of interview for evaluating the eligibility :- PublicService Commission

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201911A

7.5.5 Method of inviting applications :- Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in thegovernment gazette, newspapers and via website.

08. Efficiency Bars :-

8.1

Which of theBefore how many years theNature of the EfficiencyEfficiency BarsEfficiency Bar to be passedBar – Written Examination /Professional Test /Certificate Course / Other

Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2

1st Efficiency BarPrior to lapse of three years(03) from the recruitment toClass II Grade IIAnnex 01

2nd Efficiency BarPrior to lapse of five years(05) from the promotion toClass II Grade IAnnex 02

Category of Executive Officers

1st Efficiency BarPrior to lapse of three years(03) from the recruitment toClass I Grade IIIAnnex 03

2nd Efficiency BarPrior to lapse of three years(03) from the promotion toClass I Grade IIAnnex 04

3rd Efficiency BarPrior to lapse of five years(05) from the promotion toClass I Grade IAnnex 05

NOTE :- Officers finding it unable to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination during the relevant period in spiteof the fact that they should have passed it as such under the provisions of the Service Minutes that existedprior to the effective date of this Service Minute should complete the Efficiency Bar by getting through thesubjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations held under this Service Minute that correspond to each of thesubjects in terms of the Service Minutes then existed. The corresponding subjects are given in Annex 09.

8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examination is conducted :- Efficiency Bar Examination will be held twice a year.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201912A

8.3 The authority conducting the examinations relevant to the Efficiency Bars :-

For Assistant Valuers in Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2 -

1st Efficiency Bar

2nd Efficiency Bar

For category of Executive Officers -

1st Efficiency Bar

2nd Efficiency Bar

3rd Efficiency Bar

9. Language Proficiency

LanguageProficiency to be acquired

1. Official languageOfficers joined in the Service through a language other than an officiallanguage should acquire relevant language proficiency during the period ofprobation.

2. Other official languageShould acquire the language proficiency at the prescribed level applicableto the category of Field / Office based Officers, Segment II and thecategory of Executive Officers in terms of the Public AdministrationCircular No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto.

10. Grade Promotions :-

10.1 Promotion of Assistant Valuers of Class II Grade II in the category of Field / Office based Officers,Segment 2 to the post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade I of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service.

10.1.1 According to general performance -

10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-

(I) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.(II) Should have completed minimum of a ten (10) year period of active and satisfactory servicein Class II Grade II of the category of Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2 and earnedten (10) salary increments for promotion.(III) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above during a period often (10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approvedprocedure of the performance appraisal.(1V) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) yearsimmediately prior to the date of promotion.(V) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the level applicable tothe category of Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2.(VI) Should have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to the category ofField / Office based Officers, Segment 2 on the due date.

By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer

By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201913A

10.1.2 Method of Promotion :-

When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to theAppointing Authority, promotion to the post of Assistant Valuer, Class II Grade I will be made witheffect from the date on which they fulfill such qualifications after the scrutiny of their qualificationsby the Appointing Authority.

10.2 Promotion of officers in Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service to Class I Grade II inthe category of Executive Officers.

10.2.1 According to general performance -

10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-

(I) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.

(II) Should have completed minimum of a ten (10) year period of active and satisfactory servicein Class I Grade III of the category of Executive Officers and earned ten (10) salaryincrements for promotion.

(III) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above during a period often (10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approvedprocedure of the performance appraisal.

(1V) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05)years immediately prior to the date of promotion.

(V) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the level applicable tothe category of Executive Officers.

(V1) Should have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to the category ofExecutive Officers on the due date.

10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion :-

When the officer concerned who has fulfilled qualifications makes a request as per the prescribedform to the Appointing Authority for promotion to Class I Grade II, the promotion will be madewith effect from the date on which such officer fulfills relevant qualifications after the scrutinyof his qualifications by the Appointing Authority.

10.3 Promotion of officers in Class I Grade II of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service to Class I Grade I in thecategory of Executive Officers.

10.3.1 According to general performance -

10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-

(I) Should have completed a seven (07) year period of active and satisfactory service in ClassI Grade II of the category of Executive Officers and earned seven (07) salary incrementsdue.

(II) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above all throughout theperiod of seven (07) years immediately preceding the date of promotion in accordancewith the approved procedure of the performance appraisal.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201914A

(III) Should have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to Class I Grade II ofthe category of Executive Officers on the due date.

(IV) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) yearsimmediately prior to the date of promotion.

(V) Should have obtained a Post Graduate Degree in Property Management and Valuationreccognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri Lanka or a Post Graduate Degreein Property Management at the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors in the UnitedKingdom.

10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion :-

When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form tothe Appointing Authority for promotion to Class I Grade I, the promotion will be made witheffect from the date on which such officers fulfill relevant qualifications after the scrutiny oftheir qualifications by the Appointing Authority.

NOTE :-The promotion should be deferred by a period equal to the period of time the officer spent topass the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.

10.4 Promotion of officers in Class I Grade I of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service to the Special Grade inthe category of Senior Executive Officers.

10.4.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-

(I) Should have completed a five (05) year period of active and satisfactory service as an officer inClass I Grade I of the category of Executive Officers by officers qualifying for promotion andearned five (05) salary increments after the promotion to Class I Grade I.

(II) Should have completed a period of active and satisfactory service not less than eighteen (18)years in the category of Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service as at the datequalifying for promotion.

(I11) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) yearsimmediately prior to the date qualifying for promotion and should not have been subject to anydisciplinary punishment.

NOTE :-Those officers who are absorbed into Class I Grade I and not having fulfilled the qualificationsspecified under 10.3.1.1 (V) or those who are promoted to Class I Grade I without meeting withthe qualifications specified under 10.3.1.1 (V) should complete the qualifications specified under10.3.1.1 (V) for promotion to Special Grade.

10.4.2 Method of Promotion :-

When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to theAppointing Authority for promotion to Special Grade, the promotions will be made by the PublicService Commission on the results of an interview for evaluating the eligibility.

A number of officers forwarding applications not less than twice the number of vacancies will becalled for the interview for evaluating the eligibility according to the seniority of such officers. Scrutinyof the basic qualifications will also be made at the interview for evaluating the eligibility.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201915A

Main Headings for which marks are awardedMaximum MarksMinimum Marks considered forselection

Seniority60

Merit30Not applicable

Marks awarded at the interview10

Marks assigned for merit will be awarded for additional educational qualifications, additional professionalqualifications and for presentation on the relevant field.

NOTE :-

1. At the time of the recruitment, a detailed marking scheme inclusive of the maximum marks allocated to themain marks awarding areas set out in the table above will be approved by the Public Service Commission andthe said detailed marking scheme will be published after having it included in the notice calling for applicationsconcerned.2. Recruitment to the post will be made in accordance with the order of merit secured at the interview forevaluating the eligibility and the number of existing vacancies.

11. Appointment to Posts :-

PostQualificationsMethod of Selection

Chief ValuerWill be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers.

Additional ChiefShould be an officer inValuerSpecial Grade

Deputy ChiefShould be an officer inValuerClass I Grade I

Senior ValuerShould be an officer inClass I Grade I / Class I Grade II

Will be appointed by the Public Service Commissionfrom among the officers in Special Grade of the SriLanka Valuation Service based on the seniority andmerit.

Will be appointed by the Public Service Commissionfrom among the officers in Class I Grade I of the SriLanka Valuation Service based on the merit andseniority. (Seniority 80% Merit 20%)

Areas for which marksNumber ofare awardedMarks

Additional educational05qualifications

Additional professional05qualifications

Presentation relating to05the field concerned

Performance shown at the05interview

Will be appointed by the Public Service Commissionfrom among the officers in Class I Grade I / Class IGrade II of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201916A

12. Conditions governing the Service :-

12.1 Conditions relating to Confirmation :-

This is a service confined to the Department of Valuation. However, officers can be appointed to serve in anypart of the island within the Department. The Assistant Valuers recruited through the open competitveexamination to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service under the category of Field / Office basedOfficers, Segment 2 of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service and the Valuers recruited through the open competitveexamination to Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service under the category of Executive Officersof the Sri Lanka Valuation Service will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years whereas theofficers recruited to the post of Valuer in Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service under thecategory of Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service on the limited, seniority and merit basiswill be subject to an acting period of one (01) year. The officers will be confimed in their respective posts iftheir work, attendance and conduct are at the level higher than the satisfactory mark provided they meet withthe requirements associated with the Minute.

12.2 Training and Development :-

Measures will be taken to expose the officers towards training and development activities within theopportunities available in the context of the standards of allocations for training in the public service withoutcausing any impediment to their official duties.

13. Interpretation and Definitions :-

1. “Gazette” means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.II. “Service Minute” means the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service.III. “Service” means Sri Lanka Valuation Service.IV. “Secretary” means Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Finance.V. “Period of Active Service” means the period of service of an officer drawing the salary assigned to his postexcluding any period of no pay leave other than periods of approved no pay leave for specific purposes,which have been recognized by the Cabinet of Ministers.

14. Absorption of officers in service into the new system of grades

14.1 It is applicable only for those who are in service as at the date on which this procedure takes effect. Allofficers drawing salaries under the salary scale of MN 5 - 2006 - A as provided by the Public AdministrationCircular No. 06/2006 and the Circulars incidental thereto on the due date will be absorbed as follows subjectto the provisions of Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

Period of service will be calculated on the basis of the date appointed to each post. However, due to absorption,the date of increment of the person concerned should not be changed and such date should continue to beeffective as the increment date that remained prior to the absorption. Likewise, due to reason that the salarystep of the person concerned was drawing last corresponds to the new salary step, he should not be placed onthe next higher salary step either in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

(i) Class II Grade II

(a) Officers who have not completed at least ten (10) years of service in the post of Assistant DistrictValuer of Class III Grade II.

(b) Officers who have not fulfilled qualifications for promotion to Class III Grade I in terms of theexisted Service Minute despite the completion of at least ten (10) years of service in the post ofAssistant District Valuer of Class III Grade II will be absorbed into the post of Assistant Valuerof Class II Grade II.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201917A

(ii) Class II Grade I

(a) Officers who have completed at least ten (10) years of service in the post of Assistant DistrictValuer of Class III Grade II and earned a minimum of ten (10) salary increments during the periodconcerned and fulfilled qualifications for promotion to Class III Grade I in terms of the ServiceMinute that was effective before the new Service Minute came into force, and

(b) Officers who are engaged in service in the post of Assistant District Valuer of Class III Grade I,

will be absorbed into the post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade I.

(iii) To SL- 1

(a) Officers who are in Class II Grade II under the Salary Code SL-1 as at the effective date of thisService Minute will be absorbed into Class I Grade III of the Service.

(b) Officers who are in Class II Grade I under the Salary Code SL-1 as at the effective date of thisService Minute will be absorbed into Class I Grade II of the Service.

(c) Officers who are in Class I Grade II under the Salary Code SL-1 as at the effective date of thisService Minute will be absorbed into Class I Grade I of the Service.

(iv) To SL- 03

(a) Officers who are in Class I Grade I under the Salary Code SL-3 as at the effective date of thisService Minute will be absorbed into the Special Grade of the Service.

NOTE I :The excess period of active and satisfactory service in addition to the period of service requiredto absorb into each grade under the provisions of absorption will be reckoned as the period ofactive and satisfactory service in the grade into which the absorption is made.

NOTE II:

The officers who received/will receive promotions pursuant to the approval of the Public ServiceCommission in terms of the former Service Minute will be absorbed into the same grade towhich they received their promotions according to the new titles of posts, grades and number ofposts of the cadre approved by the letter No. DMS/1166/III dated 17.05.2017 of the Departmentof Management Services.

NOTE III:

The provisions referred to in (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of 14 above are applicable to the other officers

15. Interim Provisions –. Measures that have not been finalized as at the effective date of the Service Minute andthose that have been met with the approval of the Public Service Commission after initiating action to grantpromotion in terms of the Former Service Minute will be dealt with the provisions of the former Service Minute.

16. Other :-

(i) In the case of every appointment, conditions laid down in the Procedural Rules of the Public ServiceCommission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the provisions ofthe Establishments Code are applicable.

(ii) Decision on any matter not provided for in this Minute will be made by the Public Service Commission.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201918A

Annex - 01

1st Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class II Grade II in the Service Category of Field / Officcebased Officers, Segment – 2 of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotalMinimumMarksPass Marks

Part I (Practical Test) Preparation of03 Hours10040Condition Report

Part II (Practical Test)06 Hours10040Valuation for Rating

02. Authority conducting the Examination : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.

03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.

04. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Part IPreparation of ConditionReport(Practical Test)

Part II(Practical Test)Valuation for Rating

Annex - 02

2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class II Grade I in the Service Category of Field / Officcebased Officers, Segment – 2 of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotal Marks Minimum Pass Marks

Part I

(a)Administration and Finance02 Hours10040

(b)Departmental Organization and Administration02 Hours10040

(c)Capital Valuation03 Hours10040

Part II

(a)Preparation of a comprehensive Valuation03 Hours10040Report of a given property for a specifiedpurpose.

Preparation of a Condition Report of a given property within a specifiedtime.

Procedure involved in the identification of hereditaments, taking theirmeasurements, sketching and numbering including office based workrelated thereto.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201919A

02. Authority conducting the Examination : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.

03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.

04. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Part I(a) Administrationand Finance

(b) Departmental Organizationand Administration

(c) Capital Valuation

Part II(a) Preparation ofa comprehensive ValuationReport of a given propertyfor a specified purpose.

Annex - 03

1st Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class I Grade III in the Category of Executive Officers of theSri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksMinimum Pass Marks

Part I(a) Financial Management andProcurement Procedure of thepublic sector

(b) Administration

Part II(a) Applied Valuation03 Hours10050

(b) Management of Valuation03 Hours10050Units

02. Authority conducting the Examination :i. Part I : Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.ii. Part II : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.

Chapters II, III, IV, XI, XII, XIV, XIX, XXV, XXVI and XXVII of theEstablishments Code and F.R. 2, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 135, 136, 137,138 and 139 of the Financial Regulations.

Departmental Organization Structure, Delegation of Powers, DepartmentalRegulations and Office Systems.

Classification procedure in respect of different classes of properties,methods of valuation for compulsory acquisition, estimates, sale / purchaseand taxation purposes.

In the preparation of a report, the candidate is expected to inspect theproperty as per the given instructions, analyze the given data and suggest avaluation of the property, assuming the additional data. Although the accuracyof the valuation is not materially significant, the methodology and theapproach to the valuation within the legal framework will be considered asimportant.

Officers of Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service shouldsit for these subjects applicable to the 1st Efficiency Bar Examinationconducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations for Class IIGrade II of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service and the duration andthe pass marks pertaining to such examination are applicable to theseofficers as well. Canditates may sit for one subject at a time or both thesubjects at one sitting.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201920A

03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.

04. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Part I(a) Financial Managementand ProcurementProcedureof the public sector

(b) Administration

Part II(a) Applied Valuation

(b) Management of ValuationUnits

Annex - 04

2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class I Grade II in the Category of Executive Officers of theSri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksMinimum Pass Marks

Part I03 Hours10050(a) Advance Valuation

02. Authority conducting the Examination : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.

03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.

04. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Part II(a) Advance Valuation

The syllabus pertaining to the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination conductedby the Commissioner General of Examination for officers in Class III ofthe Sri Lanka Administrative Service is applicable for this purpose.

Valuation Systems and Principles in practice, Stautory Valuations such asvaluation under the Land Acquisition Act etc., Valuation of Agriculturaland Mineral Resources, Valuation of Assets and Goodwill.

Application of Departmental Orders and Circulars in the management ofvaluation units, Duties of Public Management Assistants and supportingstaffs, Progress Control of the Unit, Relationship with the Regional Valuer,Delegation of Powers in the financial management, Establishment Mattersin the Unit, Security of the Unit and the Disciplinary Procedure.

(1) Valuations for capital and rating activities in relation to special purposeproperties such as Airports, Golf Courses, Licensed Liquor Sales Centers,Recreational and Sports Complexes, Shopping Complexes, Hotels withboarding facilities, public utility properties and Condominium propertiesetc. and the principles governing the valuation of lands bearing mineralresources.(2) Preparation of financial statements of companies for valuation purposes withnecessary adjustments.(3) Application of various principles of Land Economics and Concepts tovaluation methods and the valuation in markets with less information.(4) This question paper will include essay type questions as well as problemsrelating to valuation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201921A

Annex - 05

3rd Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class I Grade I in the Category of Executive Officers of theSri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

The requirement of passing over of the third (3rd) Efficiency Bar Examination will be met with by successfullycompleting the Course in Capacity Building Level - I conducted by an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.

02. Authority conducting the Course : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.

03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.

04. Syllabus for the Examination : Not applicable.

NOTE : Officers who have served a period of service more than five (05) years in Grade I and earned more thanfive (05) salary increments will be exempted from the third (3rd) Efficiency Bar Examination.

A concessionary period of five (05) years as from the date on which this Service Minute meets with approval willbe granted to those other officers who were absorbed.

Annex - 06

Open Competitve Entry Examination for recruitment of Assistant Valuers toClass II Grade II in the category of Field / Office based Officers - Segment 2 ofthe Sri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksMinimum PassMarks

Question Paper (I)30 Minutes10040

Question Paper (II)01 & 1/2 Hours10040

02. Authority conducting the Examination : By the Commissioner General of Examinations.

03. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Question Paper 1

Question Paper 2

This paper will contain not more than 25 multiple choice questionspertaining to subjects expected to be covered in a Bachelor of ScienceDegree in Estate Management and Valuation.

This paper will contain essay type and structural type questions inclusiveof topics pertaining to subject areas expected to be covered in a Bachelorof Science Degree in Estate Management and Valuation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201922A

Annex - 07

Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment of Valuers to Class I Grade III in the Category ofExecutive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksMinimum Pass Marks

Subject related30 Minutes10040Question Paper(Multiple choiceQuestion Paper)

Subject related02 Hours10040Question Paper(Essay typeQuestion Paper)

02. Authority conducting the Examination : By the Commissioner General of Examinations.

03. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Subject relatedQuestion Paper(Multiple choiceQuestion Paper)

Subject relatedQuestion Paper(Essay typeQuestion Paper)

Annex - 08

Limited Competitve Examination conducted for appointment of Assistant Valuersin the category of Field / Office based Officers - Segment 2 to the post ofValuer of Class I Grade III in the Category of Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service

01. Particulars of the Examination :-

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksMinimum Pass Marks

Subject related Question Paper01 Hour10050(Multiple choice Question Paper)

Subject related Question Paper02 Hours10050(Essay type Question Paper)

This paper will contain not more than 25 multiple choice questions pertainingto subjects expected to be covered in a Bachelor of Science Degree in EstateManagement and Valuation.

This paper will contain essay type and structural type questions preparedwith topics pertaining to subject areas of Property Valuation and related fields,particularly with regard to Land Economics, property market and investmentmarket and it is expected to test the in-depth knowledge of the candidates inthese subject areas.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201923A

02. Authority conducting the Examination : By the Commissioner General of Examinations.

03. Syllabus for the Examination :

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

Subject related Question Paper(Multiple choice QuestionPaper)

Subject related Question Paper(Essay type QuestionPaper)

Annex - 09

Corresponding Efficiency Bar Examination Subjects under each of the Service Minutes

This paper will contain not more than 50 multiple choice questionspertaining to subject areas expected to be covered in a Bachelor of ScienceDegree in Estate Management and Valuation.

This is an essay type question paper designed to test the candidate’sexperience and the knowledge in the principles of valuation, statutoryprovisions and regulations as well as the knowledge in Property Market,Town Planning and Land Economics.

The Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valution ServicePublished in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1051/12 dated29.10.1998 as amended by the Gazettes No. 1157/04 dated06.11.2000 and No.1499/5 dated 28.05.2007

Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2Class III Grade II of the Sri LankaValuationService

Preparation of a Condition Report1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Valuation for Rating1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2Class III Grade I of the Sri LankaValuationService

Administration and Finance2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Departmental Organization and Administration2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Capital Valuation2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Preparation of a comprehensive Valuation Reportof a given property for a specified purpose2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

This Service Minute

Field / Office based Officers,Segment 2Class II Grade II of theSri Lanka Valuation Service

Preparation of a Condition Report1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Valuation for Rating1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Field / Office based Officers,Segment 2Class II Grade I of the Sri LankaValuation Service

Administration and Finance2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Departmental Organization andAdministration2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Capital Valuation2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Preparation of a comprehensiveValuation Report of a givenproperty for a specifiedpurpose2nd Efficiency BarExamination

02.

01.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201924A

Category of Executive OficersClass II Grade IIIof the Sri Lanka Valuation Service

Financial Regulations1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Administration1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Applied Valuation1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Management of Valuation Units1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Category of Executive OficersClass II Grade II of the Sri LankaValuation Service

Advance Valuation2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Category of Executive OficersClass I Grade II of the Sri LankaValuation Service

None

Category of Executive Oficers

Class I Grade III of the SriLankaValuation Service

Financial Management and ProcurementProcedure of the public sector1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Administration1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Applied Valuation1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Management of Valuation Units1st Efficiency Bar Examination

Category of Executive OficersClass I Grade II of the SriLankaValuation Service

Advance Valuation2nd Efficiency Bar Examination

Category of Executive OficersClass I Grade II of the SriLankaValuation Service

Obtaining a certificate after the successfulcompletion of the Course in CapacityBuilding Level – I conducted by aninstitution approved by the Chief Valuer.

3rd Efficiency Bar Examination

(The officers who have completed a periodof service of five (05) years in Class I/I(including the period of service in Class I/II of the old Service Minute) as at theeffective date of this Service Minute willbe reckoned as being successful in the third(3rd) Efficiency Bar Examination andthose officers who have not completed therespective Efficiency Bar as at theeffective date of this Service Minute willbe provided with an interim concessionaryperiod of five (05) years to pass over thisefficiency bar as from the date on whichthis Service Minute comes into force.)

03.

04.

05.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

10 - 420