==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

1A - G 46412 - 04 (03/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

MINISTRY OF ENERGY

Transfer Plan

IN accordance with the Provisions in Paragraph (a) of Sub section 2 of Section 18 of the Sri Lanka Electricity (Amended) Act, No. 36 of 2024, I, Punya Sri Kumara Jayakodi, Minister of Energy, do hereby publish the Transfer Plan for the transition, transfer and reorganization of the Electricity Industry in Sri Lanka, for the information of the public.

Punya Sri Kumara Jayakodi, Minister of Energy.

Colombo,On 10th of March, 2026.

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙˤෂ

අංංක 2479$36 - 2026 මාාර්තු මස 10 වැැනි අඟහරුවාාදාා - 2026'03'10No. 2479/36 - TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 2026

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.20262A

Government of Sri Lanka

Ministry of Energy

Sri Lanka Electricity Industry

Preliminary Transfer Plan

January 2026

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

3A

Index

1. Title................................................................................................................................................3

2. Reference.......................................................................................................................................3

3. Date of Operation..........................................................................................................................3

4. Application of the Preliminary Transfer Plan................................................................................3

5. Definitions.....................................................................................................................................4

6. Preliminary Transfer Plan..............................................................................................................5

6.1. Duties and Functions discharged by the CEB immediately prior to the Appointed Date ............. 5

6.2. Successor Companies....................................................................................................................5

6.3. Classification of Undertakings of the CEB...................................................................................6

6.4. Separation and vesting of Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB to the Successor Companies ................................................................................................................... 6

6.5. Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB...........................8

6.6. Assignation of the CEB Employees to the Successor Companies................................................8

6.7. Provident Fund and Pension Fund of the CEB..............................................................................9

6.8. Corporate Governance and Management Structure....................................................................10

6.9. Allocation of existing Cost Centers and Branches to the Successor Companies........................12

6.10. Provisional Balance Sheets of the Successor Companies...........................................................12

6.11. Transfer of Legal Suits................................................................................................................13

6.12. Transfer of Contracts, Contractual Commitments and Liabilities...............................................13

6.13. Transfer of Licenses, Approvals, Permits and Clearances...........................................................14

6.14. Rights and Obligations of the Third Parties................................................................................15

7. Decision of Government to be Final...........................................................................................15

List of Schedules....................................................................................................................................16

Summary of Schedules..........................................................................................................................17

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.20264A

Government of Sri Lanka

Ministry of Energy

Sri Lanka Electricity Industry

Preliminary Transfer Plan

Preamble

The Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 36 of 2024 and subsequent amendments including Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2025 (hereinafter referred to as the “Electricity Act”), require implementation of reforms to the electricity industry, to provide for the formulation of the national electricity policy as part of the national policy on energy.

Fundamental objective of the Electricity Act is to ensure improved electricity industry performance through independent and accountable corporate entities responsible for the provision and maintenance, of a well-coordinated, efficient and economical system of continuous and reliable electricity supply throughout Sri Lanka at all times, through transparent policies. The Electricity Act facilitates the establishment of independent and accountable corporate entities for the efficient supply of electricity throughout the country, protects the interests of the consumers and facilitates the establishment and functioning of the unbundled electricity sector with the vision of developing the National Electricity Market.

The transition, transfer and reorganization of the electricity industry in Sri Lanka will be guided by the Transfer Plan with detailed plans, proposals and strategies for the unbundling of the activities of the Ceylon Electricity Board (hereinafter referred to as the “CEB”) relating to the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity. The Transfer Plan has two parts: the Preliminary Transfer Plan and the Final Transfer Plan.

The Preliminary Transfer Plan contains all details of the vesting of the activities relating to the restructuring of the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity as well as a financial plan for the vesting of assets and liabilities which shall be initially required for the successor companies to commence operations. The Final Transfer Plan comprises the process of implementation of all remaining matters required to complete the restructuring of the electricity industry.

This Preliminary Transfer Plan comprises, required by subsection (3) of section 18 of the Electricity Act, including but not limited to details of the vesting of the activities of the CEB relating to the restructuring of the electricity generation based on hydro, thermal and renewable energy sources, electricity transmission services and maintenance of the National Grid of Sri Lanka, electricity demand forecasting and planning, procurement of electricity and sale in bulk form, economic dispatch of electricity, the management, including operation and maintenance of the System Control Centre and National Grid of Sri Lanka operation including transmission network expansion planning, electricity distribution and supply. The Preliminary Transfer Plan introduces the successor companies incorporated to take over the duties, functions, assets and liabilities of the CEB. Further it describes the mechanism of transfer and assignation of divisions, branches, units, functions and employees of the CEB to the successor companies. The Preliminary Transfer Plan also provides the provisional financial statements with vesting of assets and liabilities initially required for the successor companies to commence operations.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

5A

1. Title

This plan shall be cited as the “Sri Lanka Electricity Industry Preliminary Transfer Plan” (hereinafter referred to as the “Preliminary Transfer Plan”).

2. Reference

The Preliminary Transfer Plan has been prepared by the Power Sector Reforms Secretariat (hereinafter referred to as the “PSRS”) established under section 38 of the Electricity Act according to the policy directions of the Minister assigned the subject of electricity (hereinafter referred to as the “Minister”), in consultation with the Minister assigned the subject of Finance and the Secretary to the Treasury.

The technical sections of the Preliminary Transfer Plan, including allocation of existing cost centers and branches to the successor companies, registers of assets, contracts, contractual commitments, liabilities, licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the CEB have been prepared in consultation with the General Manager and Additional General Managers of the CEB and the Board of Directors of the successor companies.

The financial plan as part of the Preliminary Transfer Plan for the vesting of assets and liabilities which shall be initially required for the successor companies to commence operations has been prepared in consultation with the Finance Managers and Additional Finance Managers of the CEB.

The technical schedules of the Preliminary Transfer Plan have been prepared in consultation with the relevant officers of the CEB who function as members of Steering Committees established by the Secretary to the Ministry of Energy to facilitate the PSRS in the reforms and restructuring of the CEB.

The initial draft of the Preliminary Transfer Plan was shared with the employees of the CEB for their comments and observations.

3. Date of Operation

(a) The Preliminary Transfer Plan shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and thereafter to be published in the Gazette by the Minister on the day immediately succeeding the Appointed Date.

(b) The Preliminary Transfer Plan shall be deemed to come into operation with effect from the Appointed Date

pursuant to publication in the Gazette as required by the Electricity Act.

4. Application of the Preliminary Transfer Plan

(a) The Preliminary Transfer Plan shall be applied to the assets, properties, employees, officers, servants, staff,

interests, undertakings, rights, ownerships, shareholdings, proceedings, liabilities, duties, functions and activities of the CEB.

(b) The Preliminary Transfer Plan shall facilitate the transition and/or transfer and/or reorganization of the electricity industry in Sri Lanka.

(c) The Preliminary Transfer Plan contains -

(i) all details of the vesting and allocation of the duties, functions and activities of the CEB including the legal ownership relating to the restructuring of the electricity generation based on hydro, thermal and renewable energy sources, electricity transmission services and maintenance of the National Grid of Sri Lanka, electricity demand forecasting and planning, procurement of electricity and sale in bulk form, economic dispatch of electricity, the management, including operation and maintenance of the System Control Centre and National Grid of Sri Lanka operation including transmission network expansion planning, electricity distribution and supply; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.20266A

(ii) a financial plan for the vesting of assets and liabilities of the CEB which shall be initially required for

the successor companies to commence operations (including provisional balance sheets, management structures of the successor companies, and allocation of existing cost centers, divisions, branches, units and employees to the successor companies).

5. Definitions

(a) Words and expressions used, but not specifically defined in this Preliminary Transfer Plan shall have the same

meaning as assigned to them in the Electricity Act.

(b) In this Preliminary Transfer Plan, unless the context otherwise requires;

(i) “Appointed Date” means such date as shall be appointed by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette in terms of subsection (2) of section 1 of the Electricity Act.

(ii) “Electricity Act” means the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 36 of 2024 (as amended).

(iii) “Final Transfer Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 18 of the Electricity Act.

(iv) “Interim Cash Flow Agreement” means the agreements that two or more successor companies shall enter into for management of the cash flows for the successor companies and among the successor companies to ensure smooth functioning of cash related transactions and accounting thereof during the Transition Period.

(v) “Government” means the Government of Sri Lanka.

(vi) “Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject of electricity in terms of Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

(vii) “Preliminary Transfer Plan” means the plan referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 18 of the Electricity Act.

(viii) “Registrar of Lands” means the Registrar of Lands defined and described in the provisions of the

Registration of Documents Ordinance (as amended) and having jurisdiction over the districts or divisions in which such lands are situated.

(ix) “Transition Period” means the period beginning from the Appointed Date and ending on the date that the Final Transfer Plan is published in the Gazette in terms of paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 18 of the Electricity Act.

(x) “Undertaking” means the types of undertakings of the CEB as described in Schedules I, II, III, IV, V and VI of the Preliminary Transfer Plan.

6. Preliminary Transfer Plan

6.1. Duties and Functions discharged by the CEB immediately prior to the Appointed Date

(a) Duties and functions discharged by the CEB immediately prior to the Appointed Date, identified and separated as follows shall be allocated and vested to the successor companies referred to in subsection 6.2.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

7A

(i) Duties and functions of the Generation Division of the CEB in electricity generation based on hydro, coal, thermal and renewable energy sources;

(ii) Duties and functions of the Transmission - Wired Operations Division of the CEB in electricity transmission services and maintenance of the National Grid of Sri Lanka;

(iii) Duties and functions of the Transmission - Non-Wired Operations Division of the CEB in electricity demand forecasting and planning, procurement of electricity and sale in bulk form, economic dispatch of electricity, the management, including operation and maintenance of the System Control Centre and National Grid of Sri Lanka operation including transmission network expansion planning;

(iv) Duties and functions of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the CEB in electricity distribution or supply; and

(v) Duties and functions of the Projects Division, Assets Management Division, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division, branches under the Chairman and the General Manager of the CEB which are connected directly to the duties and functions specified in above subparagraphs (i) to (iv), including but not limited to engineering, procurement, construction, contract and project management, civil works and construction projects, training, business and operational strategy, corporate strategy and regulatory affairs, information technology services, finance, personal and human resources management, legal, auditing services and investigation services.

(vi) Duties and functions of the CEB which are not connected directly to the duties and functions specified in above subparagraphs (i) to (iv), including but not limited to support services and facilities, assets and facility management, civil works and buildings, occupational health, safety and environment aspects related services, workshop and ancillary services, security services and employees’ provident fund and pension fund management.

6.2 Successor Companies

(a) In terms of the structure of the electricity industry described in items (a), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i) and (h)(ii) of Schedule I of the Electricity Act respectively, six (6) limited companies incorporated in terms of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 as follows shall take over the assets, liabilities, duties, functions and activities of the CEB.

(i) Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited (EGL);

(ii) National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited (NTNSP);

(iii) National System Operator (Private) Limited (NSO);

(iv) Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited (EDL);

(v) CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited (CEBEF); and

(vi) Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited (EVL).

6.3 Classification of Undertakings of the CEB

(a) The undertakings of the CEB are classified in the following Schedules -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.20268A

(i) Electricity Generation Undertaking as set out in Schedule I;

(ii) Electricity Transmission Undertaking as set out in Schedule II;

(iii) National System Operation Undertaking as set out in Schedule III;

(iv) Electricity Distribution Undertaking as set out in Schedule IV;

(v) CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking as set out in Schedule V; and

(vi) Support Services Undertaking as set out in Schedule VI.

6.4 Separation and vesting of Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB to the Successor Companies

(a) On the Appointed Date, by virtue of the operation of the provisions of section 17 of the Electricity Act, the restructured activities of the CEB relating to the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, and all assets and liabilities of the CEB pertaining to generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity along with their respective duties and functions shall vest in the limited companies referred to in items (a), (e), (f), (g), (h)(i) and (h)(ii) of Schedule I of the Electricity Act, incorporated in terms of subsection (1) of section 17 of the Electricity Act, in accordance with the scheme set out in this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(b) The Secretary to the Treasury shall be initially allotted one hundred per centum of the shares in the successor companies incorporated under section 17 of the Electricity Act other than the companies referred to in items (a), (e), (f), (g) and (h)(ii) of Schedule I of the Electricity Act and the company referred to in item (i)(i) of Schedule I of the Electricity Act relating to the hydropower generation in which the Secretary to the Treasury shall be permanently allotted one hundred per centum of the shares.

(c) The Electricity Generation Undertaking as set out in Schedule I shall stand transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(d) The Electricity Transmission Undertaking as set out in Schedule II shall stand transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(e) The National System Operation Undertaking as set out in Schedule III shall stand transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(f) The Electricity Distribution Undertaking as set out in Schedule IV shall stand transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(g) The CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking as set out in Schedule V shall stand transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(h) The Support Services Undertaking as set out in Schedule VI shall stand transferred to and vested in

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

9A

Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date subject to the terms and conditions specified in the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(i) On such transfer and vesting of the undertakings in terms of paragraphs (c) to (h) of this subsection and except as otherwise provided, the respective successor companies, shall be obligated and responsible for undertaking and fulfilling all functions, contracts, rights, deeds, plans, bonds, agreements and other instruments of whatever nature relating to the respective undertakings transferred to it to which the CEB was a party, subsisting or having effect on the Appointed Date, in the same manner as the CEB was liable immediately before the Appointed Date, and the same shall remain in force and effect against or in favor of the respective successor companies and may be enforced effectively as if the respective successor companies had been a party thereto instead of the CEB.

(j) In terms of subsection (3) of section 51 of the Electricity Act, the Registrar of Lands, shall be required to register all lands that have been transferred from the Department of Government Electrical Undertakings and the local authorities to the CEB by virtue of the operation of the provisions of Part II of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969, upon submission of a certificate issued under the hand of the General Manager of the CEB based on information and documentary proof in respect of such transfer as is within the possession and control of the General Manager certifying that the CEB is the owner of all lands described (with metes and boundaries) in the Schedule annexed to such certificate.

(k) In terms of subsection (4) of section 51 of the Electricity Act, a certificate shall be issued under the hand of the General Manager of the CEB to the effect that the CEB became the owner and occupier of the lands more fully described in the Schedule annexed to the certificate as from the date of taking over the all electrical undertakings including all assets and lands, which were owned and possessed by the Department of Government Electrical Undertakings or any local authority, by virtue of the operation of the provisions of Part II of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969 and from and after the date on which all electrical undertakings of the Department of Ceylon Electricity Board had enjoyed all benefits of those lands and assets as the property of the CEB free of any encumbrances.

(l) All the assets and/ or lands owned, occupied and/ or used by the CEB and the rights which CEB enjoyed in respect of such assets or lands, including those referred to in paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section shall be transferred to the respective successor companies in accordance with the Undertakings referred to in paragraphs (c) to (h) of this section. In the event of any assets or lands occupied or used by the CEB which are state land/ state owned, transfer of rights of such assets or lands shall be in consultation with the relevant state authorities and in conformity with the relevant laws.

(m) All unassigned assets and/ or lands in any means owned, occupied and/ or used by the CEB shall be allocated and transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited.

(n) The value of the assets and liabilities to be transferred to the successor companies in this Preliminary Transfer Plan shall be as per the book value of such assets and liabilities as recorded in the audited financial statements of the CEB as of 31st December 2024.

(o) The technical, physical and metering boundaries and metering points between two or more successor companies shall be determined as stipulated in the power purchase agreements, power sales agreements, transmission service agreement, service agreements and maintenance agreements between respective successor companies.

6.5 Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB

(a) In terms of the structure of the electricity industry described in items (a), (e) and (g) of Schedule I of the Electricity Act respectively, three (3) limited companies incorporated in terms of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 shall take over the shareholding rights of the CEB as on the Appointed Date in following companies as set out in Schedules I, II and IV.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202610A

(i) Shareholding of the CEB in Lanka Coal Company (Pvt) Limited and Trincomalee Power Company Limited shall be transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited;

(ii) Shareholding of the CEB in LTL Holdings Limited and Sri Lanka Energies (Pvt) Limited shall be transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited; and

(iii) Shareholding of the CEB in Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Limited shall be transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited.

6.6 Assignation of the CEB Employees to the Successor Companies

(a) In terms of section 18 of the Electricity Act, the CEB shall duly identify and notify all officers and servants

of the CEB holding office in the CEB on the day preceding the Appointed Date of their proposed assignation to the respective successor companies (“Notice of proposed assignation to the successor company”) within fourteen months from the date on which the said section comes into operation in terms of the Electricity Act.

(b) The officers and servants of the CEB referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection shall notify the CEB

within two months of the receipt of the ‘Notice of proposed assignation to the successor company’ referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection, whether they opt to be assigned to such respective successor companies or not.

(c) The officers and servants of the CEB holding office in the CEB on the day preceding the Appointed Date

opt to be assigned to a successor company, shall be assigned to such successor company with effect from the date succeeding the Appointed Date on terms and conditions not less favorable than those enjoyed by them on the day preceding the Appointed Date under their contract of employment with the CEB.

(d) The ‘Proposed assignation to the respective successor companies’ is described in Schedule VII.

(e) The officers and servants of the CEB holding office in the CEB on the day preceding the Appointed Date

who do not opt to be assigned to a successor company, shall be entitled to a voluntary retirement scheme as described in Schedule VIII.

(f) In terms of section 39 of the Electricity Act, the General Manager of the CEB shall on behalf of the Board of the CEB be required to furnish to the PSRS - preliminary staff (employees of the CEB) allocation to successor companies prior to the Appointed Date.

(g) Preliminary allocation of all employees of the CEB shall be with the same designation, location of work, duties and functions (as-is, where-is basis).

(h) All proceedings including disciplinary proceedings pending against the employees of the CEB prior to the Appointed Date including those that relate to misconduct, lapses or acts of commission or omission committed before the Appointed Date, shall not abate and shall be deemed as from the appointed date to be proceedings instituted by the respective successor company and may be continued by the respective successor company. The officers and servants of the CEB assigned and allocated to the successor companies, shall be deemed to have entered into an agreement with the respective successor company concerned to repay loans, advances and other sums due or otherwise perform obligations undertaken by them to the CEB including under obligatory service bonds which remain outstanding as on the Appointed Date, on the same terms and conditions as contained in the arrangement with the CEB.

(i) Chief Executive Officer of Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited, the residual company established under paragraph (e) of subsection (3) of section 18 of the Electricity Act shall be responsible for the final allocation of the officers and servants of the CEB to be included in the Final Transfer Plan and addressing staff (employees of the CEB) grievances in that regard.

(j) The officers and servants of the CEB assigned to the successor companies under the Preliminary Transfer Plan may be reassigned to any other successor company during the Transition Period, without a discontinuation of the period of service for the calculation and granting of the pension and retirement benefits, if such an officer or servant is selected to be recruited by the respective successor company and the said officer or servant is willing to accept the re-assignation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

11A

6.7 Provident Fund and Pension Fund of the CEB

(a) In terms of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (e) of subsection (3) of section 18 of the Electricity Act, the functions of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB as the custodian and trustee and to manage such Provident Fund and Pension Fund and the monies required to meet the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund obligations of the employees of the CEB shall stand transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited.

(b) In terms of first proviso of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (e) of subsection (3) of section 18 of the

Electricity Act, both the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB shall be transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited and the benefits of the said Provident Fund and the Pension Fund shall only apply to the employees of the CEB on the day preceding the Appointed Date and former employees of the CEB.

(c) In terms of second proviso of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (e) of subsection (3) of section 18 of the Electricity Act, the governance structure of CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited shall be as prescribed by a Regulation issued by the Minister and shall include representatives from employees of the CEB on the day preceding the Appointed Date and former employees of the CEB who shall be consulted regarding the investment decisions of such funds.

(d) The Board of Directors of CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited when formulating the draft policies in terms of subsection (10) of section 17 of the Electricity Act shall include necessary administration arrangements for contribution, management and payments related to the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund with other successor companies.

(e) The employees of the CEB holding office in the CEB on the day preceding the Appointed Date who opt

to be assigned to a successor company, shall continue to be members of the CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund and shall be entitled to all the benefits thereunder.

(f) The successor companies and the employees of the CEB who have become the employees of the successor companies on the date succeeding the Appointed Date shall make such contributions to the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund as they are required to make by rules or regulations of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund, as the case may be, and the successor companies shall make all other statutory payments including gratuity to the employees of the CEB who have become the employees of the successor companies. The period that an employee served with the CEB shall be taken into consideration when calculating the statutory payments that are payable to such employees.

6.8 Corporate Governance and Management Structure

(a) The Preliminary Transfer Plan provides a framework for the Corporate Governance and Management Structure for successor companies to commence operations, achieve operational excellence and ensure improved performance of companies in electricity industry, through well-coordinated, efficient, independent and accountable system.

(b) All the duties, functions and activities of the successor companies shall be categorized into five main areas such as; Operations, Technology, Finance, Human Resources Management and Corporate-Secretarial.

(c) The Corporate Governance and Management Structure is classified into ten (10) Bands -

(i) Band A: Board of Directors;

(ii) Band B: Chief Executive Officer;

(iii) Band C: C-Level;

(iv) Band D: Senior Managerial Level;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202612A

(v) Band E: Managerial Level;

(vi) Band F: Executive Level;

(vii) Band G: Associate Level;

(viii) Band H: Administrative Level;

(ix) Band I: Technical Level; and

(x) Band J: Assistive Level.(d) Band A: The administration and management of the affairs of each successor company shall be vested

in a Board of Directors appointed by the Minister. The Board of Directors is responsible for governing the company according to the objects set in the articles of association of the company and the policies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers under paragraph (c) of subsection (10) of section 17 of the Electricity Act.

(e) In terms of subsection (10) of section 17 of the Electricity Act, the Boards of Directors of the successor companies shall formulate the draft of the Enterprise Management Policy, Investment and Procurement Policy, Enterprise Risk Management Policy, Financial Management Policy, Disclosure Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy, Human Resources Policy and Strategic Communications Policy, from time to time, submit the draft policies to the Minister to obtain the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, and upon the approval being granted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the draft policies, comply with such policies in respect of all matters on the administration and management of the affairs of the company.

(f) Bands B & C: Operational, Technological, Financial, Human Resources Management and Corporate-Secretarial functions shall be clearly distinguished. Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer(s), Chief Technology Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief Internal Auditor shall be appointed with the responsibility of formulating organizational strategies according to the company policies and company’s overall corporate performance and direction.

(g) Bands D & E: Directors and Managers are responsible for implementing the organizational strategies with actionable plans and procedures that can be executed by departments or units of the company.

(h) Bands F & G: Executive and Associate officers are responsible for implementing the functional operations

assigned according to the strategic action plans in a matrix- organizational structure.

(i) Bands H, I & J: Administrative, Technical and Assistive employees are responsible for execution of day-to-day tasks and processes that directly add value to the company and customers.

(j) The officers and servants of the CEB shall be selected for the posts in the Corporate Governance and Management Structure according to the Human Resources Policy of successor companies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers under paragraph (c) of subsection (10) of section 17 of the Electricity Act; provided that, external professionals and experts shall be recruited by the successor companies if the required expertise is not available within the CEB.

(k) Proposed Transitional Organizational Structures up to Band D are shown in Schedules I - VI. The Board of Directors together with Chief Executive Officers shall detail the organizational structures from Band E to Band J according to the Human Resources Policy of successor companies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers under paragraph (c) of subsection (10) of section 17 of the Electricity Act.

(l) The General Manager of the CEB shall on behalf of the Board of the CEB be required to furnish to the PSRS - preliminary staff allocation to successor companies in accordance with the ‘Proposed assignation to the respective successor companies’ set out in Schedule VII, prior to the Appointed Date. Registers of the preliminary staff allocation to successor companies are presented in Schedules I - VI.

(m) Preliminary allocation of all employees of the CEB shall be with the same designation, location of work, duties and functions (as-is, where-is basis) and shall not be made less favorable than the current terms and conditions under their contract of employment with the CEB, in terms of the Electricity Act.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

13A

6.9 Allocation of existing Cost Centers and Branches to the Successor Companies

(a) The allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the CEB, provisional balance sheets, preliminary allocation of all assets and functional allocations to the successor companies shall be undertaken as per the Schedules I - VI.

(b) The General Manager of the CEB shall on behalf of the Board of the CEB be required to furnish to the PSRS - preliminary allocation of all assets of the CEB and preliminary valuation of such assets including land, building, plant and machinery and other movable assets to successor companies prior to the Appointed Date with such valuation being carried out by the Chief Valuer.

(c) Chief Executive Officer of Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited, the residual company established

under paragraph (e) of subsection (3) of section 18 of the Electricity Act shall be responsible for final asset allocation and final asset valuation to be included in the Final Transfer Plan.

6.10 Provisional Balance Sheets of the Successor Companies

(a) In order to operationalize the successor companies, the Preliminary Transfer Plan provides for provisional balance sheets for successor companies.

(b) The provisional balance sheets for the successor companies as on 01st January 2025 based on the CEB’s audited financial statements for the year 2024 has been provided in Schedule I to VI of this Preliminary Transfer Plan for the purpose of transfer of the undertakings to the respective successor companies to commence operations, operationalize accounting for transactions and preparation of financial statements.

(c) The final opening balance sheet of the successor companies may be finalized based on audited financial

statements which would be based on the valuation provided by the Chief Valuer and notified by the Government at any time during the Transition Period or as part of the Final Transfer Plan. Post notification, final opening balance sheets shall supersede the opening balance sheets provided in Schedule I to VI of this Preliminary Transfer Plan.

(d) Further, at the time of Appointed Date, the Finance Branch of the CEB allocated to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited shall be responsible for preparing the provisional balance sheets as at the day preceding the Appointed Date on the same principles adopted to prepare the provisional balance sheets provided in Preliminary Transfer Plan, unless any deviation is required from the principles to prepare the financial statements as per accounting standards or any law in force in Sri Lanka. The successor companies then shall re-cast their financial statements accordingly.

(e) The successor companies shall enter into Interim Cash Flow Agreements for management of the cash flows for the successor companies and among the successor companies to ensure smooth functioning of cash related transactions and accounting thereof during the Transition Period until the Final Transfer Plan is executed.

6.11 Transfer of Legal Suits

(a) All the legal suits which were previously handled by the Legal Branch of the CEB shall be transferred in the manner set out in Schedules I to VI to the successor companies along with the cost centers which were handling the legal suit prior to the Appointed Date.

(b) The Legal Branch, which is now transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited, shall administer and ensure smooth transfer of all the pending litigation to the respective successor companies.

(c) All actions or proceedings of whatever nature by or against the CEB pending on the Appointed Date shall not abate or discontinue or otherwise in anyway prejudicially be affected by reason of the transfer under this Preliminary Transfer Plan and the proceedings may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the successor companies to whom the same are assigned in accordance with this Preliminary Transfer Plan and paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of section 51 of the Electricity Act.

(d) Such proceedings may be continued in the same manner and to the same extent as it would or might have been continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the CEB if the transfers specified in this Preliminary Transfer Plan had not been made.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202614A

(e) All the judgments, decrees or orders of any court made in favor or against the CEB before the Appointed Date, shall from and after such date be deemed to continue to be in force and shall be enforced accordingly in terms of the Electricity Act.

(f) Any reference to the CEB in any notification, contract, instrument, record, share certificate, document,

deed, bond, agreement, guarantee, Power of Attorney, grant of legal representation or any other instrument of whatever nature, which are currently in force shall be deemed to be valid and effectual and continue to be enforced accordingly in terms of the Electricity Act.

(g) In all actions or proceedings of whatever nature instituted by the CEB, it shall be the duty of successor companies to move to courts or other applicable forums to substitute itself in lieu of the CEB, amend the captions and provide reference to the name of the applicable successor company in place of the CEB.

6.12 Transfer of Contracts, Contractual Commitments and Liabilities

(a) All the contracts and contractual commitments of the CEB and liabilities including the loans taken by the CEB from lending agencies shall be transferred in the manner set out in Schedules I to VI to the successor companies along with the cost centers which were administering the same, prior to the Appointed Date.

(b) The General Manager of the CEB shall be responsible for providing the allocation of contractual commitments of the CEB to successor companies prior to the Appointed Date subject to and in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (f) of subsection (1) of section 39 of the Electricity Act.

(c) The current contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the CEB effective as on the Appointed

Date shall not abate or discontinue or otherwise in anyway prejudicially be affected by reason of the transfer under this Preliminary Transfer Plan and shall get transferred in the manner set out in Schedules I to VI to the relevant successor companies.

(d) The successor companies shall endeavor to get the contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities that have been transferred to them in terms of paragraph (a) formally transferred or novated in their name at the earliest through application or communication to the relevant parties to the contract.

(e) National System Operator (Private) Limited shall enter into power purchase agreements with generation licensees and transmission service agreements with transmission licensees including National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited and additional transmission licensees in terms of subsections (12) and (14) of section 10 of the Electricity Act.

(f) All power purchase agreements and standardized power purchase agreements which had been entered into by the CEB, and which are valid and are in operation on the day immediately preceding the Appointed Date shall be assigned to National System Operator (Private) Limited under the same terms and conditions for the remaining period of such power purchase agreements or standardized power purchase agreements and continue to be valid and effective as if they were entered into in terms of the Electricity Act.

(g) National System Operator (Private) Limited shall enter into power purchase agreements with Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited in terms of paragraph (b) of subsection (14) of section 10 of the Electricity Act.

(h) National System Operator (Private) Limited shall enter into power sales agreements with Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited in terms of paragraph (c) of subsection (14) of section 10 of the Electricity Act.

(i) National System Operator (Private) Limited shall enter into a transmission service agreement with National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited in terms of paragraph (d) of subsection (14) of section 10 of the Electricity Act.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

15A

(j) National System Operator (Private) Limited shall enter into power sales agreements with distribution licensees and consumers who purchase electricity in bulk form referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection (4) of section 10 of the Electricity Act.

6.13 Transfer of Licenses, Approvals, Permits and Clearances

(a) All the existing licenses, approvals, permits, clearances and similar matters held by divisions or branches of the CEB prior to the Appointed Date shall be transferred to the successor companies in the manner set out in Schedules I to VI.

(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 51 of the Electricity Act, the existing licenses, approvals, permits, clearances and similar matters of the CEB valid and effective as on the Appointed Date shall not abate or discontinue or otherwise in anyway prejudicially be affected by reason of the transfer under this Preliminary Transfer Plan and shall get transferred to the relevant successor companies.

(c) The successor companies shall endeavor to get licenses, approvals, permits, clearances and similar matters of the CEB transferred to them in terms of this Preliminary Transfer Plan transferred or renewed in their name at the earliest through application or communication to the relevant licensing or approving authority. It shall be the responsibility of the successor companies to apply, take, maintain and keep in force at all the times, all the necessary licenses, approvals, permits and clearances as required under the laws of Sri Lanka (Including as required under the second proviso to paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 51 of the Electricity Act) for the functioning of its business operations.

6.14 Rights and Obligations of the Third Parties

(a) Upon the transfer being effected in terms of the Electricity Act and this Preliminary Transfer Plan, the rights

and obligations of all persons vis-a-vis the CEB shall stand transferred and be restricted to the successor companies to whom they are transferred to and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any deed, documents, instruments, agreements or arrangements which such person has with the CEB, he shall not claim any right or interest against the Government or the CEB.

7. Decision of Government to be Final

(a) Subject to the provisions of the Electricity Act, if any doubt, dispute, difference or issue shall arise with

regard to any matter under the Preliminary Transfer Plan, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers thereon shall be final and binding on all parties.

(b) The successful implementation of the Preliminary Transfer Plan may necessitate inter- company agreements and arrangements between the successor companies including but not limited to power purchase agreements, power sales agreements, transmission service agreements, interim cash flow arrangements, arrangements for cost recovery of non-licensed activities from licensed businesses, etc. The successor companies shall identify and undertake such agreements and arrangements subject to the policies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers under paragraph (c) of subsection (10) of section 17 of the Electricity Act. The Regulator shall identify the recovery of such cost through the licensed business.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202616A

List of Schedules

1. Schedule I - Electricity Generation Undertaking

2. Schedule II - Electricity Transmission Undertaking

3. Schedule III - National System Operation Undertaking

4. Schedule IV - Electricity Distribution Undertaking

5. Schedule V - CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

6. Schedule VI - Support Services Undertaking

7. Schedule VII - Proposed assignation to the respective successor companies

8. Schedule VIII - Voluntary Retirement Scheme

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

17A

Summary of Schedules

Summary of Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

1. Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited

2. Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

3. Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Generation Division of the CEB to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited

4. Provisional balance sheet of Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

5. Register of assets of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

6. Register of bank accounts of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

7. Register of debts of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

8. Register of legal suits of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

9. Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

10. Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

11. Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed

Date

12. Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202618A

Summary of Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

1. Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited

2. Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

3. Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited

4. Provisional balance sheet of National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

5. Register of assets of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

6. Register of bank accounts of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

7. Register of debts of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

8. Register of legal suits of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

9. Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Transmission- Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

10. Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

11. Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as

at the Appointed Date

12. Transitional Organizational Structure of National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

19A

Summary of Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

1. Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited

2. Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and under the Chairman of the CEB to National System Operator (Private) Limited

3. Provisional balance sheet of National System Operator (Private) Limited based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

4. Register of assets of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

5. Register of bank accounts of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

6. Register of debts of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

7. Register of legal suits of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

8. Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Transmission-Non- Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

9. Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Transmission-Non- Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

10. Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

11. Transitional Organizational Structure of National System Operator (Private) Limited

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202620A

Summary of Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

1. Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited

2. Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

3. Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and under the General Manager of the CEB to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited

4. Provisional balance sheet of Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

5. Register of assets of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

6. Register of bank accounts of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

7. Register of debts of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

8. Register of legal suits of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

9. Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

10. Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

11. Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

12. Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

21A

Summary of Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

1. Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited

2. Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited

3. Provisional balance sheet of CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

4. Register of assets of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

5. Register of bank accounts of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

6. Register of debts of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

7. Register of legal suits of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

8. Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

9. Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

10. Transitional Organizational Structure of CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202622A

Summary of Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

1. Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited

2. Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the CEB to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited

3. Provisional balance sheet of Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

4. Register of assets of the CEB transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

5. Register of bank accounts of the CEB transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

6. Register of debts of the CEB transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

7. Register of legal suits of the CEB transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

8. Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the CEB transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

9. Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the CEB transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

10. Transitional Organizational Structure of Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

23A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

The Electricity Generation Undertaking shall stand transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date.

Schedule I.1: Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited -

(a) Duties, functions and activities of the Generation Division of the CEB in electricity generation based on hydro, coal, thermal and renewable energy sources; and

(b) Assets, liabilities and functions of the CEB including legal ownership, relating to -

(i) the hydropower generation;

(ii) the Norochcholei Lakvijaya Coal Power Plant and Lanka Coal Company (Pvt) Limited;

(iii) the thermal power generation other than coal power generation;

(iv) the Mannar Thambapavani Wind Power Plant;

(v) Trincomalee Power Company Limited; and

(vi) the properties, lands, buildings, vehicles, plants, tools, equipments, machineries, software, hardware, houseware, furniture, fixtures, office equipment, electrical apparatus, computers, phones, IT systems, communication and signal systems, security systems and equipments, building management systems, civil and mechanical works installations, structures and associated buildings, social and welfare centers, laboratories, training centers and workshops, spares, consumables, raw materials, works in progress, items sent for repairs, scraps and obsolete items owned and occupied by the Generation Division of the CEB.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202624A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.2: Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date -

(a) Shareholding of the CEB in Lanka Coal Company (Pvt) Limited shall be transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited; and

(b) Shareholding of the CEB in Trincomalee Power Company Limited shall be transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

25A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.3: Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Generation Division of the CEB to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited (EGL)

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EGL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned Wing Assigned Unit

1 GenerationAGM UnitAGM Unit800.00 AGM – GENERATIONOperations - Renewable Energy Unit

COO - Renewable Energy Unit

2 GenerationMahaweli Complex (Except employees in Thambapavani 100 MW Wind Power Plant)

DGM Unit

830.00831.00832.00833.00834.00835.00837.00838.00

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (MAHAWELI OMPLEX) CHIEF ENGINEER - VICTORIA POWER STATION CHIEF ENGINEER - KOTMALE POWER STATION CHIEF ENGINEER - UKUWELA POWER STATIONELECTRICAL ENGINEER - BOWATENNA POWER STATION CHIEF ENGINEER - RANDENIGALA POWER STATION ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - NILAMBE POWER STATIONC.E. (UPPER KOTHMALE POWER STATION)

Operations - Renewable Energy UnitDirector - Mahaweli Complex

3 GenerationLaxapana ComplexDGM Unit

820.00821.00822.00823.00824.00825.00

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (LAXAPANA COMPLEX) CHIEF ENGINEER - LAXAPANA POWER STATION ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - SAMANALA POWER STATIONELECTRICAL ENGINEER - WIMALASURENDRA POWER STATION ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - CANYON POWER STATIONCHIEF ENGINEER - BROADLANDS HYDRO POWER STATION

Operations - Renewable Energy Unit

Director - Laxapana Complex

4 GenerationSamanala ComplexDGM Unit

840.00841.00843.00844.00845.00846.00

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (SAMANALA COMPLEX) CHIEF ENGINEER - SAMANALAWEWA POWER STATION CHIEF ENGINEER - KUKULE POWER STATION ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - INGINIYAGALA POWER STATION ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - UDAWALAWE POWER STATION CHIEF ENGINEER - UMA OYA HYDRO POWER STATION

Operations - Renewable Energy Unit

Director - Samanala Complex

5 GenerationEmployees in Thambapavani 100 MW Wind Power Plant

CE Unit 839.00 CHIEF ENGINEER - MANNAR WIND POWER STATIONOperations - Renewable Energy UnitDirector - NCRE

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202626A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EGL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned Wing Assigned Unit

6 Generation Thermal Complex DGM Unit

810.00811.00812.00813.00813.10813.20815.00816.00817.00818.00818.40818.50819.00

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (THERMAL COMPLEX) CHIEF ENGINEER (KELANITISSA POWER STATION)CHIEF ENGINEER (KELANITISSA COMBINED CYCLE POWER STATION) CHIEF ENGINEER (SAPUGASKANDA POWER STATION) SAPUGASKANDA POWER STATION PIELSTICK UNITSAPUGASKANDA POWER STATION MAN UNIT CHUNAKAM POWER STATIONUTHURU JANANI POWER STATION (UJPS) BARGE POWER STATION1MW*50 DIESEL GENERATORS MATHUGAMA1MW*30 GENERATOR SET POWER PLANT IN HAMBANTOTA KELANITISSA COMBINED CYCLE POWER STATION – 2

Operations - Thermal Power UnitDirector - Thermal Complex

7 Generation Lakvijaya Power PlantPlant Manager Unit

805.00 POWER PLANT MANAGER (LAKVIJAYA COMPLEX)Operations - Thermal Power Unit

Director - Lakvijaya Power Plant

8 GenerationGeneration ProtectionDGM Unit855.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (PROTECTION GENERATION)TechnologyDirector - Engineering (Renewable Energy)

9 GenerationAssets Management Hydro ElectricalDGM Unit875.00 D.G.M. (ASSET MANAGEMENT - HYDRO ELECTRICAL)TechnologyDirector – Assets Management (Electrical)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

27A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EGL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

10GenerationAssets Management Hydro MechanicalDGM Unit865.00D.G.M. (ASSET MANAGEMENT - HYDRO MECHANICAL)TechnologyDirector – Assets Management (Me-chanical)

11GenerationAssets Management Thermal ElectricalDGM Unit885.00D.G.M. (ASSET MANAGEMENT - THERMAL ELECTRICAL)TechnologyDirector – Engi-neering (Thermal Power)

12GenerationAssets Management Thermal MechanicalDGM Unit880.00D.G.M. (ASSET MANAGEMENT - THERMAL MECHANICAL)Technology Director – Procure-ment

13GenerationGeneration ProjectsDGM Unit

860.00860.25860.26860.90

DGM - GENERATION PROJECTSPM - REFURBISHMENT OF KPS FRAME V GAS TURBINE PROJECT PROJECT MANAGER (KELANITISSA GAS TURBINE PROJECT) EXTENSION FOR ENHANCING COAL HANDLING CAPACITY PROJECTTechnologyDirector - Generation Projects & Contracts Management

14GenerationDam Safety, Environ-ment & Civil Structure Maintenance

DGM Unit895.00DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (DS & CSM)TechnologyDirector - Dam Safety, Environment & Civil Structure Maintenance

15GenerationEnergy SalesDGM Unit870.00DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (ENERGY SALES)TechnologyDirector - Energy Sales & Regulatory Affairs

16GenerationCorporate AffairsDGM Unit850.00DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (CORPORATE AFFAIRS)CEODirector - ESG As-pects & Corporate Strategies

17GenerationAFM UnitAFM Unit890.00ADDITIONAL FINANCE MANAGER (GENERATION)FinanceDirector - Opera-tional Finance

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202628A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.4: Provisional balance sheet of Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited (EGL) based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

EQUITY AND LIABILITIESLKR’000ASSETSLKR’000

Capital & ReservesNon-Current Assets

Contributed Capital491,824,663Property, Plant & Equipment299,252,192

Reserves20,378,678Intangible Assets5,089

Retained Earnings/ (Loss)(199,729,102)Investment in Subsidiaries / Associates / JV360,606

Total Equity312,474,239Investments of Insurance Reserves Fund7,741,673

Non-Current Liabilities and Deferred IncomeOther Financial Assets1,450,025

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings68,080,632Other Non-Current Assets incl. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale373,973

Consumer Deposits-Total Non-Current Assets309,183,559

Provisions & Other Deferred Liabilities5,606,725Current Assets

Government Grants-Inventories50,645,592

Contract Liabilities-Trade and Other Receivables7,254,791

Total Non-Current Liabilities73,687,357Other Financial Assets604,173

Current LiabilitiesCash and Cash Equivalents370,303

Trade and Other Payables (incl. Income Tax Liabilities)31,787,266

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings9,005,168

Total Current Liabilities40,792,434Total Current Assets58,874,860

Current Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)(58,895,611)Transit Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)-

Total Equity and Liabilities368,058,419Total Assets368,058,419

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

29A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.5: Register of assets of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202630A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.6: Register of bank accounts of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

31A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.7: Register of debts of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202632A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.8: Register of legal suits of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

33A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.9: Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202634A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.10: Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Generation Division of the CEB transferred to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

35A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.11: Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202636A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Schedule I.12: Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited (EGL) from Band A to D

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

37A

Schedule I: Electricity Generation Undertaking

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited (EGL)

IDDesignation in EGLPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEB

Band B: CEO LevelProposed Cadre: 1

1CEONA

Band C: C LevelProposed Cadre: 7

1COO - Renewable Energy UnitAGM - Generation

2COO - Thermal Power UnitNA

3CTONA

4CFONA

5CHRONA

6CIANA

7Board SecretaryNA

Band D: SM LevelProposed Cadre: 22

Operations Wing - Renewable Energy Unit

1Director - Mahaweli ComplexDGM - Mahaweli Complex

2Director - Laxapana ComplexDGM - Laxapana Complex

3Director - Samanala ComplexDGM - Samanala Complex

4Director - NCRENA

Operations Wing - Thermal Power Unit

1Director - Thermal ComplexDGM - Thermal Complex

2Director - Lakvijaya Power PlantDGM - Lakvijaya Power Plant

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202638A

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited (EGL)

IDDesignation in EGLPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEB

Technology Wing

1Director - Engineering (Renewable Energy)DGM - Generation Protection

2Director - Engineering (Thermal Power)DGM - Assets Management (Thermal Electrical)

3Director - Assets Management (Electrical)DGM - Assets Management (Hydro Electrical)

4Director - Assets Management (Mechanical)DGM - Assets Management (Hydro Mechanical)

5Director - ProcurementDGM - Assets Management (Thermal Mechanical)

6Director - Generation Projects & Contracts ManagementDGM - Generation Projects

7Director - Dam Safety, Environment & Civil Structure MaintenanceDGM - Dam Safety, Environment & Civil Structure Maintenance

8Director - Energy Sales & Regulatory AffairsDGM - Energy Sales

9Director - ICT and Digital SolutionsNA

10Director - Business DevelopmentNA

Finance Wing

1Director - Corporate FinanceNA

2Director - Operational FinanceAFM - Generation

Human Resources Management Wing

1Director - Human Resources ManagementNA

2Director - General AdministrationNA

CEO Wing

1Director - ESG Aspects and Corporate StrategiesDGM - Corporate Affairs

2Director - Legal & ComplianceNA

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

39A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

The Electricity Transmission Undertaking shall stand transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date.

Schedule II.1: Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited -

(a) Duties, functions and activities of the Transmission - Wired Operations Division of the CEB in electricity transmission services and maintenance of the National Grid of Sri Lanka;

(b) Duties, functions and activities of the Projects Division of the CEB in engineering, procurement, construction, contract and project management, civil works and construction projects;

(c) Duties, functions and activities of the Assets Management Division of the CEB in training; and

(d) Assets, liabilities and functions of the CEB including legal ownership, relating to -

(i) the development, maintenance and operation of the physical infrastructure that makes up the National Grid of Sri Lanka;

(ii) the Projects Division of the CEB;

(iii) the training centers and training facilities of the Assets Management Division of the CEB;

(iv) LTL Holdings Limited and Sri Lanka Energies (Pvt) Limited; and

(v) the properties, lands, buildings, vehicles, plants, tools, equipments, machineries, software, hardware, houseware, furniture, fixtures, office equipment, electrical apparatus, computers, phones, IT systems, communication and signal systems, security systems and equipments, building management systems, civil and mechanical works installations, structures and associated buildings, social and welfare centers, laboratories, training centers and workshops, spares, consumables, raw materials, works in progress, items sent for repairs, scraps and obsolete items owned and occupied by the Transmission - Wired Operations Division and Projects Division of the CEB.

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.2: Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date -

(a) Shareholding of the CEB in LTL Holdings Limited shall be transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited; and

(b) Shareholding of the CEB in Sri Lanka Energies (Pvt) Limited shall be transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202640A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.3: Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Transmission - Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited (NTNSP)

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NTNSP

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

1Transmission- WiredAGM UnitAGM Unit302.00 ADDITIONAL GENERAL MANAGER (TRANSMISSION WIRED OPERATIONS) Operations - National GridCOO - National Grid

2Transmission- WiredAssets Management & Condition Monitoring

DGM Unit

335.00336.00337.00338.00

DGM (ASSETS MANAGEMENT AND CONDITION MONITORING) CHIEF ENGINEER (MATERIAL MANAGEMENT)CHIEF ENGINEER (MAINTENANCE ENGINEERING) CHIEF ENGINEER (MAINTENANCE PLANNING)Operations - National Grid

Director - Assets Management & Condition Monitoring

3Transmission-Control & ProtectionDGM Unit

330.00330.10330.20330.30

DGM (CONTROL AND PROTECTION)CHIEF ENGINEER (PROTECTION SYSTEM)CHIEF ENGINEER (PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT)CHIEF ENGINEER (SUBSTATION AUTOMATION SYSTEM)

Operations - National GridDirector - Control &ProtectionWired

4Transmission-WiredCommunication SystemsDGM Unit

320.00320.10320.20320.30

DGM (COMMUNICATION)C. E. (DIGITAL BEARER)C. E. (SYSTEMS)C.E. (SERVICES)Operations - National Grid

Director - CommunicationSystems and SCADA

5Transmission- WiredTransmission Operation & Maintenance - North

DGM Unit

340.00340.10340.20340.30340.35

DGM (TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - NORTH)CE - TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - CENTRALCE - TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - NORTH CENTRAL CE(TR. O & M) NORTH WESTERN UNITCE(TRANSMISSION LINE MAINTENANCE) NORTH UNITOperations - National Grid

Initially, Director -Transmission O&M North

Final Allocation under

Director - Grid Operations,Director - Grid Maintenance,Director - TL & CableSystems

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

41A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NTNSP

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

6Transmission-WiredTransmission Operation &Maintenance - South

DGM Unit

350.00350.20350.30356.00356.10357.00358.00359.00

DGM (TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - SOUTH) CE - TRANSMISSION LINE MAINTENANCECE (CABLES MAINTENANCE & CENTRALIZED SERVICES) CE - TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - SOUTHE.E (CIRCUIT BUNGALOW MAINTENANCE) AT DENIYAYACE - TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - WESTERN CENTRAL CE - TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - WESTERN NORTH CE - TRANSMISSION OPERATION & MAINTENANCE - WESTERN SOUTH

Operations - National Grid

Initially, Director - Transmission O&M South

Final Allocation under

Director - Grid Operations Director - Grid Maintenance Director - TL & Cable Systems

7Transmission- WiredCorporate & Regulatory Relations

DGM Unit395.00 DGM (CORPORATE & REGULATORY RELATIONS)CEODirector - ESG Aspects, Corporate Strategies & Regulatory Affairs

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202642A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NTNSP

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

8ProjectsAGM UnitAGM Unit

980.00 ADDITIONAL GENERAL MANAGER (PROJECTS)980.30 PROJECT DIRECTOR (TRINCOMALEE COAL POWER PROJECT)980.45 PROJECT MANAGER (BROADLAND HYDRO POWER PROJECT)980.46 PROJECT DIRECTOR (PUTTALAM COAL POWER PROJECT PHASE II)980.47 PROJECT DIRECTOR (UPPER KOTHMALE HYDRO POWER PROJECT)980.48 PROJECT DIRECTOR (COLOMBO CITY ELEC. DIST.& DEV. PROJECT)980.57 C.E. and N.E.I. - MANNAR TRANSMISSION980.58 C.E. & N.E.I. - 132KV TRANSMISSION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT980.59 C.E. & N.E.I. - 220KV TRANSMISSION INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT980.63 PROJECT MANAGER (GREEN POWER DEVELOPMENT ENERGY EFFICIENCY980.65 PD - RENEWABLE ENERGY ABSORPTION TRAN DEV PRJ - REATDP980.66 PROJECT MANAGER - SEETHAWAKA HYDRO POWER PROJECT980.68 SCADA SUPPORTED ADVANCE DISTRIBUTION CONTROL CENTER FOR WPS980.85 PROJECT MANAGER - MANNAR WIND POWER PROJECT982.00 PROJECT DIRECTOR - NEW COAL POWER PLANT PROJECT

TechnologyCTO

9ProjectsCorporate & Projects Coordination

DGM Unit980.20DGM (CORPORATE AND PROJECT CORDINATION)TechnologyDirector - Contracts (Infrastructure Develop-ments)

10ProjectsTransmission Design and Environment

DGM Unit

983.00983.10983.11983.12983.20

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (TRANSMISSION DESIGN & ENVIRONMENT) CE(TRANSMISSION GRID DESIGN)DRAWING OFFICERCE (TRANSMISSION LINE DESIGN) ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICER

TechnologyDirector - Engineering

11ProjectsTransmission ProjectsDGM Unit

985.00985.10985.20985.30985.40985.50985.51985.52985.60

DGM (TRANSMISSION PROJECTS)PM (MANNAR, NADUKUDA AND EMBILIPITIYA GRID SUB AUG PRJ) PMU-1 (CLEAN ENERGY ABSORPTION TRANS PRJ - (CEATP)PMU-2 (CLEAN ENERGY ABSORPTION TRANS PRJ - (CEATP)MANNAR VAUNIA 220kV TR LINE CONDUCTOR UPGRADING PRj(MVTLCUP) POWER SYSTEM RELIABILITY STRENGTHENING PROJECT PHASE- II PAC POWER SYSTEM RELIABILITY STRENGTHENING PROJECT PHASE- II PAC POWER SYSTEM RELIABILITY STRENGTHENING PROJECT PHASE- II PAC PMU-MULLIKULAM WIND POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT

TechnologyDirector - Procurement

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

43A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NTNSP

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

12ProjectsTransmission Construction ProjectsDGM Unit

980.52980.55980.56980.90986.00986.10986.11986.20986.30986.40986.50

CHIEF ENGINEER (TRANSMISSION CONSTRUCTION)D.G.M. (TRANSMISSION CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS) CHIEF ENGINEER (GRID SUBSTATIONS CONSTRUCTIONS) CHIEF ENGINEER (DESIGN REVIEW)DGM (TRANSMISSION CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS) CE (PROCUREMENT MATERIAL MANAGEMENT) STORES - TCPCE (TRANSMISSION LINES) CE (GRID SUBSTATIONS)CE (TESTING COMMISSIONING) CE (DESIGN REVIEW)

Operations - Energy VenturesDirector - EPC

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202644A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NTNSP

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

13ProjectsProjects - GCT-DLRP, SESRIP, Sampur & H’tota BESS

PD Unit 980.60980.67PROJECT DIRECTOR - GREATER COLOMBO TR. & DIS. LOSS REDUCTION SESRIP (PACKAGE 4)Technology Project Director I

14ProjectsProjects - GP-DEEIIP, Uma OyaPD Unit

980.70 P D - GREEN POWER DEVELOPMENT AND EEIIP - TRANCH 2980.71 PM-SPMU01-MANNAR, VALACHCHANAI AND HAMBANTOTA LINE AND GRID980.72 PM-SPMU02-SUSTATIONS-COLOMBO, KOTUGODA, KOLONNAWA AND BIYAGAMA980.73 PROJECT MANAGER - SPMU 03 -BIYAGAMA, PANNIPITIYA LINE & GRID980.74 PM-SPMU04-220KV SWITCHING STATION AT KERAWALAPITIYA980.75 PMU-PACKAGE 7-SESRIP PROJECT987.00 RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS IMPLEMENTATION980.53 PROJECT DIRECTOR (UMA OYA HYDRO POWER PROJECT)

Technology

Director - Contracts (Grid Substations & Transmission Lines)

15Projects LNG Terminal ProjectPD Unit 980.86PROJECT DIRECTOR - P M U OF LIQUID NATURAL GAS (LNG)TechnologyDirector - Contracts (Infrastructure Developments)

16ProjectsMoragolla Hydro Power ProjectPD Unit 980.62PROJECT MANAGER (MOROGOLLA HYDRO POWER PROJECT)Technology Project Director II

17ProjectsNTDNDPPD Unit

980.80980.81980.82980.83980.84

PROJECT DIRECTOR (NTDND AND EIP)PROJECT MANAGER (NDTND AND EIP) PACKAGE 01 PROJECT MANAGER (NDTND AND EIP) PACKAGE 02 PROJECT MANAGER (NDTND AND EIP) PACKAGE 03 PROJECT MANAGER (NDTND AND EIP) PACKAGE 04

Technology Project Director III

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

45A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NTNSP

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

18ProjectsPSSREIPPD Unit

981.00 PD (POWER SYS STRENGTHENING & RENEWABLE ENERGY INTEGRATION)981.10 PM 1-POWER SYSTEMS RELIABILITY STRENGTHENING PROJECT981.20 PMU1(POWER SYS STRENGTHENING & RENEWABLE ENERGY INTEGRATION)981.30 PMU2(POWER SYS STRENGTHENING & RENEWABLE ENERGY INTEGRATION)981.40 PMU3(POWER SYS STRENGTHENING & RENEWABLE ENERGY INTEGRATION)TechnologyProject Director IV

19ProjectsEngineering Advisory ServicesDGM Unit980.01DGM - ENGINEERING ADVISORY SERVICES – ELECTRICALOperations - Energy Ventures

Director - Training & Consultancy

20ProjectsAFM UnitAFM Unit980.10ADDITIONAL FINANCE MANAGER (PROJECTS)FinanceDirector - Operational Finance

21Assets Manage-ment*

TrainingDGM Unit

270.00270.10270.20

DGM – TRAININGPRINCIPAL - TC CASTLEREAHG PRINCIPAL - TC PILIYANDALAOperations - Energy Ventures

Director - Training & Consultancy

* All the employees of the Assets Management Division of the CEB shall be assigned to NTNSP. The employees from NTNSP shall be designated to do the operations in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited (EVL). The assets and liabilities of the Asset Management Division other than under the Training Branch are allocated to EVL and provisional balance sheet of EVL is prepared accordingly as provided in Schedule VI.3.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202646A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.4: Provisional balance sheet of National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited (NTNSP) based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

EQUITY AND LIABILITIESLKR’000ASSETSLKR’000

Capital & ReservesNon-Current Assets

Contributed Capital199,376,955Property, Plant & Equipment291,225,563

Reserves11,292,544Intangible Assets51,699

Retained Earnings/ (Loss)(80,966,619)Investment in Subsidiaries / Associates / JV228,735

Total Equity129,702,880Investments of Insurance Reserves Fund2,506,432

Non-Current Liabilities and Deferred IncomeOther Financial Assets875,852

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings88,420,954Other Non-Current Assets incl. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale203,531

Consumer Deposits-Total Non-Current Assets295,091,811

Provisions & Other Deferred Liabilities3,797,802Current Assets

Government Grants-Inventories14,980,803

Contract Liabilities-Trade and Other Receivables3,211,685

Total Non-Current Liabilities92,218,756Other Financial Assets661,096

Current LiabilitiesCash and Cash Equivalents799,008

Trade and Other Payables (incl. Income Tax Liabilities)18,858,572

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings2,760,602

Total Current Liabilities21,619,174Total Current Assets19,652,593

Current Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)71,203,594Transit Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)-

Total Equity and Liabilities314,744,404Total Assets314,744,404

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

47A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.5: Register of assets of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202648A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.6: Register of bank accounts of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

49A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.7: Register of debts of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to and vested in National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202650A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.8: Register of legal suits of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

51A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.9: Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202652A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.10: Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Transmission-Wired Operations Division, Projects Division and Assets Management Division of the CEB transferred to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

53A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.11: Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202654A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Schedule II.12: Transitional Organizational Structure of National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited (NTNSP) from Band A to D

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

55A

Schedule II: Electricity Transmission Undertaking

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited (NTNSP)

IDDesignation in NTNSPPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEB

Band B: CEO LevelProposed Cadre: 1

1CEONA

Band C: C LevelProposed Cadre: 7

1COO - National GridAGM - Transmission-Wired Operations

2COO - Energy VenturesAGM - Assets Management

3CTOAGM - Projects

4CFONA

5CHRONA

6CIANA

7Board SecretaryNA

Band D: SM LevelProposed Cadre: 24 (Permanent), 4 (Temporary)

Operations Wing - National Grid

1Director - Grid OperationsDGM - Transmission O&M (North)

2Director - Grid MaintenanceDGM - Transmission O&M (South)

3Director - Transmission Lines & Cable SystemsNA

4Director - Assets Management & Condition MonitoringDGM - Assets Management & Condition Monitoring

5Director - Control & ProtectionDGM - Control & Protection

6Director - Communication Systems & SCADADGM - Communication Systems

Operations Wing - Energy Ventures

1Director - EPCDGM - Transmission Construction Projects (TCP)

2Director - Training & ConsultancyDGM - Training

3Director - ServicesDGM - Assets Management & Corporate

4Director - HSE AspectsDGM - Occupational Health & Safety

5Director - Workshop & Ancillary ServicesDGM - Workshop & Ancillary Services

6Director - Civil Works & BuildingsDGM - Civil Works & Buildings

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202656A

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited (NTNSP)

IDDesignation in NTNSPPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEB

Technology Wing

1Director - EngineeringDGM - Transmission Design & Environment

2Director - ProcurementDGM - Transmission Projects

3Director - Contracts (Grid Substations & Transmission Lines)NA

4Director - Contracts (Infrastructure Developments)DGM - Corporate & Projects Coordination (Projects Division)

5Director - ICT and Digital SolutionsNA

6Project Director IDGM - GCTDLRP, SESRIP, Sampur, H’tota BESS

7Project Director IIDGM - Moragolla Hydro Power Project

8Project Director IIIDGM - NTDNDP

9Project Director IVDGM - PSSREIP

Finance Wing

1Director - Corporate FinanceNA

2Director - Operational FinanceAFM - Projects

3Director - Finance (Energy Ventures)AFM - Assets Management

Human Resources Management Wing

1Director - Human Resources ManagementNA

2Director - General AdministrationNA

CEO Wing

1Director - ESG Aspects, Corporate Strategies & Regulator AffairsDGM - Corporate & Regulator Relations (Transmission-Wired Operations Division)

2Director - Legal & ComplianceNA

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

57A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

The National System Operation Undertaking shall stand transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date.

Schedule III.1: Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited -

(a) Duties, functions and activities of the Transmission - Non-Wired Operations Division of the CEB in electricity demand forecasting and planning, procurement of electricity and sale in bulk form, economic dispatch of electricity, the management, including operation and maintenance of the System Control Centre and National Grid of Sri Lanka operation including transmission network expansion planning;

(b) Duties, functions and activities of the Branches under the Chairman of the CEB; and (c) Assets, liabilities and functions of the CEB including legal ownership, relating to -

(i) generation scheduling, commitment and economic dispatch of generating plants and functions relating to the planning of future electricity and transmission capacity; and

(ii) the properties, lands, buildings, vehicles, plants, tools, equipments, machineries, software, hardware, houseware, furniture, fixtures, office equipment, electrical apparatus, computers, phones, IT systems, communication and signal systems, security systems and equipments, building management systems, civil and mechanical works installations, structures and associated buildings, social and welfare centers, laboratories, training centers and workshops, spares, consumables, raw materials, works in progress, items sent for repairs, scraps and obsolete items owned and occupied by the Transmission - Non-Wired Operations Division and the Branches under the Chairman of the CEB.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202658A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.2: Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Transmission - Non-Wired Operations Division and under the Chairman of the CEB to National System Operator (Private) Limited (NSO)

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NSO

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

1Transmission- Non WiredAGM UnitAGM Unit 300.00AGM – TRANSMISSIONOperations - System OperationsCOO - System Operations

2Transmission- Non WiredSystem ControlDGM Unit

310.00310.10310.20310.30

DGM (SYSTEM MANAGEMENT)C.E. (OPERATION PLANNING)C. E. (SYSTEM OPERATION)C.E. (OPERATION AUDIT)

Operations - System OperationsDirector - System Control

3Transmission- Non WiredTransmission & Generation PlanningDGM Unit

360.00 DGM (TRANSMISSION & GENERATION PLANNING)360.50 GENERATION DEVELOPMENT STUDIES UNIT362.00 CE (GENERATION PLANNNING & DESIGN)362.10 EE-NUCLEAR POWER365.00 CE - TRANSMISSION PLANNING

TechnologyDirector - Power System Planning

4Transmission- Non WiredRenewable Energy DevelopmentDGM Unit 300.60 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENTTechnologyDirector - Energy Transition Project Development

5Transmission- Non Wired

Renewable Energy Procurement & Performance Monitoring

DGM Unit 345.00DGM RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT & PERFORMANCE MONITORINGTechnologyDirector - Renewable Energy& Energy Storage Capacity Procurement

6Transmission- Non WiredPrivate Power DevelopmentDGM Unit 386.00DGM - PRIVATE POWER DEVELOPMENTTechnologyDirector - Thermal Generation & Transmission Capacity Procurement

7Transmission- Non WiredEnergy MarketingDGM Unit 380.00DGM (ENERGY MARKETING)Operations - National Electricity Market

Director - Energy Transactions (Distribution Licences)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

59A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in NSO

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

8Transmission- Non WiredEnergy PurchasesDGM Unit 385.00DGM (ENERGY PURCHASES)Operations - National Electricity Market

Director - Energy Transactions (Generation Licences)

9Transmission- Non WiredAFM UnitAFM Unit 300.40A.F.M. - TRANSMISSIONFinanceDirector - Finance

10Branches under ChairmanChairman OfficeChairman Office100.00 CHAIRMAN & THE BOARDBoard of DirectorsOffice of Board of

Directors

11Branches under ChairmanInternal Auditing Unit*

Internal Auditing Unit 950.00CHIEF INTERNAL AUDITORBoard of DirectorsCIA

* All the employees of the Internal Auditing Unit under the Chairman of the CEB shall be assigned to NSO. The employees from NSO shall be designated to do the operations in other successor companies in related to internal auditing functions during the Transition Period.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202660A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.3: Provisional balance sheet of National System Operator (Private) Limited (NSO) based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

EQUITY AND LIABILITIESLKR’000ASSETSLKR’000

Capital & ReservesNon-Current Assets

Contributed Capital59,274,470Property, Plant & Equipment3,615,373

Reserves427,160Intangible Assets4,292

Retained Earnings/ (Loss)(24,071,254) Investment in Subsidiaries / Associates / JV-

Total Equity35,630,376Investments of Insurance Reserves Fund41,597

Non-Current Liabilities and Deferred IncomeOther Financial Assets205,617

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings4,771,530Other Non-Current Assets incl. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale33,637

Consumer Deposits-Total Non-Current Assets3,900,516

Provisions & Other Deferred Liabilities820,987Current Assets

Government Grants113,105Inventories73,531

Contract Liabilities-Trade and Other Receivables38,886,354

Total Non-Current Liabilities5,705,621Other Financial Assets49,999

Current LiabilitiesCash and Cash Equivalents1,996,249

Trade and Other Payables (incl. Income Tax Liabilities)26,841,096

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings14,172,019

Total Current Liabilities41,013,116Total Current Assets41,006,134

Current Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)(37,442,463) Transit Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)-

Total Equity and Liabilities44,906,650Total Assets44,906,650

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

61A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.4: Register of assets of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202662A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.5: Register of Bank accounts of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

63A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.6: Register of debts of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to and vested in National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202664A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.7: Register of legal suits of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

65A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.8: Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202666A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.9: Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Transmission-Non-Wired Operations Division and branches under the Chairman of the CEB transferred to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

67A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.10: Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to National System Operator (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202668A

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

Schedule III.11: Transitional Organizational Structure of National System Operator (Private) Limited (NSO) from Band A to D

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

69A

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of National System Operator (Private) Limited (NSO)

IDDesignation in NSOPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEB

Band B: CEO LevelProposed Cadre: 1

1CEONA

Band C: C LevelProposed Cadre: 7

1COO - System OperationsAGM - Transmission-Non-Wired Operations

2COO - National Electricity MarketNA

3CTONA

4CFONA

5CHRONA

6CIANA

7Board SecretaryNA

Band D: SM LevelProposed Cadre: 17

Operations Wing - System Operations

1Director - System ControlDGM - System Control

2Director - Digital Services & SCADANA

Operations Wing - National Electricity Market

1Director - Energy Transactions (Generation Licenses)DGM - Energy Purchase

2Director - Energy Transactions (Distribution Licenses)DGM - Energy Marketing

3Director - ESG Aspects, Corporate Strategies & Regulator AffairsNA

4Director - National Electricity Market DevelopmentNA

Technology Wing

1Director - Power System PlanningDGM - Transmission & Generation Planning

2Director - Interconnection StudiesNA

3Director - Energy Transition Project DevelopmentDGM - Renewable Energy Development

4Director - Thermal Generation & Transmission Capacity ProcurementDGM - Private Power Development

5Director - Renewable Energy & Energy Storage Capacity ProcurementDGM - Renewable Energy Procurement & Performance Monitoring

Finance Wing

1Director - Business Processes and Corporate ITNA

2Director - BSTA OperationsNA

3Director - FinanceAFM - Transmission

Human Resources Management Wing

1Director - Human Resources ManagementNA

2Director - General AdministrationNA

CEO Wing

1Director - Legal & ComplianceNA

Schedule III: National System Operation Undertaking

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202670A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

The Electricity Distribution Undertaking shall stand transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date.

Schedule IV.1: Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited -

(a) Duties, functions and activities of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the CEB in electricity distribution or supply;

(b) Duties, functions and activities of the Corporate Strategic Division of the CEB including business and operational strategy, corporate strategy and regulatory affairs, and information technology;

(c) Duties, functions and activities of the Finance Division of the CEB;

(d) Duties, functions and activities of the Branches under the General Manager of the CEB including personal, legal, engineering auditing and investigation services; and

(e) Assets, liabilities and functions of the CEB including legal ownership, relating to -

(i) the distribution divisions namely Division 1, Division 2, Division 3 and Division 4;(ii) the Corporate Strategic Division of the CEB;(iii) the Finance Division of the CEB;(iv) Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Limited; and(v) the properties, lands, buildings, vehicles, plants, tools, equipments, machineries, software, hardware, houseware, furniture, fixtures, office equipment, electrical apparatus, computers, phones, IT systems, communication and signal systems, security systems and equipments, building management systems, civil and mechanical works installations, structures and associated buildings, social and welfare centers, laboratories, training centers and workshops, spares, consumables, raw materials, works in progress, items sent for repairs, scraps and obsolete items owned and occupied by the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategic Division, Finance Division and the Branches under the General Manager of the CEB.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

71A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.2: Subsidiary and Joint Venture Companies and Shareholding Rights of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date -

(a) Shareholding of the CEB in Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Limited shall be transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202672A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

1DD1AGM UnitAGM Unit400.00585.10AGM - DISTRIBUTION REGION 1CALL CENTER-DD-01Operations - Division 1COO - Division 1

2DD1Commercial & CorporateDGM Unit585.00581.00D.G.M. (COMMERCIAL & CORPORATE) 'EE-METER LAB-KURUNEGALAOperations - Division 1Director - Commercial & Energy Transactions

3DD1Distribution CoordinationDGM Unit760.00DGM (PROCUREMENT)Technology

Director - Distribution Coordination & Engineering Audits

4DD1Colombo CityDGM Unit

540.00 CC - DGM540.10 CHIEF ENGINEER (DEVELOPMENT)540.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - COLOMBO CITY540.13 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)540.14 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PLANNING)540.20 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)540.40 CC- ACCOUNTANT540.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER540.60 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)540.90 AUTOMATION UNIT540.91 AUTOMATION - SUB ADAPTATION UNIT540.92 AUTOMATION - SUB MAINTENANCE UNIT541.00 E.E. ( COLOMBO EAST)541.10 COLOMBO EAST DEPOT 1541.20 COLOMBO EAST DEPOT II541.30 BREAK DOWN DEPOT541.40 COLOMBO EAST - COMMERCIAL542.00 E.E. ( COLOMBO SOUTH)542.10 COLOMBO SOUTH DEPOT 1542.20 COLOMBO SOUTH DEPOT II542.30 BREAK DOWN DEPOT542.40 AREA OFFICE - STORES543.00 E.E. ( GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION)543.10 FORT DEPOT543.20 CINNAMON GARDENS543.40 E.E. - HOSPITAL

Operations - Division 1Director - Colombo City

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.3: Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and under the General Manager of the CEB to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited (EDL)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

73A

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

4DD1Colombo CityDGM Unit

544.00 E.E. (PRIMARY SUB MAINTENANCE)544.10 PRIMARY SUB MAINTENANCE544.20 HIGH TENSION MAINTENANCE544.21 HTM - NORTH544.22 HTM - EAST544.23 HTM - SOUTH544.24 HTM WEST544.31 WORKSHOP544.32 CIVIL WORKS545.00 C.E. (OPERATION & MAINTENANCE)545.10 OPERATION545.20 CABLE HANDLING545.21 FAULT LOCATION545.22 PROTECTION545.23 COMMUNICATION545.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (COLOMBO CITY CONTROL CENTER)545.40 SCADA SYSTEM OF COLOMBO CITY DISTRIBUTION CONTROL CENTER546.00 C.E. (ENERGY MANAGEMENT)546.10 3 PHASE METER REPLACING UNIT546.20 REHABILITATION, METER TESTING546.30 BULK SUPPLY METER TESTING546.40 3 PHASE METER CHANGING546.50 SINGLE PHASE METER SHIFTING547.00 E.E. - COLOMBO WEST547.10 COLOMBO WEST DEPOT 1547.20 COLOMBO WEST DEPOT II547.30 CONSUMER SERVICES & BREAK DOWN548.00 E.E. - COLOMBO NORTH548.10 COLOMBO NORTH DEPOT 1548.20 COLOMBO NORTH DEPOT II548.30 BREAK DOWN DEPOT

Operations - Division 1Director - Colombo City

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202674A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

5DD1North Central ProvinceDGM Unit

420.00 DGM - NCP420.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE420.13 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)420.14 CHIEF ENGINEER (PLANNING)420.20 CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)420.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)420.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)420.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER420.60 ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT - NCP420.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)422.00 C.E.(POLONNARUWA)422.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - MINNERIYA422.10 HABARANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE422.20 POLONNARUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE422.30 HINGURAKGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE422.40 MANAMPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE422.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - MINNERIYA423.00 E.E. ( ANURADAPURA)423.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - ANURADHAPURA423.10 ANURADHAPURA CITY CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE423.20 MADAWACHCHIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE423.30 PADAWIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER.423.40 MIHINTHALE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE423.50 NOCHCHIYAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE423.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - ANURADHAPURA424.00 E.E. (AREA - KEKIRAWA)424.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KEKIRAWA 424.10 THAMBUTHTHEGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE424.20 KEKIRAWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE424.30 GALNEWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER424.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT – KEKIRAWA

Operations - Division 1Director - North Central Province

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

75A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

6DD1Northern ProvinceDGM Unit

410.00 D.G.M. - (NOTHERN PROVINCE)410.10 NP - DEVELOPMENT410.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - NOTHERN PROVINCE410.13 E.E. (COMMERCIAL)410.14 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PLANNING)410.20 CHIEF ENGINEER ( CONSTRUCTION)410.21 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (VAVUNIYA SITE)410.30 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)410.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)410.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER410.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)410.80 CENTRAL POWER STATION CHUNNAKAM411.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER JAFFNA411.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - JAFFNA411.10 JAFFNA SUBURB CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE411.20 WADDUKODAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE411.30 CHUNNAKAM CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE411.40 KANKASANTHURAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE411.70 VELANI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER411.80 JAFFNA CITY CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE412.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (KILLINOCHCHI)412.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KILLINOCHCHI412.20 MANKULAM CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE412.30 KILLINOCHCHI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE412.50 MULLAITHEEVU CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE413.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - VAVUNIYA413.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - VAVUNIYA413.10 MANNAR CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE413.20 VAVUNIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE413.30 MADDU CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE414.00 UTHURU WASANTHAYA PROJECT414.03 EE (STORES UTHURU WASANTHAYA PROJECT)415.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - JAFFNA EAST415.03 STORE KEEPER - JAFFNA EAST415.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - POINT PEDRO415.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - CHAVAKACHCHERI416.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER -JAFFNA WEST416.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - VADDUKODDAI416.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - VELANAI

Operations - Division 1Director - Northern Province

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202676A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

7DD1North Western Province IDGM Unit

450.00 D.G.M. (NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE)450.10 NWP - DEVELOPMENT450.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE450.13 E.E. (COMMERCIAL)450.14 E.E. (PLANNING)450.20 C.E. (CONSTRUCTION)450.30 C.E. (DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE)450.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)450.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER450.60 C.E. (ENERGY MANAGEMENT)450.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)451.00 E.E. - CHILAW451.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - CHILAW451.10 CHILAW CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE451.20 KIRIYANKALLIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE451.30 MADAMPE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE451.40 CHILAW GRID SUB452.00 E.E. - KURUNEGALA452.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KURUNEGALA452.10 MALLAWAPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE452.20 POTHUHERA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE452.30 KURUNEGALA CITY CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE452.40 GOKARALLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE452.50 RIDIGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE453.00 E.E. - WENNAPPUWA453.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - WENNAPPUWA453.10 WNNAPPUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE453.20 BOLAWATTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE453.30 NATTANDIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE453.40 BOLAWATTA GRID SUB454.00 E.E. - KULIYAPITIYA454.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KULIYAPITIYA454.10 KULIYAPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE454.20 PANNALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE454.50 HETTIPOLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE455.00 C.E. - WARIYAPOLA455.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - WARIYAPOLA455.10 WARIYAPOLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE455.20 MAHAWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE455.30 NIKAWARATIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE455.40 GALGAMUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE455.50 HIRIPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE456.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER NARAMMALA456.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - NARAMMALA456.10 NARAMMALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE456.20 GIRIULLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE456.30 ALLAWWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE

Operations - Division 1Director - North Western Province I

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

77A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

7DD1North Western Province IDGM Unit

457.00457.03457.10457.20457.30457.40

AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER PUTTALAM AREA STORE KEEPER - PUTTALAM PUTTALAM CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE ANAMADUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE

NOROCHCHOLE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE MADURANKULIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE

Operations - Division 1Director - North Western Province I

8DD1North Western Province IIDGM Unit

480.00480.10480.11480.14480.20480.30480.40480.50480.60480.70481.00481.03481.10481.20481.30481.60482.00482.03482.10482.20482.30482.60483.00483.03483.10483.20483.30483.60484.00484.03484.10484.20484.30484.60485.00485.10485.20

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER NWP - 2 CE (COMMERCIAL) NWP - 2SK (PROVINCIAL STORES) NWP-2CE (PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT) NWP-2 CE (CONSTRUCTION) NWP-2CE (DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE) NWP- 2ACCOUNTANT - EXPENDITURE (NWP 2) HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER (NWP 2)CE (ENERGY MANAGEMENT) NWP-2 ACCOUNTANT - REVENUE (NWP 2) AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (MAHO) AREA STORE KEEPER (MAHO) CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - MAHOCONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - NIKAWERATIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - GALGAMUWA AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT (MAHO)AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - KURUNEGALA AREA STORE KEEPER - KURUNEGALA MALLAWAPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER POTHUHERA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER KURUNEGALA CITY CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - KURUNEGALAAREA CHIEF ENGINEER - WARIYAPOLA STORE KEEPER - WARIYAPOLA WARIYAPOLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER HIRIPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - KOBEIGANE AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - WARIYAPOLA AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - NARAMMALA STORE KEEPER - NARAMMALA NARAMMALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER GIRIULLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER ALAWWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - NARAMMALA AREA OFFICE - IBBAGAMUWAGOKARELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER RIDEEGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER

Operations - Division 1Director - North Western Province II

9DD1Planning & DevelopmentDGM Unit580.00DGM - PLANNING & DEVELOPMENTTechnologyDirector - Distribution System Planning & Design (D1)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202678A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

10DD1Projects & Heavy MaintenanceDGM Unit

595.00 D.G.M. (PROJECT & HEAVY MAINTENANCE596.00 Chief Engineer - LC&M-P&HM-DD1596.11 P&HM(DD1) - HEIYANTHUDUWA STORES596.12 P & HM (DD1) - HABARANA STORES597.00 Chief Engineer - SC&M-P&HM-DD1

Operations - Division 1Director - Projects & Heavy Maintenance

11DD1Colombo Port City Development ProjectPD Unit

401.00760.15760.30761.00

PD (COLOMBO PORT CITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT)RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT 8 (IRAN) PROJECT MANAGER CLEAN ENERGY & ACCESS IMPRV PRJ-RURAL HOUSEHOLD CON PRJ CENTRAL STORES

TechnologyDirector - Distribution Contracts

12DD1AFM UnitAFM Unit570.00570.10AFM - DISTRIBUTION REGION 1SHROFF BRANCH - ACCOUNTANT (CASH)FinanceDirector - Operational Finance (D1)

13DD2AGM UnitAGM Unit600.00 ADDITIONAL GENERAL MANAGER (REGION 2)600.60 PROJECT DIRECTOR (SMART DCC)Operations - Division 2COO - Division 2

14DD2Commercial & CorporateDGM Unit600.30600.32600.33

DGM (COMM. CROP.)ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (METER LAB) KIRIBATHGODA STORE KEEPER (METER LAB) KIRIBATHGODA

Operations - Division 2Director - Commercial & Energy Transactions

15DD2Central Province IDGM Unit

430.00430.10430.11430.13430.14430.20430.30430.40430.50430.80430.90431.00431.03431.10431.20431.30431.40431.50431.60431.70431.90432.00432.03432.10432.20432.40432.50432.60432.70432.80

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (CENTRAL PROVINCE) ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT-CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - CENTRAL PROVINCE CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PLANNING) CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE CP NORTH) ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)LIGHTING SRI LANKA CENTRAL PROVINCE PROJECT AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - NAWALAPIYTIYA AREA STORE KEEPER NAWALAPITIYACSC HATTON CSC MASKELIYACSC NORTON BRIDGE

NAWALAPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE GAMPOLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE KURUNDUWATTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE REHABILITATION DEPOTNORTON BRIDGE GRID SUBSTATION

AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER NUWARA ELIYA

AREA STORE KEEPER - NUWARA ELIYA NUWARA ELIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE RIKILLAGASKADA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE MAHAGASTOTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRETHAWALANTENNA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE-LINDULA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE MAINTENANCE UNITWALAPANE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE

Operations - Division 2Director - Central Province I

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

79A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

15DD2Central Province IDGM Unit

433.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER PERADENIYA433.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - PERADENIYA433.10 AMPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE433.20 YATINUWARA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE433.50 ERIYAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE433.70 REHABILITATION DEPOT434.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KANDY CITY434.03 AREA STORE KEEPER KANDY CITY434.10 KANDY CITY-NOTRH DEPOT434.20 KANDY CITY-SOUTH DEPOT434.30 KANDY CITY-CENTRAL DEPOT434.40 MAINTENANCE DEPOT434.50 OPERATION DEPOT434.60 H.T. MAINTENANCE UNIT435.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KATUGASTOTA435.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KATUGASTOTA435.10 WATTEGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE435.30 AMBATENNA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE435.60 MADOLKELLE LINESMAN DEPOT435.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT KATUGASTOTA436.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER MATALE436.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - MATALE436.10 MATALE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE436.50 WERAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE436.60 PALLEPOLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER436.70 REHABILITATION DEPOT437.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KUNDASALE437.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KUNDASALE437.10 DUMBARA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE437.20 HASALAKA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE437.30 UDUDUMBARA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER437.40 KARALLIYADDA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE437.50 GURUDENIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER438.00 E.E. KANDY CITY PROJECT439.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KEGALLE439.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KEGALLE439.10 KEGALLE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE439.20 THULHIRIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE439.30 MAWANELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE439.40 RABUKKANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE439.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - KEGALLE439.70 MORONTOTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE

Operations - Division 2Director - Central Province I

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202680A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

15DD2Central Province IDGM Unit

470.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER GALAGEDARA470.03 AREA STORES GALAGEDARA470.10 NUGAWELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE470.20 HATHARALIYADDA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE470.30 POOJAPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE470.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT (EE-GALAGEDARA)471.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER DAMBULLA471.03 AREA STORES DAMBULLA471.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER-GALEWELA471.20 NAULA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE471.30 DAMBULLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE471.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT DAMBULLA472.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER MAWANELLA472.03 AREA STORES MAWANELLA472.10 HEMMATHAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE472.20 MAWANELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE472.30 DIPPITIYA472.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - MAWANELLA474.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - HASALAKA474.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - HASALAKA474.10 CSC HASALAKA474.20 CSC UDUDUMBARA474.30 CSC LAGGALA474.60 AMU HASALAKA

Operations - Division 2Director - Central Province I

16DD2Central Province IIDGM Unit

490.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (CP-2)490.11 CENTRAL STORES (CP-2)490.13 CE (COMMERCIAL) CP-2490.14 CE (PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT) CP-2490.20 CE (CONSTRUCTION) CP-2490.30 CE (DISTRIBUTION & MAINTENANCE) CP-2490.40 ACCOUNTANT - EXPENDITURE (CP-2)490.60 CE (ENERGY MANAGEMENT) CP-2490.70 ACCOUNTANT - REVENUE (CP-2)491.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - NAWALAPITIYA CP2491.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - NAWALAPITIYA491.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - NAWALAPITIYA491.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - GAMPOLA491.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - KURUDUWATTA491.60 REHABILITATION DEPOT492.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - NUWARAELIYA CP2492.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - NUWARAELIYA492.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - NUWARAELIYA492.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - THAWALANTHENNA492.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - LINDULA492.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - NUWARAELIYA

Operations - Division 2Director - Central Province II

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

81A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

16DD2Central Province IIDGM Unit

493.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - KEGALLE CP2493.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KEGALLE493.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - KEGALLE493.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - THULHIRIYA493.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - RABUKKANA493.40 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - MORONTOTA493.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - KEGALLE494.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - MAWANELLA CP2494.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - MAWANELLA494.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - HEMMATAGAMA494.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - MAWANELLA494.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - DIPPITIYA494.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - MAWANELLA495.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - GINIGATHHENA CP2495.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - GINIGATHHENA495.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - HATTON495.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - NORTON BRIDGE495.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - MASKELIYA495.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - GINIGATHHENA496.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - PERADENIYA CP2496.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - PERADENIYA496.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - YATINUWARA496.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - ERIYAGAMA496.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - DAULAGALA496.40 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - GALAHA496.70 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT497.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINIEER HANGURANKETHA CP2497.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - HANGURANKETHA497.10 CSC RIKILLAGASKADA497.20 CSC WALAPANE497.60 AMU HANGURANKETHA556.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER GINIGATHHENA556.03 S.K. GINIGATHHENA556.10 HATTON CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE556.20 NORTON BRIDGE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE556.30 MASKELIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE556.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT – GINIGATHHENA

Operations - Division 2Director - Central Province II

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202682A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

IDAllocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

17DD2Eastern ProvinceDGM Unit

460.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (EASTERN PROVINCE)460.10 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (DEVELOPMENT)460.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - EASTERN PROVINCE460.12 CIVIL ENGINEER EASTERN PROVINCE460.13 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)460.14 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PLANNING)460.17 SUB STORE KEEPER BATTICALOA460.18 SUB STORE KEEPER TRINCOMALEE460.19 SUB STORE KEEPER AMPARA460.20 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION) TRINCOMALEE SITE460.21 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION) AMPARA SITE460.22 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION) BATTICALOA SITE460.23 PROVINCIAL DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE UNIT460.30 EP - REHABILITATION460.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)460.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER460.60 ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT - EAST460.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)460.80 RE - 8 PROJECT461.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER TRINCOMALEE461.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - TRINCOMALEE461.10 KANTHALE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE461.20 TRINCOMALEE TOWN CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE461.30 MUTHUR CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE461.40 KINNIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE461.50 GOMARANKADAWALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER461.80 SERUNUWARA ECSC461.90 TRINCOMALEE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE462.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - BATTICALO462.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - BATICALOA462.10 KALAWANCHIKUDY CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE462.20 VALACHCHENI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE462.30 BATTICALOA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE462.40 KARTANKUDY CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE462.50 VAHARAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTERS462.60 KIRAN CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER462.80 ERAVUR CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER AMPARA463.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - AMPARA463.10 AMPARA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.15 UHANA ECSC463.20 WEERAGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.30 INGINIYAGALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.40 AKKARAIPATHTHU CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.50 DEHIATTAKANDIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.60 POTUWIL CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.80 MAHAOYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE463.90 HINGURANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTERS

Operations - Division 2Director - Eastern Province

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

83A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

IDAllocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDLDivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

17DD2Eastern ProvinceDGM Unit

464.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KALMUNAI464.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KALMUNAI464.10 KALMUNAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE464.20 SAMANTHURAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE464.30 NINTHAVUR CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE464.50 SAINTHAMARUTHU CONSUNER SERVICE CENTER465.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - VALAICHCHENAI465.10 VALAICHCHENAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER465.20 VAHARAI CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER465.30 KIRAN CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER465.40 ERAVUR CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER465.60 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - VALAICHCHENAI

Operations - Division 2Director - Eastern Province

18DD2Western Province NorthDGM Unit

440.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (WESTERN PROVINCE NORTH0440.05 PD (CENTRAL EXPRESS WAY PROJECT-SECTION 1&2) WITHIN WPN440.10 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)440.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - WESTERN PROVINCE NORTH440.13 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)440.14 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PLANNING)440.20 CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)440.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE0440.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)440.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER440.60 EE ENERGY MANAGEMENT W.P.N440.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)441.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KELANIYA441.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KELANIYA441.10 MAWARAMANDIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE441.20 DELGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE441.40 KIRILLAWALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE441.50 DOMPE CONSUMER SREVICE CENTER442.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER NEGOMBO442.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - NEGOMBO442.10 NEGOMBO CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE442.20 KATANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER442.40 KATUNAYAKE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE442.50 MINUWANGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE443.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER GAMPAHA443.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - GAMPAHA443.10 GAMPAHA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE443.20 KIRINDIWELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE443.30 GANEMULLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE443.50 YAKKALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE443.70 PUGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER444.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER VEYANGODA444.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - VEYANGODA444.10 NITTAMBUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE444.20 VEYANGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE

Operations - Division 2

Director - Western Province North

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202684A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

18DD2Western Province North

DGM Unit

444.40 PASYALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE445.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER JA-ELA445.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - JA-ELA445.10 JA-ELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE445.20 WATTALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE445.30 RAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE446.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER DIVULAPITIYA446.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - DIVULAPITIYA446.10 DIVULAPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE446.20 MIRIGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE446.30 DUNAGAHA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE447.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - KIRINDIWELA447.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KIRINDIWELA447.10 KIRINDIWELA CSC447.20 PUGODA - CSC447.30 DOMPE CSC

Operations - Division 2Director - Western Province North

19DD2Planning & DevelopmentDGM Unit600.20D.G.M. (PLANNING DEVELOPMENT)TechnologyDirector - Distribution System Planning & Design (D2)

20DD2Projects & Heavy Maintenance

DGM Unit

600.40 D.G.M. PROJECT HEAVY MAINTENANCE - D2600.41 Chief Engineer -LC&M-P&HM-DD2600.42 Chief Engineer -SC&M-P&HM-DD2600.43 STORE KEEPER (PROJECT & HEAVY MAINTENANCE) SIYAMBALAPE600.50 CLEAN ENERGY & N/W EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT600.51 VAVUNATIVE GRID SUB CONNECTED DISTRIBUTION LINE PROJECT

Operations - Division 2

Director - Projects & Heavy Maintenance

21DD2AFM UnitAFM Unit600.10A.F.M. REGION 2FinanceDirector - Operational Finance (D2)

22DD3AGM UnitAGM Unit

700.00710.00710.11710.12710.13711.00711.11

ADDITIONAL GENERAL MANAGER REGION 3 PROJECT DIRECTOR (LIGHTING) RATNAPURA EE - STORES SK OPANAYAKA 1 (LIGHTING SRI LANKA RATNAPURA PROJECT) SK OPANAYAKA 2 (LIGHTING SRI LANKA RATNAPURA PROJECT) LIGHTING RATHNAPURA - PROJECT II (KALAWANA AND RAKWANA) STORES - LIGHTNING RATHNAPURA PRJ: II (KALAWANA & RAKWANA)

Operations - Division 3COO - Division 3

23DD3Commercial & CorporateDGM Unit

720.00720.10721.00722.00

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (COMMERCIAL & CORPORATE) ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNITELECTRICAL ENGINEER (METER LAB) REGION 3 CHIEF ENGINEER (CALL CENTRE)Operations - Division 3

Director - Commercial & Energy Transactions

24DD3

Sabara gamuwa ProvinceDGM Unit

550.00550.10550.11

550.12550.13550.14

D.G.M. (SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE) CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER APALAPITIYA - SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE STORE KEEPER OPANAYAKA - SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCESTORE KEEPER OPANAYAKA II - SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE CHIEF ENGINEER (PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT)

Operations - Division 3

Director - Sabaragamuwa Province

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

85A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

24DD3Sabaragamuwa Province DGM Unit

550.20 CHIEF ENGINEER(CONSTRUCTION)550.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)550.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)550.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER550.60 CONCRETE POLES CASTING SITES550.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)550.80 ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT - SABARAGAMUWA551.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER RATNAPURA551.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - RATNAPURA551.10 KALAWANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE551.20 RATNAPURA TOWN CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE551.30 MALWALA CSC551.40 ELAPATHA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER551.60 NIVITHIGALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE551.80 RATNAPURA AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT552.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - BALANGODA552.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - BELIHUL OYA553.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KAHAWATTA553.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KAHAWATTA553.10 BALANGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE553.20 KAHAWATTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE553.30 KALTOTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER553.40 GODAKAWELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE553.50 OPANAYAKEA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE553.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - KAHAWATTA554.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER RUWANWELLA554.03 STORE KEEPER RUWANWELLA554.10 KARAWANELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE554.20 KOTIYAKUMBURA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE554.30 DERANIYAGALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE554.40 CSC BULATHKOHUPITIYA554.50 GONAGALDENIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER554.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - RUWANWELLA557.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER EHALIYAGODA557.03 AREA STORES EHALIYAGODA557.10 EHALIYAGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE557.20 KURUWITA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE557.30 KIRIELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE557.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - EHELIYAGODA558.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER EMBILIPITIYA558.03 SK - EMBILIPITIYA558.10 EMBILIPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE558.20 GODAKAWELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE558.30 KOLONNA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE558.40 UDAWALAWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER558.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT – EMBILIPITIYA

Operations - Division 3Director - Sabaragamuwa Province

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202686A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

25DD3Uva ProvinceDGM Unit

530.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (UVA PROVINCE)530.10 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (DEVELOPMENT)530.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - UVA PROVINCE530.13 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)530.14 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (PLANNING)530.20 CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)530.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)530.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)530.50 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER530.60 ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT(UVA)530.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)530.80 UVA UDANA PROJECT534.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER BADULLA534.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - BADULLA534.10 PASSARA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE534.20 KANDAKETIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER534.30 MAHIYANGANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE534.40 BADULLA AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT534.80 BADULLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE534.90 HALI ELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTR535.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER DIYATALAWA535.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - DIYATALAWA535.10 DIYATALAWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE535.20 BANDARAWELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE535.30 WELIMADA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE535.40 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT535.50 UVA PARANAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER535.60 ELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE536.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER MONARAGALA536.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - MONARAGALA536.10 BIBILE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE536.20 MONARAGALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE536.30 WELLAWAYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE536.40 MONARAGALA AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT536.50 THANAMALVILA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE536.60 DAMBAGALLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER537.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - MAHIYANGANAYA537.03 STORE KEEPER - MAHIYANGANAYA537.10 KANDAKETIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE537.20 MAHIYANGANAYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE537.30 REDEEMALIYADDA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE537.90 MAHIYANGANAYA AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT538.00 WELLAWAYA AREA OFFICE538.03 STORE KEEPER WELLAWAYA538.10 BUTTALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER538.20 WELLAWAYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER538.30 THANAMALVILA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER538.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT – WELLAWAYA

Operations - Division 3Director - Uva Province

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

87A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

26DD3Western Province South II

DGM Unit

501.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER WPSII501.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - WESTERN PROVINCE SOUTH II501.13 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)501.14 CHIEF ENGINEER (PLANNIG)501.15 HUMAN RESOURCE OFFICER501.20 CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)501.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)501.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)501.60 CHIEF ENGINEER - ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT501.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)512.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER AVISSAWELLA512.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - AVISSAWELLA512.20 PADUKKA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE512.40 AVISSAWELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE512.50 HANWELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE512.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - AVISSAWELLA513.00 AREA ENGINEER SRI JAYAWARDENAPURA513.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - SRI JAYAWARDENAPURA513.10 WELIVITA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE513.20 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT513.30 TALANGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE513.40 ARANGALA MALABE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE513.50 PARLIAMENTR COMPLEX DEPOT513.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - J'PURA516.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER HOMAGAMA516.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - HOMAGAMA516.30 HOMAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE516.40 PANNIPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE516.50 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - HOKANDARA516.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - HOMAGAMA517.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER HORANA517.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - HORANA517.10 HORANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE517.20 INGIRIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER517.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - MORAGAHAHENA517.40 HORANA MAINTENANCE DEPOT517.50 BULATHSINGHALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE517.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - HORANA518.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER BANDARAGAMA518.03 AREA STORES BANDARAGAMA518.10 BANDARAGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE518.20 MILLENIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE518.30 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT518.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT- BANDARAGAMA

Operations - Division 3Director - Western Province South II

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202688A

ID

Allocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

27DD3Planning & DevelopmentDGM Unit

770.00

770.10770.20771.00

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT R3) CHIEF ENGINEER (PROCUREMENT)CHIEF ENGINEER (PLANNING) STORE KEEPER (REGION 3)

TechnologyDirector - Distribution System Planning & Design (D3)

28DD3Projects & Heavy Maintenance

DGM Unit

780.00780.10

780.11780.12780.20

D.G.M. (PROJECT & HEAVY MAINTANACE REGION 3)CHIEF ENGINEER-HEAVY LINE CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE STORE KEEPER - KOSGAMASTORE KEEPER HANWELLACHIEF ENGINEER - SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE

Operations - Division 3

Director - Projects & Heavy Maintenance

29DD3AFM UnitAFM Unit790.00 ADDITIONAL FINANCE MANAGER REGION 3FinanceDirector - Operational Finance (D3)

30DD4AGM UnitAGM Unit

970.00975.00

975.11975.20975.30976.00976.11977.00

977.10

978.00630.00

732.00750.00

ADDITIONAL GENERAL MANAGER REGION 4PROJECT DIRECTOR (LIGHTING SRI LANKA HAMBANTOTA PROJECT)E.E. - STORESE.E. - CONSTRUCTIONTOWER LINE CONSTRUCTIONS PROJECT DIRECTOR - LSSEP STORES - LSSEP PROJECTPD-PMU OF MEDIUM VOLTAGE NETWORK EFFICIENCY IMPRV PRJ-MVNEIP DC LYNX TOWER LINE EXTENSION FROM WENIWEL-ERA TO SOORIYAWEWA PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (VIDULAKPAYA)DGM (MEDIUM VOLTAGE CONSTRUCTION & MAINTANANCE) WIND POWER PROJECT HAMBANTHOTADGM - DEMAND SIDE MANAGEMENT

Operations - Division 4COO - Division 4

31DD4Commercial & CorporateDGM Unit971.00 D.G.M. (COMMERCIAL CORPORATE)971.10 DEHIWALA SMART METERING PROJECT562.00 E.E.METER LAB-R4

Operations - Division 4Director - Commercial & Energy Transactions

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

89A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

Division BranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

32DD4Western Province South I

DGM Unit

510.00 D.G.M. (WESTERN PROVINCE SOUTH 1)510.10 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)510.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - WESTERN PROVINCE SOUTH 1510.14 CHIEF ENGINEER (PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT)510.20 CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)510.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)510.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)510.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)510.80 C.E. (ENERGY MANAGEMENT)510.81 ORDINARY THREE PHASE METER TESTING AND REHABILITATION510.82 ORDINARY SINGLE PHASE METER TESTING AND REHABILITATION510.83 BULK SUPPLY METER POINT REHABILITATION510.84 TRANSFORMERS WISE ENERGY AUDITING510.85 DEMAND SIDE MANAGEMENT511.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER RATMALANA511.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - RATMALANA511.10 RATMALANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE511.20 KESBEWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE511.30 BORALASGAMUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER511.40 DOOR STEP SERVICE UNIT511.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT - RATMALANA514.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER KALUTARA514.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - KALUTARA514.10 PULLERTON CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE514.20 MATHUGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE514.30 BERUWALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE514.40 PANADURA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE514.50 AGALAWATTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE514.80 KALUTARA G.I. DEPOT514.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT DEPOT515.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER DEHIWALA515.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - DEHIWALA515.10 BREAKDOWN DEPOT 1515.20 DEHIWALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE515.30 KALUBOWILA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE515.50 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT-I515.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT-II519.00 AREA OFFICE - MATUGAMA519.03 STORE KEEPER - MATUGAMA519.10 MATUGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE519.20 AGALAWATTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE519.30 MEEGAHATENNA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE519.40 BADURALIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE519.90 AREA MAINTENANCE UNIT – MATUGAMA

Operations - Division 4

Director – Western Province South I

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202690A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

33DD4Southern Province IDGM Unit

520.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (SOUTHERN PROVINCE)520.10 CE - COMMERCIAL520.11 PROVINCIAL STORE KEEPER - SOUTHERN PROVINCE520.12 STORES FOR DEYATA KIRULA - 2015 MATARA DISTRICT520.13 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL)520.14 ELECTRICAL ENGINEER (SYSTEM PLANING)520.20 CHIEF ENGINEER (CONSTRUCTION)520.30 CHIEF ENGINEER (DISTRIBUTION MAINTENANCE)520.40 ACCOUNTANT (EXPENDITURE)520.60 ENERGY MANAGEMENT UNIT (SOUTHERN PROVINCE)520.61 ENERGY MANAGEMENT - GALLE520.62 ENERGY MANAGEMENT - AKURESSA1.63 ENERGY MANAGEMENT - AMBALANGODA/BADDEGAMA520.70 ACCOUNTANT (REVENUE)521.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER GALLE521.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - GALLE521.10 GALLE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE521.20 BATADUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE521.30 WANDURAMBA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE521.40 HABARADUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE521.50 THAWALAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE521.70 REHABILITATION DEPOT524.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER AMBALANGODA524.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - AMBALANGODA524.10 SEENIGODA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE524.20 GONAPEENUWELA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE524.30 INDURUWA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE524.40 ELPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE524.50 THALLGASWALA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE525.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER AKURESSA525.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - WELIGAMA525.10 WELIGAMA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE525.20 AKURESSA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE525.30 DENIYAYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE525.40 MORAWAKA (SUB) CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER527.00 AREA ENGINEER BADDEGAMA527.03 STORE KEEPER - BADDEGAMA527.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - BADDEGAMA527.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - GONAPEENUWALA527.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - THALAGASWALA527.40 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE - WANDURAMBA

Operations - Division 4Director – Southern Province I

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

91A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEBCost Centers: Number & NameAllocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

34DD4Southern Province IIDGM Unit

940.00 DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (SP-2)940.10 CHIEF ENGINEER (COMMERCIAL) - SP 2940.11 PROVINCIAL STORES (SP-2)940.14 CE (PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT)940.20 CE (CONSTRUCTION)940.30 CE (DITRIBUTION & MAINTENENACE)940.40 ACCOUNTANT - EXPENDITURE940.60 CE (ENERGY MANAGEMENT)940.61 ENERGY MANAGEMENT - MATARA940.62 ENERGY MANAGEMENT - TANGALLE/HAMBANTOTA940.70 ACCOUNTANT - REVENUE941.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - HAMBANTOTA - SP2941.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - HAMBANTOTA941.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - HAMBANTOTA941.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - KATARAGAMA941.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - SOORIYAWEWA941.40 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - TISSAMAHARAMA941.50 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - AMBALANTOTA942.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - MATARA942.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - MATARA942.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - MATARA942.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - HITTETIYA942.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - DIKWELLA943.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - TANGALLE - SP2943.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - TANGALLE943.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - BELIATTA943.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - TANGALLE943.30 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - WALASMULLA943.40 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - MIDDENIYA943.50 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - AGUNUKOLAPELESSA944.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER - KAMBURUPITIYA - SP2944.10 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER - KAMBURUPITIYA944.20 CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER – HAKMANA522.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER MATARA522.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - MATARA522.10 MATARA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE522.20 KAMBURUPITIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE522.40 HITTETIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE522.50 HAKMANA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE522.60 DIKWELLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE523.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER HAMBANTOTA526.00 AREA ELECTRICAL ENGINEER526.03 AREA STORE KEEPER - TANGALLE526.10 TANGALLE CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE526.20 BELIATTA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE526.30 WALASMULLA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE526.40 ANGUNAKOLAPELESSA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTRE526.50 MIDDENIYA CONSUMER SERVICE CENTER

Operations - Division 4Director – Southern Province II

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202692A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

35DD4Planning & DevelopmentDGM Unit973.00 D.G.M. (PLANNING DEVELOPMENT)TechnologyDirector - Distribution System Planning & Design (D4)

36DD4Projects & Heavy MaintenanceDGM Unit

972.00972.03972.10972.11972.12972.20972.30

D.G.M. (PROJECTS HEAVY MAINTENANCE)

STORE KEEPER - PHMR 4PROJECT MANAGER (EDDPDML) PHM(R4) FULLATON STORES WAREHOUSE EDDPDML D4CE (SUBSTATION CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE) CE (LINE CONSTRUCTION & MAINTENANCE)

Operations - Division 4

Director - Projects & Heavy Maintenance

37DD4AFM UnitAFM Unit974.00 ADDITIONAL FINANCE MANAGER REGION 4FinanceDirector - Operational Finance (D4)

38Corporate StrategyAGM UnitAGM Unit260.00 A.G.M. CORPORATE STRATEGY OFFICEOperations - Digital VenturesCOO - Digital Ventures

39Corporate StrategyBusiness & Operational StrategyDGM Unit

204.00260.10260.11260.40260.60260.70

PUBLICITY UNITDGM BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL STRATEGY STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION UNITD.G.M. (RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT) MANAGER PUBLICITYPROJECT DIRECTOR-INTEGRATED ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (ERP)

CEODirector - ESG Aspects & Corporate Strategies

40Corporate StrategyCorporate Strategy & Regulatory AffairsDGM Unit260.30 D.G.M. - CORPORATE STRATEGY & REGULATORY AFFAIRSTechnologyDirector - Energy Transactions & Regulatory Affairs

41Corporate StrategyPower Sector Reforms Liaison OfficeDGM Unit260.51 DGM POWER SECTOR REFORM LIAISON OFFICECEODirector - ESG Aspects & Corporate Strategies

42Corporate StrategyInformation TechnologyDGM Unit260.20 DGM (INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY)Operations - Digital VenturesDirector - Utility Solutions & Automation

43Finance DivisionFM UnitFM Unit900.00 FINANCE MANAGERFinanceCFO

44Finance Division

AFM (Corporate) UnitAFM Unit

920.00920.10920.20921.00930.00

AFM - PLANNING & INFORMATIONDEPUTY FINANCE MANAGER (PLANNING & INFORMATION) DEPUTY FINANCE MANAGER (CONSOLIDATION & SYSTEMS) DFM - PLANNING & INFORMATIONAFM - SYSTEMS & AUDIT

FinanceDirector - Corporate Finance

45Finance DivisionAFM (Head Quarters) Unit*AFM Unit

910.00 AFM-HEAD QUARTERS911.00 DFM - HEAD QUARTERS 911.10 ACCOUNTANT - PAYROLL 911.11 ACCOUNTANT - CENTRAL CASH 911.12 ACCOUNTANT - GENERAL LEDGER912.00 ACCOUNTANT - PROJECT913.00 ACCOUNTANT - PAYMENT914.00 ACCOUNTANT - LEDGER915.00 DEPUTY FINANCE MANAGER - TAX UNIT

FinanceDirector - Operational Finance (Group)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

93A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EDL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

46Finance DivisionFM (Strategic Management) UnitFM Unit901.00 FINANCE MANAGER (STRATERGIC MANAGEMENT AND BULK SUPPLY OPERATION)925.00 ADDITIONAL FINANCE MANAGER (TREASURY MANAGEMENT)

FinanceCFO (Strategic Management Unit)

47Branches under GMGM OfficeGM Office120.00200.10GM'S OFFICEMINISTRY OF POWER & ENERGYCEOCEO

48Branches under GMCoordinationDGM Unit260.50FUNCTIONAL STRATEGY & PROCESS DEVELOPMENTCEODirector - Coordination with EVL

49Branches under GMPersonnelDGM Unit250.00250.10250.20

DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (PERSONNEL) WELFARE OFFICERCHIEF ENGINEER (POLICY)

CEODirector - Personnel

50Branches under GMEngineering AuditEngineering Audit140.00260.41DGM - ENGINEERING AUDIT ENGINEERING AUDIT BRANCH

TechnologyDirector - Distribution Coordination & Engineering Audits

51Branches under GMSpecial Investigation UnitSIU170.00MANAGER SPECIAL INVESTIGATION UNITCEOSIU

52Branches under GMLegalLegal205.00LEGAL OFFICERCEODirector - Legal & Compliance

* All the employees of Provident and Pension Fund Branch of the CEB shall be assigned to EDL. The employees from EDL shall be designated to do the operations in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited (CEBEF). The assets and liabilities of Provident and Pension Fund Branch are allocated to CEBEF and provisional balance sheet of CEBEF is prepared accordingly as provided in Schedule V.3.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202694A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.4: Provisional balance sheet of Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited (EDL) based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

EQUITY AND LIABILITIESLKR'000ASSETSLKR'000

Capital & ReservesNon-Current Assets

Contributed Capital240,954,204Property, Plant & Equipment356,999,819

Reserves19,287,514Intangible Assets55,667

Retained Earnings/ (Loss)(97,851,064)Investment in Subsidiaries / Associates / JV628,003

Total Equity162,390,653Investments of Insurance Reserves Fund6,488,556

Non-Current Liabilities and Deferred IncomeOther Financial Assets5,623,373

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings (Refer note below)78,815,741Other Non-Current Assets incl. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale1,720,829

Consumer Deposits17,500,508Total Non-Current Assets371,516,246

Provisions & Other Deferred Liabilities24,222,133Current Assets

Government Grants61,189Inventories51,454,464

Contract Liabilities116,713,562Trade and Other Receivables60,883,307

Total Non-Current Liabilities237,313,134Other Financial Assets4,133,347

Current LiabilitiesCash and Cash Equivalents45,362,401

Trade and Other Payables (incl. Income Tax Liabilities)86,194,775

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings24,383,244

Total Current Liabilities110,578,020Total Current Assets161,833,519

Current Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)289,079,018Transit Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)266,011,060

Total Equity and Liabilities799,360,825Total Assets799,360,825

Note: The working capital loans allocated to EDL pertaining to CEB shall be allowed to be recovered through tariff

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

95A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.5: Register of assets of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202696A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.6: Register of bank accounts of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

97A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.7: Register of debts of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to and vested in Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.202698A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.8: Register of legal suits of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date.

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

99A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.9: Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date.

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026100A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.10: Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Distribution Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 4, Corporate Strategy Division, Finance Division and branches under the General Manager of the CEB transferred to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date.

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

101A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.11: Register of Preliminary Staff Allocation to Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date.

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026102A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Schedule IV.12: Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited (EDL) from Band A to D

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

103A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited (EDL)

IDDesignation in EDLPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEBBand B: CEO LevelProposed Cadre: 1

1CEOGeneral Manager

Band C: C LevelProposed Cadre: 10 (Permanent), 1 (Temporary)

1COO - Division 1AGM - DD1

2COO - Division 2AGM - DD2

3COO - Division 3AGM - DD3

4COO - Division 4AGM - DD45COO - Digital VenturesAGM - Corporate Strategy6CTONA7CFOFinance Manager

8CHRONA9CIANA10Board SecretaryNA11CFO - Strategic Management Unit (Temporary Position)Finance Manager - Strategic Management Unit

Band D: SM LevelProposed Cadre: 46 (Permanent), 2 (Temporary)

Operations Wing - Division 11Director - Commercial & Energy TransactionsDGM - Commercial & Corporate (DD1)2Director - Projects & Heavy MaintenanceDGM - Projects & Heavy Maintenance (DD1)

3Director - Colombo CityDGM - Colombo City

4Director - North Central ProvinceDGM - North Central Province5Director - Northern ProvinceDGM - Northern Province6Director - North Western Province IDGM - North Western Province I7Director - North Western Province IIDGM - North Western Province IIOperations Wing - Division 21Director - Commercial & Energy TransactionsDGM - Commercial & Corporate (DD2)2Director - Projects & Heavy MaintenanceDGM - Projects & Heavy Maintenance (DD2)3Director - Central Province IDGM - Central Province I4Director - Central Province IIDGM - Central Province II5Director - Eastern ProvinceDGM - Eastern Province

6Director - Western Province NorthDGM - Western Province North

Operations Wing - Division 3

1Director - Commercial & Energy TransactionsDGM - Commercial & Corporate (DD3)

2Director - Projects & Heavy MaintenanceDGM - Projects & Heavy Maintenance (DD3)

3Director - Sabaragamuwa ProvinceDGM - Sabaragamuwa Province4Director - Uva ProvinceDGM - Uva Province

5Director - Western Province South IIDGM - Western Province South II

Operations Wing - Division 4

1Director - Commercial & Energy TransactionsDGM - Commercial & Corporate (DD4)

2Director - Projects & Heavy MaintenanceDGM - Projects & Heavy Maintenance (DD4)

3Director - Southern Province IDGM - Southern Province I

4Director - Southern Province IIDGM - Southern Province II

5Director - Western Province South IDGM - Western Province South I

Operations Wing - Digital Ventures

1Director - Enterprise Digital SolutionsNA

2Director - Utility Solutions & AutomationDGM - Information Technology

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026104A

Schedule IV: Electricity Distribution Undertaking

Preliminary Allocation of Employees of the CEB to Bands B, C and D in Transitional Organizational Structure of Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited (EDL)

IDDesignation in EDLPreliminary Allocated Employee of the CEB

Technology Wing

1Director - Distribution System Planning and Design (D1)DGM - Planning and Development (DD1)

2Director - Distribution System Planning and Design (D2)DGM - Planning and Development (DD2)

3Director - Distribution System Planning and Design (D3)DGM - Planning and Development (DD3)

4Director - Distribution System Planning and Design (D4)DGM - Planning and Development (DD4)

5Director - Distribution Coordination and Engineering AuditsDGM - Distribution Coordination

6Director - ProcurementNA

7Director - Distribution ContractsNA

8Director - Distributed GenerationNA

9Director - Energy Transactions & Regulatory AffairsDGM - Corporate Strategy & Regulatory Affairs

10Director - Civil ConstructionsNA

Finance Wing

1Director - Corporate FinanceAFM - Corporate

2Director - Operational Finance (D1)AFM - DD1

3Director - Operational Finance (D2)AFM - DD2

4Director - Operational Finance (D3)AFM - DD3

5Director - Operational Finance (D4)AFM - DD4

6Director - Operational Finance (Group)AFM - HQ

7Director - Finance (Digital Ventures)NA

Human Resources Management Wing

1Director - Human Resources ManagementNA

2Director - General AdministrationNA

CEO Wing

1Director - ESG Aspects & Corporate StrategiesDGM - Business & Operational Strategy

2Director - Legal & ComplianceNA

3Director - Coordination with EVL (Temporary Position)DGM - Coordination (PA to GM, CEB)

4Director - Personnel (Temporary Position)DGM - Personnel

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

105A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

The CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking shall stand transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date.

Schedule V.1: Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited -

(a) Duties, functions and activities of the management of the CEB Employees’ Provident Fund and CEB Employees’ Pension Fund;

(b) Duties, functions and activities as the custodian and trustee and, managing of such Provident Fund and Pension Fund and the monies required to meet the Provident Fund and Pension Fund obligations of the employees of the CEB; and

(c) Assets, liabilities and functions of the CEB including legal ownership, relating to the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026106A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.2: Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited (CEBEF)

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in CEBEF

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned Wing Assigned Unit

1Finance DivisionProvident Fund Branch*DFM Unit160.00 ACCOUNTANT PROVIDENT FUNDFinanceCFO

2Finance DivisionPension Fund Branch*DFM Unit162.00 ACCOUNTATN PENSION FUNDFinanceCFO

* All the employees of Provident and Pension Fund Branch of the CEB shall be assigned to EDL. The employees from EDL shall be designated to do the operations in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited (CEBEF). The assets and liabilities of Provident and Pension Fund Branch are allocated to CEBEF and provisional balance sheet of CEBEF is prepared accordingly as provided in Schedule V.3.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

107A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.3: Provisional balance sheet of CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited (CEBEF) based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

EQUITY AND LIABILITIESASSETSLKR'000

Capital & ReservesNon-Current Assets

Contributed Capital-Property, Plant & Equipment9,830

Reserves308Intangible Assets-

Retained Earnings/ (Loss)-Investment in Subsidiaries / Associates / JV-

Total Equity308Investments of Insurance Reserves Fund155

Non-Current Liabilities and Deferred IncomeOther Financial Assets-

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings-Other Non-Current Assets incl. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale-

Consumer Deposits-Total Non-Current Assets9,985

Provisions & Other Deferred Liabilities-Current Assets

Government Grants-Inventories-

Contract Liabilities-Trade and Other Receivables100

Total Non-Current Liabilities-Other Financial Assets-

Current LiabilitiesCash and Cash Equivalents-

Trade and Other Payables (incl. Income Tax Liabilities)1,534

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings-

Total Current Liabilities1,534Total Current Assets100

Current Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)8,243Transit Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)-

Total Equity and Liabilities10,085Total Assets10,085

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026108A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.4: Register of assets of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

109A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.5: Register of bank accounts of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026110A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.6: Register of debts of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to and vested in CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

111A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.7: Register of legal suits of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026112A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.8: Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

113A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.9: Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the Provident Fund and the Pension Fund of the CEB transferred to CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026114A

Schedule V: CEB Provident Fund and Pension Fund Undertaking

Schedule V.10: Transitional Organizational Structure of CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited (CEBEF) from Band A to D

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

115A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

The Support Services Undertaking shall stand transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited on and from the Appointed Date.

Schedule VI.1: Assets, Liabilities, Duties, Functions and Activities of the CEB including legal ownership transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited -

(a) Duties, functions and activities of the Assets Management Division of the CEB in assets and facility management, civil works and buildings, occupational health, safety and environment aspects related services, workshop and ancillary services and security services;

(b) Duties, functions and activities of the CEB other than those entrusted to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited, National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited, National System Operator (Private) Limited, Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited and CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited; and

(c) Assets, liabilities and functions of the CEB including legal ownership, relating to -

(i) the assets and facility management, civil works and buildings, occupational health, safety and environment aspects related services, workshop and ancillary services and security services of the Assets Management Division of the CEB; and

(ii) the properties, lands, buildings, vehicles, plants, tools, equipments, machineries, software, hardware, houseware, furniture, fixtures, office equipment, electrical apparatus, computers, phones, IT systems, communication and signal systems, security systems and equipments, building management systems, civil and mechanical works installations, structures and associated buildings, social and welfare centers, laboratories, training centers and workshops, spares, consumables, raw materials, works in progress, items sent for repairs, scraps and obsolete items owned and occupied by the CEB other than those entrusted to Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) Limited, National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited, National System Operator (Private) Limited, Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited and CEB Employees Funds (Private) Limited.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026116A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.2: Allocation of existing cost centers and branches of the CEB to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited (EVL)

ID

Allocation in CEB

Cost Centers: Number & Name

Allocation in EVL

DivisionBranchUnitAssigned WingAssigned Unit

1Assets Management AGM UnitAGM Unit 960.00AGM ASSET MANAGEMENTOperationsCOO

2Assets ManagementAssets Management & CorporateDGM Unit 960.05DGM ASSETS MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATEOperationsCOO

3Assets Management Civil Works & Buildings DGM Unit 640.00D.G.M. (CIVIL WORKS & BUILDINGS)OperationsCOO

4Assets Management Occupational Health & safetyDGM Unit 660.00DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGER (OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY)OperationsCOO

5Assets ManagementWork Shop & Ancillary Services

DGM Unit

650.00 651.00 653.00 656.00 657.00

D.G.M. (WORKSHOP & ANCILLARY SERVICES) CE (CENTRAL WORKSHOP) AND GARAGECE (POWER PLANT)CE (AIR CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION) CE (LIFTS)

OperationsCOO

6Assets Management VidulakpayaPD Unit 960.30PD (PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT-VIDULAKPAYA)OperationsCOO

7Assets Management AFM UnitAFM Unit 960.10AFM (ASSET MANAGEMENT)FinanceCFO

8Assets ManagementSecurity UnitSM Unit203.00 MANAGER (SECURITY)OperationsCOO

* All the employees of the Assets Management Division of the CEB shall be assigned to NTNSP. The employees from NTNSP shall be designated to do the operations in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited (EVL). The assets and liabilities of the Asset Management Division other than under the Training Branch are allocated to EVL and provisional balance sheet of EVL is prepared accordingly as provided in Schedule VI.3.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

117A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.3: Provisional balance sheet of Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited (EVL) based on CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES LKR'000ASSETSLKR'000

Capital & ReservesNon-Current Assets

Contributed Capital- Property, Plant & Equipment1,830,271

Reserves41,912 Intangible Assets-

Retained Earnings/ (Loss)- Investment in Subsidiaries / Associates / JV-

Total Equity41,912 Investments of Insurance Reserves Fund20,877

Non-Current Liabilities and Deferred IncomeOther Financial Assets-

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings-Other Non-Current Assets incl. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale-

Consumer Deposits- Total Non-Current Assets1,851,148

Provisions & Other Deferred Liabilities- Current Assets

Government Grants26,665 Inventories128,855

Contract Liabilities- Trade and Other Receivables590,448

Total Non-Current Liabilities26,665 Other Financial Assets-

Current LiabilitiesCash and Cash Equivalents-

Trade and Other Payables (incl. Income Tax Liabilities)453,329

Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings(9,735)

Total Current Liabilities443,593 Total Current Assets719,303

Current Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)2,058,280 Transit Account (incl. transfer plan adjustments)-

Total Equity and Liabilities2,570,451 Total Assets2,570,451

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026118A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.4: Register of assets of the CEB transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

119A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.5: Register of bank accounts of the CEB transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026120A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.6: Register of debts of the CEB transferred to and vested in Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

121A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.7: Register of legal suits of the CEB transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026122A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.8: Register of contracts, contractual commitments and liabilities of the CEB transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

123A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.9: Register of licenses, approvals, permits and clearances of the CEB transferred to Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited as at the Appointed Date

Certified details and figures by the General Manager of the CEB at the Appointed Date will be contained in this Schedule.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026124A

Schedule VI: Support Services Undertaking

Schedule VI.10: Transitional Organizational Structure of Energy Ventures Lanka (Private) Limited (EVL) from Band A to D

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

125A

Schedule VII: Proposed assignation to the respective successor companies

Successor Company of CEBAssigned CEB Employees

Electricity Generation Lanka (Private) LimitedEmployees of Generation Division

National Transmission Network Service Provider (Private) Limited

Employees of Transmission-Wired Division

Employees of Projects DivisionEmployees of Assets Management Division

National System Operator (Private) Limited

Employees of Transmission-Non Wired Division

Employees of Chairman's Office and Employees of Branches under Chairman

Electricity Distribution Lanka (Private) Limited

Employees of Distribution Division 1

Employees of Distribution Division 2

Employees of Distribution Division 3

Employees of Distribution Division 4

Employees of Corporate Strategy DivisionEmployees of Branches under General Manager

Employees of Finance Division

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026126A

Schedule VIII: Voluntary Retirement Scheme

This Voluntary Retirement Scheme (“VRS") shall apply to every officer and servant of the CEB who do not opt to be assigned to a successor company and be entitled to voluntary retirement under a voluntary retirement scheme referred to in the provisions of paragraph (f) of subsection (3) of section 18 of the Electricity Act.

Terms and conditions of the VRS shall be as follows -

1. The compensation payable under the VRS, to the following categories of employees who are serving under the permanent cader of the CEB shall be as follows -

(a) employees who count ten years or more than ten years of service -

(i) 2.0 months salary for every twelve months of past service; and

(ii) 1.5 months salary for every twelve months of service foregone;

(b) employees who count less than ten years of service -

(i) 5.0 months salary for every twelve months of past service; and

(ii) no payment shall be made for the service foregone;

2. The compensation specified in this section 1 shall be paid subject to a minimum limit of Sri Lankan Rupees nine hundred thousand and maximum limit of Sri Lankan Rupees five million.

3. The compensation payable to the employees who are not categorized as employees serving under the permanent cader of the CEB excluding the employees serving under the contractual agreements, shall be as follows -

(a) 2.0 months salary for every twelve months of past service;

(b) minimum compensation shall be twelve months salary; and

(c) method of calculation of compensation (22 x daily wage x number of months).

4. The compensation payable under section 1 or section 3 shall be calculated on the basis of monthly salary taken into account in calculating the amount of the Provident Fund at the time of retirement excluding the interim and other allowances ;

5. In addition to the compensation, all statutory payments shall be made in terms of the provisions of the relevant acts.

6. The employees subject to disciplinary inquiries or whose status are in question in any tribunal shall not be eligible to apply for the VRS ;

7. All outstanding dues from respective employees shall be recovered from the compensation payable under section 1 or section 3 ;

8. Any employee who voluntary retires under the VRS and is payable with the compensation specified under the VRS shall not be employed in any successor company under any circumstance.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'10Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.03.2026

127A

References to the Schedules ;

1. CEB Audited Financial Statements as of 31.12.2024 with the Auditor Generals’ qualification2. Preliminary Assets Valuation by the Chief Valuer

EOG 03 - 0065

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.