==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20161A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

Government Notifications

w;s úfYI

wxl 1998$38 - 2016 foieïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'12'23

No. 1998/38 - FRIDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

L.D.B. 3/2009(III)

SRI LANKA ELECTRICITY ACT, No. 20 OF 2009

RULES made by the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka under Section 53 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20of 2009 read with Section 27 of that Act.

SALIYA MATHEW,

Chairman,Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka.

Colombo,23rd December 2016.

Rules

1. These Rules may be cited as the Electricity (Information required to ascertain insufficient means to defray intotal at once the expenditure relating to connection and supply of electricity) Rules No. 04 of 2016.

2. Any person who requires a supply of electricity under Section 25 of the Act, but does not have sufficientmeans to pay in total at once the expenses reasonably incurred by a Distribution Licensee in providing any electrical lineor electrical plant or connection and supply of electricity to the person concerned, may request the Distribution Licenseeto recover such expenses in reasonable monthly instalments along with the tariff and any other charges levied by theDistribution Licensee as per the standard tariff agreement.

3. Where the Distribution Licensee is satisfied that the person requesting such supply of electricity does nothave sufficient means to pay in total at once the expenses incurred by a Distribution Licensee in providing a connectionand supply of electricity, prior to providing the electric line or electrical plant or connection and supply of electricity, theDistribution Licensee shall request such person to enter into an agreement regarding the manner in which the expenseswould be paid by him to the Distribution Licensee.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20162A

4. Criteria for the purpose of ascertaining whether a prospective Domestic Consumer has sufficient means topay in total at once the expenses incurred by the Distribution Licensee in providing a connection and supply of electricityshall be based on the level of household income.

5. The following criteria shall be used for the purpose of being satisfied that a prospective Domestic Consumerdoes not have sufficient means to pay in total at once the expenses incurred by the Distribution Licensee in providing aconnection and supply of electricity-

(i)the fact that the person requesting the supply of electicity (being the owner or occupier of the premisesat which the supply is required) is a Divinaguma beneficiary ; or

(ii)the fact that monthly household income of the occupants, including the owner or occupier requestingthe supply of electicity at the premises where the supply of electricity is required, is less than 50% ofthe median income of households in Sri Lanka as specified by the Department of Census and Statisticsfrom time to time based on the Household Income and Expenditure Survey (HIES).

6. The information required by the Distribution Licensee to make the determination shall be comprised of thefollowing :-

(i) if the person requesting the supply of electricity (being the owner or occupier of the premises at which

the supply is required) is a Divinaguma beneficiary, a certificate issued by the Grama Niladharicountersigned by the Divisional Secretary of the relevant Divisional Secretaries’ Division confirmingthe same ; or

(ii) if the monthly household income of the occupants, including the owner or occupier requesting the

supply of electricity, is less than 50% of the median income of households in Sri Lanka, an IncomeAssessment Form issued by the Divisional Secretary of the relevant Divisional Secretaries’ Divisionconfirming the same.

7. The expenses reasonably incurred by the Distribution Licensee in providing the electrical line, electrical plantor connection and supply of electricity shall be recovered in reasonable monthly instalments along with the tariff and anyother charges levied by the Distribution Licensee as per the standard tariff agreement :

Provided however, such monthly instalments shall-

(i) not be more than five percent of the declared household income with the maximum deduction being not

more than Rs. 1,500 (equivalent to five percent of the median income of households in Sri Lanka asspecified by the Department of Census and Statistics from time to time based the Household Incomeand Expenditure Survey) ;

(ii) be recovered over a period of not less than 24 months ; and

(iii) be synchronized with the seasonal variatioins of income patterns, such as the cultivation cycle, if

applicable.

8. Interest may be charged only as per the standard tariff agreement after the due and at the rate specified by theCommission.

9. The Distribution Licensee shall also consider requests form prospective Domestic Consumers who do notmeet the above criteria, such as elderly persons over the age of 55 years, pensioners, disabled soldiers, whether theperson requesting the supply of electricity is the owner of the premises, the extent of the premises as well as housingconditions etc., and, to satisfy that such person do not have sufficient means, shall adopt fiairly and transparently suchother criteria as the Distribution Licensee deems appropriate.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'12'23PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20163A

10. The Distribution Licensee shall also consider persons other than prospective Domestic Consumers, andshall adopt fairly and transparently such other criteria either individually or consumer tariff category-wise as the DistributionLicensee deems appropriate.

11. In adopting such other criteria, the Distribution Licensee shall be mindful that what constitutes insufficientmeans would vary by individual consumer and consumer category as well as by the nature and scope of the connection andsupply of electricity requested, and the Distribution Licensee shall consider each request on a case by case basis whileadopting generic criterion where possible.

12. In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires :

“Act” means the Sri Lanka Electricity Act, No. 20 of 2009 ;

“Commission” means the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka established under the Public Utilities

Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 ;

“Distribution Licensee” means a person who has been granted a license to distribute and supply or distribute

or supply electricity for the purpose of giving a supply to any premises or enabling a supply to be sogiven in the Authorized Area as per Paragraph (c) (i) (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 13 of the Act.

“Domestic Consumer” means a person who is provided a supply of electricity under the domestic consumer

tariff category.

01-209

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.