==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2393$29 - 2024 cQ,s ui 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024'07'18No. 2393/29 - THURSDAY, JULY 18, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV

1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, No. 15 of 1995

Publication under Section 4(2)

BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), the Institute has adopted to the Sri Lanka Auditing Standards SLAuS 600 (Revised) special considerations – DXGLWVRIJURXS¿QDQFLDOVWDWHPHQWV LQFOXGLQJWKHZRUNRIFRPSRQHQWDXGLWRUV DQGWKLV6/$X6LVH൵HFWLYHIRUDXGLWVRI¿QDQFLDOVWDWHPHQWVIRUSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHU'HFHPEHUSXEOLVKHGKHUHZLWKIRUWKHSXUSRVHRIWKH6UL/DQND$FFRXQWLQJDQG$XGLWLQJ6WDQGDUGV$FW1RRI (DUOLHUDSSOLFDWLRQLVSHUPLWWHG

By Order of the Council,

R. S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං Secretary.

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, No. 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha, &RORPER18th July, 2024.

$3*  



N.B.—6LQKDODDQG7DPLOYHUVLRQVRIWKLV*D]HWWH([WUDRUGLQDU\DUHSXEOLVKHGVHSDUDWHO\

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

SRI LANKA AUDITING STANDARD 600 (REVISED)SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (INCLUDING THE WORK OF COMPONENT AUDITORS)

(Effective for audits of financial statements for periods beginning on or after December 15, 2024)

CONTENTS

ParagraphIntroduction

Scope of this SLAuS……………………………………………………………………………..1–11

Effective Date………………………………………………………………………………..…..12

Objectives………………………………………………………………………………..………13

Definitions………………………………………………………………………………..……...14-15

Requirements

Leadership Responsibilities for Managing and Achieving Quality on a Group Audit………….16

Acceptance and Continuance…………………………………………………………………….17-21

Overall Group Audit Strategy and Group Audit Plan……………………………………………22-29

Understanding the Group and Its Environment, the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework and the Group’s System of Internal Control…………………………………………30-32

Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement………………………………….33-34

Materiality………………………………………………………………………………………..35-36

Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement……………………………………37-44

Evaluating the Component Auditor’s Communications and the Adequacy of Their Work……..45-48

Subsequent Events………………………………………………………………………………..49-50

Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence Obtained…………………..51-52

Auditor’s Report…………………………………………………………………………………..53

Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with Governance of the Group…54-58

Documentation……………………………………………………………………………………59

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 3A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Scope of this SLAuS…………………………………………………………………………..A1-A18

Definitions…………………………………………………………………………………….A19-A28

Leadership Responsibilities for Managing and Achieving Quality on a Group Audit……….A29-A31

Acceptance and Continuance…………………………………………………………………A32-A46

Overall Group Audit Strategy and Group Audit Plan………………………………………..A47-A87

Understanding the Group and Its Environment, the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework and the Group’s System of Internal Control…………………………………….A88-A107

Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement…………………………….. A108-A115

Materiality…………………………………………………………………………………… A116-A123

Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement……………………………….A124-143

Evaluating the Component Auditor’s Communication and the Adequacy of Their Work…. A144-A149

Subsequent Events…………………………………………………………………………..A150

Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence Obtained…………….A151-A156

Auditor’s Report…………………………………………………………………………….A157-A158

Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with Governance of the Group…………………………………………………………………… A159-A165

Documentation……………………………………………………………………………… A166-A182

Appendix 1: Illustration of Independent Auditor’s Report When the Group Auditor is Not Able to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence on Which to Base the Group Audit Opinion

Appendix 2: Understanding the Group’s System of Internal Control

Appendix 3: Examples of Events or Conditions That May Give Rise to Risks of Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements

Sri Lanka Auditing Standard (SLAuS) 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors), should be read in conjunction with SLAuS200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards.

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Introduction

Scope of this SLAuS

1.The Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs) apply to an audit of group financial statements (a groupaudit). This SLAuS deals with special considerations that apply to a group audit, including in thosecircumstances when component auditors are involved. The requirements and guidance in this SLAuS referto, or expand on, the application of other relevant SLAuSs to a group audit, in particular SLAuS 220(Revised),1SLAuS 230,2 SLAuS 300,3SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),4and SLAuS 330.5 (Ref: Para. A1–A2)

2.Group financial statements include the financial information of more than one entity or business unitthrough a consolidation process, as described in paragraph 14(k). The term consolidation process as usedin this SLAuS refers not only to the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance withthe applicable financial reporting framework, but also to the presentation of combined financialstatements, and to the aggregation of the financial information of entities or business units such asbranches or divisions. (Ref: Para. A3–A5, A27)

3.As explained in SLAuS 220 (Revised),6 this SLAuS, adapted as necessary in the circumstances, may alsobe useful in an audit of financial statements other than a group audit when the engagement team includesindividuals from another firm. For example, this SLAuS may be useful when involving such an individualto attend a physical inventory count, inspect property, plant and equipment, or perform audit proceduresat a shared service center at a remote location.

Groups and Components

4.A group may be organized in various ways. For example, a group may be organized by legal or otherentities (e.g., a parent and one or more subsidiaries, joint ventures, or investments accounted for by theequity method). Alternatively, the group may be organized by geography, by other economic units(including branches or divisions), or by functions or business activities. In this SLAuS, these differentforms of organization are collectively referred to as “entities or business units.” (Ref: Para. A6)

5.The group auditor determines an appropriate approach to planning and performing audit procedures torespond to the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements. For this purpose,the group auditor uses professional judgment in determining the components at which audit work will beperformed. This determination is based on the group auditor’s understanding of the group and itsenvironment, and other factors such as the ability to perform audit procedures centrally, the presence ofshared service centers, or the existence of common information systems and internal control. (Ref: Para.A7–A9)

Involvement of Component Auditors

6.SLAuS 220 (Revised)7 requires the engagement partner to determine that sufficient and appropriateresources to perform the engagement are assigned or made available to the engagement team in a timely

1SLAuS 220 (Revised), Quality Management for an Audit of Financial Statements

2SLAuS 230, Audit Documentation

3SLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements

4SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement

5SLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks

6SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph A1

7SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 25

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 5A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

manner. In a group audit, such resources may include component auditors. Therefore, this SLAuS requires the group auditor to determine the nature, timing and extent of involvement of component auditors.

7.The group auditor may involve component auditors to provide information, or to perform audit work, tofulfill the requirements of this SLAuS. Component auditors may have greater experience with, and a morein-depth knowledge of, the components and their environments (including local laws and regulations,business practices, language, and culture) than the group auditor. Accordingly, component auditors canbe, and often are, involved in all phases of the group audit. (Ref: Para. A10–A11)

8.Audit risk is a function of the risks of material misstatement and detection risk.8 Detection risk in a groupaudit includes the risk that a component auditor may not detect a misstatement in the financial informationof a component that could cause a material misstatement of the group financial statements, and that thegroup auditor may not detect this misstatement. Accordingly, this SLAuS requires sufficient andappropriate involvement by the group engagement partner or group auditor, as applicable, in the work ofcomponent auditors and emphasizes the importance of two-way communication between the group auditorand component auditors. In addition, this SLAuS explains the matters that the group auditor takes intoaccount when determining the nature, timing and extent of the direction and supervision of componentauditors and the review of their work. (Ref: Para. A12–A13)

Professional Skepticism

9.In accordance with SLAuS 200,9 the engagement team is required to plan and perform the group auditwith professional skepticism and to exercise professional judgment. The appropriate exercise ofprofessional skepticism may be demonstrated through the actions and communications of the engagementteam, including emphasizing the importance of each engagement team member exercising professionalskepticism throughout the group audit. Such actions and communications may include specific steps tomitigate impediments that may impair the appropriate exercise of professional skepticism. (Ref: Para.A14–A18)

Scalability

10. This SLAuS is intended for all group audits, regardless of size or complexity. However, the requirementsof this SLAuS are intended to be applied in the context of the nature and circumstances of each groupaudit. For example, when a group audit is carried out entirely by the group auditor, some requirements inthis SLAuS are not relevant because they are conditional on the involvement of component auditors. Thismay be the case when the group auditor is able to perform audit procedures centrally or is able to performprocedures at the components without involving component auditors. The guidance in paragraphs A119and A120 also may be helpful in applying this SLAuS in these circumstances.

Responsibilities of the Group Engagement Partner and Group Auditor

11. The group engagement partner remains ultimately responsible, and therefore accountable, for compliancewith the requirements of this SLAuS. The term “the group engagement partner shall take responsibility

8SLAuS 200, Overall Objectives of the Independent Auditor and the Conduct of an Audit in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards, paragraph A349SLAuS 200, paragraphs 15‒16

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

for…” or “the group auditor shall take responsibility for…” is used for those requirements when the group engagement partner or group auditor, respectively, is permitted to assign the design or performance of procedures, tasks or actions to other appropriately skilled or suitably experienced members of the engagement team, including component auditors. For other requirements, this SLAuS expressly intends that the requirement or responsibility be fulfilled by the group engagement partner or group auditor, as applicable, and the group engagement partner or group auditor may obtain information from the firm or other members of the engagement team. (Ref: Para. A29)

Effective Date

12. This SLAuS is effective for audits of group financial statements for periods beginning on or afterDecember 15, 2024.

Objectives

13. The objectives of the auditor are to:

(a) With respect to the acceptance and continuance of the group audit engagement, determine whethersufficient appropriate audit evidence can reasonably be expected to be obtained to provide a basis forforming an opinion on the group financial statements;

(b) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, whether dueto fraud or error, and plan and perform further audit procedures to appropriately respond to thoseassessed risks;

(c) Be sufficiently and appropriately involved in the work of component auditors throughout the groupaudit, including communicating clearly about the scope and timing of their work, and evaluating theresults of that work; and

(d) Evaluate whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained from the audit proceduresperformed, including with respect to the work performed by component auditors, as a basis forforming an opinion on the group financial statements.

Definitions

14. For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:

(e) Aggregation risk – The probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatementsexceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole. (Ref: Para. A19)

(b) Component – An entity, business unit, function or business activity, or some combination thereof,determined by the group auditor for purposes of planning and performing audit procedures in a groupaudit. (Ref: Para. A20)

(c) Component auditor – An auditor who performs audit work related to a component for purposes of thegroup audit. A component auditor is a part of the engagement team10 for a group audit. (Ref: Para.A21–A23)

(d) Component management – Management responsible for a component. (Ref: Para. A24)

(e) Component performance materiality – An amount set by the group auditor to reduce aggregation riskto an appropriately low level for purposes of planning and performing audit procedures in relation toa component.

10SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 12(d)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 7A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

(f)Group – A reporting entity for which group financial statements are prepared.

(g) Group audit – The audit of group financial statements.

(h) Group auditor – The group engagement partner and members of the engagement team other thancomponent auditors. The group auditor is responsible for:

(i)Establishing the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan;

(ii)Directing and supervising component auditors and reviewing their work;(iii)Evaluating the conclusions drawn from the audit evidence obtained as the basis for formingan opinion on the group financial statements.(i)Group audit opinion – The audit opinion on the group financial statements.

(j)Group engagement partner – The engagement partner11 who is responsible for the group audit. (Ref:Para. A25)

(k) Group financial statements – Financial statements that include the financial information of more thanone entity or business unit through a consolidation process. For purposes of this SLAuS, aconsolidation process includes: (Ref: Para. A26–A28)

(i)Consolidation, proportionate consolidation, or an equity method of accounting;

(ii)The presentation in combined financial statements of the financial information of entities orbusiness units that have no parent but are under common control or common management; or

(iii)The aggregation of the financial information of entities or business units such as branches ordivisions.

(l)Group management – Management responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements.

(m) Group performance materiality – Performance materiality12 in relation to the group financialstatements as a whole, as determined by the group auditor.

15. Reference in this SLAuS to “the applicable financial reporting framework” means the financial reportingframework that applies to the group financial statements.

Requirements

Leadership Responsibilities for Managing and Achieving Quality on a Group Audit

16. In applying SLAuS 220 (Revised),13 the group engagement partner is required to take overallresponsibility for managing and achieving quality on the group audit engagement. In doing so, the groupengagement partner shall: (Ref: Para. A29–A30)

(a) Take responsibility for creating an environment for the group audit engagement that emphasizes theexpected behavior of engagement team members. (Ref: Para. A31)

(b) Be sufficiently and appropriately involved throughout the group audit engagement, including in thework of component auditors, such that the group engagement partner has the basis for determining

11SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 12(a)

12SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit, paragraphs 9 and 11

13SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 13

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

whether the significant judgments made, and the conclusions reached, are appropriate given the nature and circumstances of the group audit engagement.

Acceptance and Continuance

17. Before accepting or continuing the group audit engagement, the group engagement partner shall determinewhether sufficient appropriate audit evidence can reasonably be expected to be obtained to provide a basisfor forming an opinion on the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A32–A35)

18. If, after the acceptance or continuance of the group audit engagement, the group engagement partnerconcludes that sufficient appropriate audit evidence cannot be obtained, the group engagement partnershall consider the possible effects on the group audit. (Ref: Para. A36)

Terms of the Engagement

19. In applying SLAuS 210,14 the group auditor shall obtain the agreement of group management that itacknowledges and understands its responsibility to provide the engagement team with: (Ref: Para. A37)

(a) Access to all information of which group management is aware that is relevant to the preparation of the

group financial statements such as records, documentation and other matters;

(b) Additional information that the engagement team may request from group management or component

management for the purpose of the group audit; and

(c) Unrestricted access to persons within the group from whom the engagement team determines itnecessary to obtain audit evidence.

Restrictions on Access to Information or People Outside the Control of Group Management

20. If the group engagement partner concludes that group management cannot provide the engagement teamwith access to information or unrestricted access to persons within the group due to restrictions that areoutside the control of group management, the group engagement partner shall consider the possible effectson the group audit. (Ref: Para. A38–A46)

Restrictions on Access to Information or People Imposed by Group Management

21. If the group engagement partner concludes that: (Ref: Para. A43–A46)

(a) It will not be possible for the group auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence due torestrictions imposed by group management; and

(b) The possible effect of this limitation will result in a disclaimer of opinion on the group financialstatements,

the group engagement partner shall either:

(i)In the case of an initial engagement, not accept the engagement, or, in the case of a recurringengagement, withdraw from the engagement, when withdrawal is possible under applicablelaw or regulation; or

(ii)When law or regulation prohibit an auditor from declining an engagement or when withdrawalfrom an engagement is not otherwise possible, having performed the audit of the group

14SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements, paragraphs 6(b) and 8(b)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 9A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

financial statements to the extent possible, disclaim an opinion on the group financial statements.

Overall Group Audit Strategy and Group Audit Plan

22. In applying SLAuS 300,15the group auditor shall establish, and update as necessary, an overall group auditstrategy and group audit plan. In doing so, the group auditor shall determine: (Ref: Para. A47–A50)

(a) The components at which audit work will be performed; and (Ref: Para. A51)

(b) The resources needed to perform the group audit engagement, including the nature, timing andextent to which

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

23. In establishing the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan, the group engagement partner shallevaluate whether the group auditor will be able to be sufficiently and appropriately involved in the workof the component auditor. (Ref: Para. A57)

24. As part of the evaluation in paragraph 23, the group auditor shall request the component auditor to confirmthat the component auditor will cooperate with the group auditor, including whether the component auditorwill perform the work requested by the group auditor. (Ref: Para. A58)

Relevant Ethical Requirements, Including Those Related to Independence

25. In applying SLAuS 220 (Revised),16the group engagement partner shall take responsibility for: (Ref: Para.A59–A60, A87)

(a) Component auditors having been made aware of relevant ethical requirements that are applicablegiven the nature and circumstances of the group audit engagement; and

(b) Confirming whether the component auditors understand and will comply with the relevant ethicalrequirements, including those related to independence, that apply to the group audit engagement.

Engagement Resources

26. In applying SLAuS 220 (Revised),17 the group engagement partner shall: (Ref: Para. A61–A68)

(a) Determine that component auditors have the appropriate competence and capabilities, includingsufficient time, to perform the assigned audit procedures at the component; and

(b) If information about the results of the monitoring and remediation process or external inspectionsrelated to the component auditor has been provided by the group auditor’s firm or has otherwise beenmade available to the group engagement partner, determine the relevance of such information to thegroup auditor’s determination in paragraph 26(a).

15SLAuS 300, paragraphs 7–10A

16SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 17

17SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraphs 25–26

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

27. The group auditor shall obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to the work to be performedat the component without involving the component auditor if:

(a) The component auditor does not comply with the relevant ethical requirements, including thoserelated to independence, that apply to the group audit engagement;18 or (Ref: Para. A69–A70)

(b) The group engagement partner has serious concerns about the matters in paragraphs 23–26. (Ref:Para. A71)

Engagement Performance

28. In applying SLAuS 220 (Revised),19 the group engagement partner shall take responsibility for the nature,timing and extent of direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work, takinginto account: (Ref: Para. A72–A77)

(a) Areas of higher assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, orsignificant risks identified in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019); and

(b) Areas in the audit of the group financial statements that involve significant judgment.

Communications with Component Auditors

29. The group auditor shall communicate with component auditors about their respective responsibilities andthe group auditor’s expectations, including an expectation that communications between the group auditorand component auditors take place at appropriate times throughout the group audit. (Ref: Para. A78–A87)

Understanding the Group and Its Environment, the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework and the Group’s System of Internal Control

30. In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),20 the group auditor shall take responsibility for obtaining anunderstanding of the following: (Ref: Para. A88–A92)

(a) The group and its environment, including: (Ref: Para. A93–A95)

(i)The group’s organizational structure and its business model, including:

a.The locations in which the group has its operations or activities;

b.The nature of the group’s operations or activities and the extent to which they are similaracross the group; and

c.The extent to which the group’s business model integrates the use of informationtechnology (IT);

(ii)Regulatory factors impacting the entities and business units in the group; and

(iii)The measures used internally and externally to assess the financial performance of the entities orbusiness units;

(b) The applicable financial reporting framework and the consistency of accounting policies and practices

across the group; and

18SLAuS 200, paragraph 14

19SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 29

20SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraphs 19–27

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 11A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

(c) The group’s system of internal control, including:

(i)The nature and extent of commonality of controls; (Ref: Para. A96–A99, A102)

(ii)Whether, and if so, how, the group centralizes activities relevant to financial reporting; (Ref:Para. A100–A102)

(iii)The consolidation process used by the group, including sub-consolidations, if any, andconsolidation adjustments; and

(iv)How group management communicates significant matters that support the preparation of thegroup financial statements and related financial reporting responsibilities in the informationsystem and other components of the group’s system of internal control to management ofentities or business units. (Ref: Para. A103–A105)

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

31. The group auditor shall communicate to component auditors on a timely basis: (Ref: Para. A106)

(a) Matters that the group auditor determines to be relevant to the component auditor’s design orperformance of risk assessment procedures for purposes of the group audit;

(b) In applying SLAuS 550,21 related party relationships or transactions identified by group management,and any other related parties of which the group auditor is aware, that are relevant to the work of thecomponent auditor; and (Ref: Para. A107)

(c) In applying SLAuS 570 (Revised),22 events or conditions identified by group management or thegroup auditor that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as a going concernthat are relevant to the work of the component auditor.

Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement

33. In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),23based on the understanding obtained in paragraph 30, the groupauditor shall take responsibility for the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatementof the group financial statements, including with respect to the consolidation process. (Ref: Para. A108–A113)

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

34. In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),24 the group auditor shall evaluate whether the audit evidenceobtained from the risk assessment procedures performed by the group auditor and component auditorsprovides an appropriate basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatementof the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A114–A115)

21SLAuS 550, Related Parties, paragraph 17

22SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern

23SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraphs 28‒3424SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph 35

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Materiality

35. In applying SLAuS 32025 and SLAuS 450,26 when classes of transactions, account balances or disclosuresin the group financial statements are disaggregated across components, for purposes of planning and performingaudit procedures, the group auditor shall determine:

(a) Component performance materiality. To address aggregation risk, such amount shall be lower thangroup performance materiality. (Ref: Para. A116–A120)

(b) The threshold above which misstatements identified in the component financial information are to becommunicated to the group auditor. Such threshold shall not exceed the amount regarded as clearlytrivial to the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A121)

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

36. The group auditor shall communicate to the component auditor the amounts determined in accordancewith paragraph 35. (Ref: Para: A122–A123)

Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement

37. In applying SLAuS 330,27 the group auditor shall take responsibility for the nature, timing and extent offurther audit procedures to be performed, including determining the components at which to performfurther audit procedures and the nature, timing and extent of the work to be performed at thosecomponents. (Ref: Para. A124–A139)

Consolidation Process

38. The group auditor shall take responsibility for designing and performing further audit procedures torespond to the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements arising from theconsolidation process. This shall include: (Ref: Para. A140)

(a) Evaluating whether all entities and business units have been included in the group financialstatements as required by the applicable financial reporting framework and, if applicable, fordesigning and performing further audit procedures on sub-consolidations;

(b) Evaluating the appropriateness, completeness and accuracy of consolidation adjustments andreclassifications; (Ref: Para. A141)

(c) Evaluating whether management’s judgments made in the consolidation process give rise toindicators of possible management bias; and

(d) Responding to assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud arising from the consolidationprocess.

39. If the financial information of an entity or business unit has not been prepared in accordance with the sameaccounting policies applied to the group financial statements, the group auditor shall evaluate whether thefinancial information has been appropriately adjusted for purposes of preparing and presenting the groupfinancial statements.

25SLAuS 320, paragraph 11

26SLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified During the Audit, paragraph 5

27SLAuS 330, paragraphs 6‒7

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 13A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

40. If the group financial statements include the financial information of an entity or business unit with afinancial reporting period-end that differs from that of the group, the group auditor shall take responsibilityfor evaluating whether appropriate adjustments have been made to that financial information inaccordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

41. When the group auditor involves component auditors in the design or performance of further auditprocedures, the group auditor shall communicate with the component auditor about matters that the groupauditor or component auditor determine to be relevant to the design of responses to the assessed risks ofmaterial misstatement of the group financial statements.

42. For areas of higher assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, or significantrisks identified in accordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), on which a component auditor isdetermining the further audit procedures to be performed, the group auditor shall evaluate theappropriateness of the design and performance of those further audit procedures. (Ref: Para. A142)

43. When component auditors perform further audit procedures on the consolidation process, including onsub-consolidations, the group auditor shall determine the nature and extent of direction and supervisionof component auditors and the review of their work. (Ref: Para. A143)

44. The group auditor shall determine whether the financial information identified in the component auditor’scommunication (see paragraph 45(a)) is the financial information that is incorporated in the groupfinancial statements.

Evaluating the Component Auditor’s Communications and the Adequacy of Their Work

45. The group auditor shall request the component auditor to communicate matters relevant to the groupauditor’s conclusion with regard to the group audit. Such communication shall include: (Ref: Para. A144)

(a) Identification of the financial information on which the component auditor has been requested toperform audit procedures;

(b) Whether the component auditor has performed the work requested by the group auditor;

(c) Whether the component auditor has complied with the relevant ethical requirements, including thoserelated to independence, that apply to the group audit engagement;

(d) Information about instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations;

(e) Corrected and uncorrected misstatements of the component financial information identified by thecomponent auditor and that are above the threshold communicated by the group auditor in accordancewith paragraph 36; (Ref: Para. A145)

(f)Indicators of possible management bias;

(g) Description of any deficiencies in the system of internal control identified in connection with theaudit procedures performed;

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

(h) Fraud or suspected fraud involving component management, employees who have significant rolesin the group’s system of internal control at the component or others where the fraud resulted in amaterial misstatement of the component financial information;

(i)Other significant matters that the component auditor communicated or expects to communicate tocomponent management or those charged with governance of the component;

(j)Any other matters that may be relevant to the group audit, or that the component auditor determinesare appropriate to draw to the attention of the group auditor, including exceptions noted in the writtenrepresentations that the component auditor requested from component management; and

(k) The component auditor’s overall findings or conclusions. (Ref: Para. A146)

46. The group auditor shall:

(a) Discuss significant matters arising from communications with the component auditor, including thosein accordance with paragraph 45, with the component auditor, component management or groupmanagement, as appropriate; and

(b) Evaluate whether communications with the component auditor are adequate for the group auditor’spurposes. If such communications are not adequate for the group auditor’s purposes, the group auditorshall consider the implications for the group audit. (Ref: Para. A147)

47. The group auditor shall determine whether, and the extent to which, it is necessary to review additionalcomponent auditor audit documentation. In making this determination, the group auditor shall consider:(Ref: Para. A148–A149)

(a)The nature, timing and extent of the work performed by the component auditor;

(b)The competence and capabilities of the component auditor as determined in accordance withparagraph 26(a); and

(c)The direction and supervision of the component auditor and review of their work.

48. If the group auditor concludes that the work of the component auditor is not adequate for the groupauditor’s purposes, the group auditor shall determine what additional audit procedures are to be performed,and whether they are to be performed by a component auditor or by the group auditor.

Subsequent Events

49. In applying SLAuS 560,28 the group auditor shall take responsibility for performing procedures, including,as appropriate, requesting component auditors to perform procedures, designed to identify events that mayrequire adjustment of, or disclosure in, the group financial statements. (Ref: Para. A150)

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

50. The group auditor shall request the component auditors to notify the group auditor if they become awareof subsequent events that may require adjustment of, or disclosure in, the group financial statements. (Ref:Para. A150)

28SLAuS 560, Subsequent Events, paragraphs 6–7

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 15A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence Obtained

51. In applying SLAuS 330,29 the group auditor shall evaluate whether sufficient appropriate audit evidencehas been obtained from the audit procedures performed, including from the work performed by componentauditors, on which to base the group audit opinion. (Ref: Para. A151–A155)

52. The group engagement partner shall evaluate the effect on the group audit opinion of any uncorrectedmisstatements (whether identified by the group auditor or communicated by component auditors) and anyinstances when there has been an inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. (Ref: Para.A156)

Auditor’s Report

53. The auditor’s report on the group financial statements shall not refer to a component auditor, unlessrequired by law or regulation to include such reference. If such reference is required by law or regulation,the auditor’s report shall indicate that the reference does not diminish the group engagement partner’s orthe group engagement partner’s firm’s responsibility for the group audit opinion. (Ref: Para. A157–A158)

Communication with Group Management and Those Charged with Governance of the Group

Communication with Group Management

54. The group auditor shall communicate with group management an overview of the planned scope andtiming of the audit, including an overview of the work to be performed at components of the group. (Ref:Para. A159)

55. If fraud has been identified by the group auditor or brought to its attention by a component auditor (seeparagraph 45(h)), or information indicates that a fraud may exist, the group auditor shall communicatethis on a timely basis to the appropriate level of group management in order to inform those with primaryresponsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud of matters relevant to their responsibilities. (Ref:Para. A160)

56. A component auditor may be required by statute, regulation or other reasons to express an audit opinionon the financial statements of an entity or business unit that forms part of the group. In that case, the groupauditor shall request group management to inform management of the entity or business unit of any matterof which the group auditor becomes aware that may be significant to the financial statements of the entityor business unit, but of which management of the entity or business unit may be unaware. If groupmanagement refuses to communicate the matter to management of the entity or business unit, the groupauditor shall discuss the matter with those charged with governance of the group. If the matter remainsunresolved, the group auditor, subject to legal and professional confidentiality considerations, shallconsider whether to advise the component auditor not to issue the auditor’s report on the financialstatements of the entity or business unit until the matter is resolved. (Ref: Para. A161–A162)

29SLAuS 330, paragraph 26

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Communication with Those Charged with Governance of the Group

57. The group auditor shall communicate the following matters with those charged with governance of thegroup, in addition to those required by SLAuS 260 (Revised)30 and other SLAuSs: (Ref: Para. A163)

(a)An overview of the work to be performed at the components of the group and the nature of thegroup auditor’s planned involvement in the work to be performed by component auditors. (Ref:Para. A164)

(b)Instances when the group auditor’s review of the work of a component auditor gave rise to aconcern about the quality of that component auditor’s work, and how the group auditor addressedthe concern.

(c)Any limitations on the scope of the group audit, for example, significant matters related torestrictions on access to people or information.

(d)Fraud or suspected fraud involving group management, component management, employees whohave significant roles in the group’s system of internal control or others when the fraud resulted ina material misstatement of the group financial statements.

Communication of Identified Deficiencies in Internal Control

58. In applying SLAuS 265,31 the group auditor shall determine whether any identified deficiencies in thegroup’s system of internal control are required to be communicated to those charged with governance ofthe group or group management. In making this determination, the group auditor shall considerdeficiencies in internal control that have been identified by component auditors and communicated to thegroup auditor in accordance with paragraph 45(g). (Ref: Para. A165)

Documentation

59. In accordance with SLAuS 230,32 the audit documentation for a group audit engagement needs to besufficient to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the audit, to understandthe nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed, the evidence obtained, and the conclusionsreached with respect to significant matters arising during the group audit. In applying SLAuS 230,33 thegroup auditor shall include in the audit documentation: (Ref: Para. A166–A169, A179–A182)

(a) Significant matters related to restrictions on access to people or information within the group thatwere considered before deciding to accept or continue the engagement, or that arose subsequent toacceptance or continuance, and how such matters were addressed.

(b) The basis for the group auditor’s determination of components for purposes of planning andperforming the group audit. (Ref: Para. A170)

(c) The basis for the determination of component performance materiality, and the threshold forcommunicating misstatements in the component financial information to the group auditor.

30SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance

31SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management

32SLAuS 230, paragraph 8

33SLAuS 230, paragraphs 1–3, 9–11, A6–A7 and Appendix

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 17A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

(d) The basis for the group auditor’s determination that component auditors have the appropriatecompetence and capabilities, including sufficient time, to perform the assigned audit procedures atthe components. (Ref: Para. A171)

(e) Key elements of the understanding of the group’s system of internal control in accordance withparagraph 30(c);

(f)The nature, timing and extent of the group auditor’s direction and supervision of component auditorsand the review of their work, including, as applicable, the group auditor’s review of additionalcomponent auditor audit documentation in accordance with paragraph 47. (Ref: Para. A172–A178)

(g) Matters related to communications with component auditors, including:

(i)Matters, if any, related to fraud, related parties or going concern communicated in accordancewith paragraph 32.

(ii) Matters relevant to the group auditor’s conclusion with regard to the group audit, in accordancewith paragraph 45, including how the group auditor has addressed significant matters discussedwith component auditors, component management or group management.

(h) The group auditor’s evaluation of, and response to, findings or conclusions of the component auditorsabout matters that could have a material effect on the group financial statements.

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Scope of this SLAuS (Ref: Para. 1–2)

A1. This SLAuS also deals with the special considerations for the group engagement partner or group auditor, as applicable, in applying the requirements and guidance in SLAuS 220 (Revised), including for the direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work.

A2. SLSQM 134 addresses the engagements for which an engagement quality review is required to be performed. SLSQM 235 deals with the appointment and eligibility of the engagement quality reviewer and the engagement quality reviewer’s responsibilities relating to performing and documenting an engagement quality review, including for a group audit.

A3. An entity or business unit of a group may also prepare its own group financial statements that incorporate the financial information of those entities or business units it encompasses (that is, a sub-group). This SLAuS applies to an audit of the group financial statements of such sub-groups performed for statutory, regulatory or other reasons.

A4. A single legal entity may be organized with more than one business unit, for example, a company with operations in multiple locations, such as a bank with multiple branches. When those business units have characteristics such as separate locations, separate management, or separate information systems (including a separate general ledger) and the financial information is aggregated in preparing the single

34Sri Lanka Standard on Quality Management (SLSQM) 1, Quality Management for Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements

35SLSQM 2, Engagement Quality Reviews

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

legal entity’s financial statements, such financial statements meet the definition of group financial statements because they include the financial information of more than one entity or business unit through a consolidation process.

A5. In some cases, a single legal entity may configure its information system to capture financial information for more than one product or service line for legal or regulatory reporting or other management purposes. In these circumstances, the entity’s financial statements are not group financial statements because there is no aggregation of the financial information of more than one entity or business unit through a consolidation process. Further, capturing separate information (e.g., in a sub-ledger) for legal or regulatory reporting or other management purposes does not create separate entities or business units (e.g., divisions) for purposes of this SLAuS.

Groups and Components (Ref: Para. 4–5)

A6. The group’s information system, including its financial reporting process, may or may not be aligned with the group’s organizational structure. For example, a group may be organized according to its legal structure, but its information system may be organized by function, process, product or service (or by groups of products or services), or geographic locations for management or reporting purposes.

A7. Based on the understanding of the group’s organizational structure and information system, the group auditor may determine that the financial information of certain entities or business units may be considered together for purposes of planning and performing audit procedures. For example, a group may have three legal entities with similar business characteristics, operating in the same geographical location, under the same management, and using a common system of internal control, including the information system. In these circumstances, the group auditor may decide to treat these three legal entities as one component.

A8. A group may also centralize activities or processes that are applicable to more than one entity or business unit within the group, for example through the use of a shared service center. When such centralizedactivities are relevant to the group’s financial reporting process, the group auditor may determine that the shared service center is a component.

A9. Another consideration that may be relevant to the group auditor’s determination of components is how management has determined operating segments in accordance with the disclosure requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework.36

Involvement of Component Auditors (Ref: Para. 7–8)

A10. Component auditors may perform an audit of the financial statements of a component, whether for statutory, regulatory or other reasons, particularly when a component is a legal entity. When a component auditor is also performing or has completed an audit of the component financial statements, the group auditor may be able to use audit work performed on the component financial statements, provided the group auditor is satisfied that such work is appropriate for purposes of the group audit. In addition, component auditors may adapt the work performed on the audit of the component financial statements to also meet the needs of the group auditor. In any event, the requirements of this SLAuS apply, including those relating to the direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work.

36See, for example, Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standard (SLFRS) 8, Operating Segments

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 19A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

A11. In accordance with SLAuS 220 (Revised),37 the engagement partner is required to determine that the approach to direction, supervision and review is responsive to the nature and circumstances of the audit engagement. Paragraph A76 provides examples of different ways in which the group engagement partner may take responsibility for directing and supervising component auditors and reviewing their work, and may be helpful in circumstances when the group auditor plans to use the audit work from an audit of component financial statements that has already been completed.

A12. As explained in SLAuS 200,38 detection risk relates to the nature, timing and extent of the auditor’s procedures that are determined by the auditor to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level. Detection risk is a function not only of the effectiveness of an audit procedure but also the application of that procedure by the auditor. Therefore, detection risk is influenced by matters such as adequate planning, the assignment of appropriate resources to the engagement, the exercise of professional skepticism, and the supervision and review of the audit work performed.

A13. Detection risk is a broader concept than aggregation risk as described in paragraphs 14(a) and A19. In a group audit, there may be a higher probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements may exceed materiality for the group financial statements as a whole because audit procedures may be performed separately on the financial information of components across the group. Accordingly, component performance materiality is set by the group auditor to reduce aggregation risk to an appropriately low level.

Professional Skepticism (Ref: Para. 9)

A14. SLAuS 220 (Revised)39provides examples of the impediments to the exercise of professional skepticism at the engagement level, including unconscious auditor biases that may impede the exercise of professional skepticism when designing and performing audit procedures and evaluating audit evidence. SLAuS 220 (Revised) also provides possible actions that the engagement team may take to mitigate impediments to the exercise of professional skepticism at the engagement level.

A15. Requirements and relevant application material in SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),40 SLAuS 540 (Revised)41 and other SLAuSs address the exercise of professional skepticism, and include examples of how documentation may help provide evidence of the auditor’s exercise of professional skepticism.

A16. All members of the engagement team are required to exercise professional skepticism throughout the group audit. The group auditor’s direction and supervision of engagement team members, including component auditors, and the review of their work, may inform the group auditor about whether the engagement team has appropriately exercised professional skepticism.

A17. The exercise of professional skepticism in a group audit may be affected by matters such as the following:

37SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 30(b)

38SLAuS 200, paragraph A45

39SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraphs A34‒A36

40SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph A238

41SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures, paragraph A11

20A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xComponent auditors in different locations may be subject to varying cultural influences, which mayaffect the nature of the biases to which they are subject.

xThe complex structure of some groups may introduce factors that give rise to increasedsusceptibility to risks of material misstatement. In addition, an overly complex organizationalstructure may be a fraud risk factor in accordance with SLAuS 24042 and therefore may requireadditional time or expertise to understand the business purpose and activities of certain entities orbusiness units.

xThe nature and extent of intra-group transactions (e.g., transactions that involve multiple entitiesand business units within the group or multiple related parties), cash flows or transfer pricingagreements may give rise to additional complexities. In some cases, such matters may also giverise to fraud risk factors.

xWhen the group audit is subject to tight reporting deadlines imposed by group management, thismay put pressure on engagement team members when completing the work assigned. In thesecircumstances, the engagement team may need to take additional time to appropriately questionmanagement’s assertions, make appropriate judgments, or appropriately review the audit workperformed.

A18. The exercise of professional skepticism by the group auditor includes remaining alert for inconsistent information from component auditors, component management and group management about matters that may be significant to the group financial statements.

Definitions

Aggregation Risk (Ref: Para. 14(a))

A19. Aggregation risk exists in all audits of financial statements, but is particularly important to understand and address in a group audit because there is a greater likelihood that audit procedures will be performed on classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures that are disaggregated across components. Generally, aggregation risk increases as the number of components increases at which audit procedures are performed separately, whether by component auditors or other members of the engagement team.

Component (Ref: Para. 14(b))

A20. The group auditor uses professional judgment in determining components at which audit work will be performed. Paragraph A7 explains that the financial information of certain entities or business units may be considered together for purposes of planning and performing audit procedures. However, the group auditor’s responsibility for the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements encompasses all of the entities and business units whose financial information is included in the group financial statements.

Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 14(c))

A21. References in this SLAuS to the engagement team include the group auditor and component auditors. Component auditors may be from a network firm, a firm that is not a network firm, or the group auditor’s firm (e.g., another office within the group auditor’s firm).

42SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements, Appendix 1

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 21A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

A22. In some circumstances, the group auditor may perform centralized testing on classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures, or may perform audit procedures related to a component. In these circumstances, the group auditor is not considered a component auditor.

A23. Paragraph 24 requires the group auditor to request the component auditor to confirm that the component auditor will cooperate with the group auditor, including whether the component auditor will perform the work requested by the group auditor. Paragraph A58 provides guidance for circumstances in which the component auditor is unable to provide such a confirmation.

Component Management (Ref: Para. 14(d))

A24. Component management refers to management responsible for the financial information or other activity (e.g., processing of transactions at a shared service center) at an entity or business unit that is part of the group. When the group auditor considers the financial information of certain entities or business units together as a component or determines that a shared service center is a component (see paragraphs A7‒A8), component management refers to the management that is responsible for the financial information or transaction processing that is subject to the audit procedures being performed in relation to that component. In some circumstances, there may not be separate component management and group management may be directly responsible for the financial information or other activities of the component.

Group Engagement Partner (Ref: Para. 14(j))

A25. When joint auditors conduct a group audit, the joint engagement partners and their engagement teams collectively constitute the “group engagement partner” and “engagement team” for the purposes of the SLAuSs. This SLAuS does not, however, deal with the relationship between joint auditors or the work that one joint auditor performs in relation to the work of the other joint auditor for purposes of the group audit.

Group Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 2, 14(k))

A26. The requirements for the preparation and presentation of the group financial statements may be specified in the applicable financial reporting framework, which may therefore affect the determination of the financial information of entities or business units to be included in the group financial statements. For example, some frameworks require the preparation of consolidated financial statements when an entity (a parent entity) controls one or more other entities (e.g., subsidiaries) through majority ownership interest or other means. In some cases, the applicable financial reporting framework includes separate requirements for, or may otherwise permit, the presentation of combined financial statements. Examples of circumstances in which the presentation of combined financial statements may be permitted include entities that have no parent but are under common control or entities under common management.

A27. The term “consolidation process” as used in this SLAuS is not intended to have the same meaning as “consolidation” or “consolidated financial statements” as defined or described in financial reporting frameworks. Rather, the term “consolidation process” refers more broadly to the process used to prepare group financial statements.

22A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A28. The detailed aspects of the consolidation process vary from one group to another, depending on the group’s structure and information system, including the financial reporting process. However, a consolidation process involves considerations such as the elimination of intra-group transactions and balances and, when applicable, implications of different reporting periods for entities or business units included in the group financial statements.

Leadership Responsibilities for Managing and Achieving Quality on a Group Audit (Ref: Para. 11, 16)

A29. It may not be possible or practical for the group engagement partner to solely deal with all requirements in SLAuS 220 (Revised), particularly when the engagement team includes a large number of component auditors located in multiple locations. In managing quality at the engagement level, SLAuS 220 (Revised)43 permits the engagement partner to assign the design or performance of procedures, tasks or actions to other members of the engagement team to assist the engagement partner. Accordingly, the group engagement partner may assign procedures, tasks or actions to other members of the engagement team and these members may assign procedures, tasks or actions further. In such circumstances, SLAuS 220 (Revised) requires that the engagement partner shall continue to take overall responsibility for managing and achieving quality on the audit engagement.

A30. Policies or procedures established by the firm, or that are common network requirements or network services,44 may support the group engagement partner by facilitating communication between the group auditor and component auditors and supporting the group auditor’s direction and supervision of those component auditors and the review of their work.

A31. SLAuS 220 (Revised)45 explains that a culture that demonstrates a commitment to quality is shaped and reinforced by the engagement team members as they demonstrate expected behaviors when performing the engagement. In addressing the requirement in paragraph 16(a), the group engagement partner may communicate directly to other members of the engagement team (including component auditors) and reinforce this communication through personal conduct and actions (e.g., leading by example).

Acceptance and Continuance

Determining Whether Sufficient and Appropriate Audit Evidence Can Reasonably Be Expected to Be Obtained (Ref: Para. 17–18)

A32. In determining whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence can reasonably be expected to be obtained, the group engagement partner may obtain an understanding of matters such as:

xThe group structure, including both the legal and organizational structure.

xActivities that are significant to the group, including the industry and regulatory, economic andpolitical environments in which those activities take place.

xThe use of service organizations.

xThe use of shared service centers.

43SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 15

44SLSQM 1, paragraphs 48–52

45SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph A28

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 23A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xThe consolidation process.

xWhether the group auditor:

oWill have unrestricted access to those charged with governance of the group, groupmanagement, those charged with governance of the component, component management andcomponent information, including of those components that are accounted for by the equitymethod; and

oWill be able to perform necessary work on the financial information of the components whenapplicable.

xWhether sufficient and appropriate resources are assigned or will be made available.

A33. In the case of an initial group audit engagement, the group auditor’s understanding of the matters in paragraph A32 may be obtained from:

xInformation provided by group management;xCommunication with group management;xCommunication with those charged with governance of the group; andxWhen applicable, communication with component management or the predecessor auditor.

A34. For a recurring engagement, the ability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence may be affected by significant changes in, for example:

xThe group structure (e.g., acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures, reorganizations, or changes in howthe group financial reporting system is organized).

xComponents’ activities that are significant to the group.

xThe composition of those charged with governance of the group, group management, or keymanagement of components for which audit procedures are expected to be performed.

xThe group auditor’s understanding of the integrity and competence of group or componentmanagement.

xThe applicable financial reporting framework.

A35. There may be additional complexities with obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence in a group audit when components are located in jurisdictions other than the group auditor’s jurisdiction because of cultural and language differences, and different laws or regulations. For example, law or regulation may restrict the component auditor from providing documentation outside of its jurisdiction, or war, civil unrest or outbreaks of disease may restrict the group auditor’s access to relevant component auditor audit documentation. Paragraph A180 includes possible ways to address these situations.

24A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A36. Restrictions may be imposed after the group engagement partner’s acceptance of the group audit engagement that may affect the engagement team’s ability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Such restrictions may include those affecting:

xThe group auditor’s access to component information, management or those charged withgovernance of components, or the component auditors (including relevant audit documentationsought by the group auditor) (see paragraphs 20 and 21); or

xThe work to be performed on the financial information of components.

Paragraphs A45–A46 explain the possible effect of such restrictions on the auditor’s report on the group financial statements.

Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements (Ref: Para. 19)

A37. SLAuS 21046 requires the auditor to agree the terms of the audit engagement with management or those charged with governance, as appropriate. The terms of engagement identify the applicable financial reporting framework. Additional matters that may be included in the terms of a group audit engagement include:

xCommunications between the group auditor and component auditors should be unrestricted to theextent possible under laws or regulations;

xImportant communications between component auditors and those charged with governance of thecomponent or component management, including communications on significant deficiencies ininternal control, should be communicated to the group auditor;

xCommunications between regulatory authorities and entities or business units related to financialreporting matters that may be relevant to the group audit should be communicated to the groupauditor; and

xThe group auditor should be permitted to perform work, or request a component auditor to performwork, at the component.

Restrictions on Access to Information or People (Ref: Para. 20–21)

A38. Restrictions on access to information or people do not eliminate the requirement for the group auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.

A39. Access to information or people can be restricted for many reasons, such as restrictions imposed by component management, laws or regulations or other conditions, for example, war, civil unrest or outbreaks of disease. Paragraph A180 describes how the group auditor may be able to overcome restrictions on access to component auditor audit documentation.

A40. In some circumstances, the group auditor may be able to overcome restrictions on access to information or people, for example:

xIf access to component management or those charged with governance of the component isrestricted, the group auditor may request group management or those charged with governance of

46SLAuS 210, paragraph 9 and 10(d)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 25A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

the group to assist with removing the restriction or otherwise request information directly from group management or those charged with governance of the group.

xIf the group has a non-controlling interest in an entity that is accounted for by the equity method,the group auditor may determine whether provisions exist (e.g., in the terms of joint ventureagreements, or the terms of other investment agreements) regarding access by the group to thefinancial information of the entity and request group management to exercise such rights.

xIf the group has a non-controlling interest in an entity that is accounted for by the equity methodand the group has representatives who are on the executive board or are members of those chargedwith governance of the non-controlled entity, the group auditor may inquire whether they canprovide financial and other information available to them in these roles.

A41. If the group has a non-controlling interest in an entity that is accounted for by the equity method and the group auditor’s access to information or people at the entity is restricted, the group auditor may be able to obtain information to be used as audit evidence regarding the entity’s financial information, for example:

xFinancial information that is available from group management, as group management also needsto obtain the non-controlled entity’s financial information in order to prepare the group financialstatements.

xPublicly available information, such as audited financial statements, public disclosure documents,or quoted prices of equity instruments in the non-controlled entity.

It is a matter of professional judgment, particularly in view of the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements and considering other sources of information that may corroborate or otherwise contribute to audit evidence obtained, whether the auditor can obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.47

A42. If the group has a non-controlling interest in an entity that is accounted for by the equity method and access to information or people at the entity is restricted, the group auditor may consider whether such restrictions are inconsistent with group management’s assertions regarding the appropriateness of the use of the equity method of accounting.

A43. When the group auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence due to restrictions onaccess to information or people, the group auditor may:

xCommunicate the restrictions to the group auditor’s firm to assist the group auditor in determiningan appropriate course of action. For example, the group auditor’s firm may communicate withgroup management about the restrictions and encourage group management to communicate withregulators. This may be useful when restrictions affect multiple audits in the jurisdiction or by thesame firm, for example, because of war, civil unrest or outbreaks of disease in a major economy.

xBe required by law or regulation to communicate with regulators, listing authorities, or others,about the restrictions.

47SLAuS 330, paragraph 7(b)

26A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A44. Restrictions on access may have other implications for the group audit. For example, if restrictions are imposed by group management, the group auditor may need to reconsider the reliability of group management’s responses to the group auditor’s inquiries and whether the restrictions call into question group management’s integrity.

Effect of Restrictions on Access to Information or People on the Auditor’s Report on Group Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 20–21)

A45. SLAuS 705 (Revised)48 contains requirements and guidance about how to address situations when the group auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence. Appendix 1 contains an example of an auditor’s report containing a qualified group audit opinion based on the group auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence in relation to a component that is accounted for by the equity method.

Law or Regulation Prohibit the Group Engagement Partner from Declining or Withdrawing from an Engagement (Ref: Para. 20–21)

A46. Law or regulation may prohibit the group engagement partner from declining or withdrawing from an engagement. For example, in some jurisdictions the auditor is appointed for a specified period of time and is prohibited from withdrawing before the end of that period. Also, in the public sector, the option of declining or withdrawing from an engagement may not be available to the auditor due to the nature of the mandate or public interest considerations. In these circumstances, the requirements in this SLAuS still apply to the group audit, and the effect of the group auditor’s inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence is addressed in SLAUS705 (Revised).

Overall Group Audit Strategy and Group Audit Plan

The Continual and Iterative Nature of Planning and Performing a Group Audit (Ref: Para. 22)

A47. As explained in SLAuS 300,49 planning is not a discrete phase of an audit, but rather a continual and iterative process that often begins shortly after (or in connection with) the completion of the previous audit and continues until the completion of the current audit engagement. For example, due to unexpected events, changes in conditions, or audit evidence obtained from risk assessment or further audit procedures, the group auditor may need to modify the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan, and the resulting planned nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures, based on the revised consideration of assessed risks. The group auditor may also modify the determination of the components at which to perform audit work as well as the nature, timing and extent of the component auditors’ involvement. SLAuS 30050requires the auditor to update and change the overall audit strategy and audit plan as necessary during the course of the audit.

Establishing the Overall Group Audit Strategy and Group Audit Plan (Ref: Para. 22)

A48. In an initial group audit engagement, the group auditor may have a preliminary understanding of the group and its environment, the applicable financial reporting framework and the entity’s system of

48SLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report

49SLAuS 300, paragraph A2

50SLAuS 300, paragraph 10

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 27A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

internal control based on information obtained from group management, those charged with governance of the group and, when applicable, communication with component management or the predecessor auditor. In a recurring group audit engagement, the group auditor’s preliminary understanding may be obtained through prior period audits. This preliminary understanding may assist the group auditor in developing initial expectations about the classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures that may be significant.

A49. The group auditor may also use information obtained during the engagement acceptance and continuance process in establishing the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan, for example, in relation to the resources needed to perform the group audit.

A50. The process of establishing the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan and initial expectations about the classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures that may be significant at the group financial statement level may assist the group auditor in developing a preliminary determination of matters such as:

xWhether to perform audit work centrally, at components or a combination thereof; and

xThe nature, timing and extent of audit work to be performed with respect to the financialinformation of components (e.g., design and perform risk assessment procedures, further auditprocedures, or a combination thereof).

Components at Which to Perform Audit Work (Ref: Para. 22(a))

A51. The determination of components at which to perform audit work is a matter of professional judgment. Matters that may influence the group auditor’s determination include, for example:

xThe nature of events or conditions that may give rise to risks of material misstatement at theassertion level of the group financial statements that are associated with a component, for example:oNewly formed or acquired entities or business units.oEntities or business units in which significant changes have taken place.oSignificant transactions with related parties.oSignificant transactions outside the normal course of business.oAbnormal fluctuations identified by analytical procedures performed at the group level, inaccordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019).51

xThe disaggregation of significant classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures in thegroup financial statements across components, considering the size and nature of assets, liabilitiesand transactions at the location or business unit relative to the group financial statements.

xWhether sufficient appropriate audit evidence is expected to be obtained for all significant classesof transactions, account balances and disclosures in the group financial statements from audit workplanned on the financial information of identified components.

51SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph 14(b)

28A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xThe nature and extent of misstatements or control deficiencies identified at a component in priorperiod audits.

xThe nature and extent of the commonality of controls across the group and whether, and if so, how,the group centralizes activities relevant to financial reporting.

Resources (Ref: Para. 22(b))

A52. Matters that influence the group auditor’s determination of the resources needed to perform the group audit and the nature, timing and extent to which component auditors are to be involved are a matter of professional judgment and may include, for example:

xThe understanding of the group, the components within the group at which audit work is to beperformed and whether to perform work centrally, at components or a combination thereof.

xThe knowledge and experience of the engagement team. For example, component auditors mayhave greater experience and a more in-depth knowledge than the group auditor of the localindustries in which components operate, local laws or regulations, business practices, language andculture. In addition, the involvement of auditor’s experts may be needed on complex matters.

xThe initial expectations about the potential risks of material misstatement.

xThe amount or location of resources to allocate to specific audit areas. For example, the extent towhich components are dispersed across multiple locations may impact the need to involvecomponent auditors in specific locations.

xAccess arrangements. For example, when the group auditor’s access to a component in a particularjurisdiction is restricted, component auditors may need to be involved.

xThe nature of the components’ activities, including their complexity or specialization of operations.

xThe group’s system of internal control, including the information system in place, and its degreeof centralization. For example, the involvement of component auditors may be more likely whenthe system of internal control is decentralized.

xPrevious experience with the component auditor.

A53. Component auditors may be involved in different phases of an audit, for example, component auditors may design or perform:

xRisk assessment procedures; and

xProcedures to respond to the assessed risks of material misstatement.

A54. The nature, timing and extent to which component auditors are to be involved depends on the facts and circumstances of the group audit engagement. Often component auditors will be involved in all phases of the audit, but the group auditor may decide to involve component auditors only in a certain phase. When the group auditor does not intend to involve component auditors in risk assessment procedures, the group auditor may still discuss with component auditors whether there are any significant changes in the business or the system of internal control of the component that could have an effect on the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements.

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 29A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

A55. SLAuS 30052 requires the engagement partner and other key members of the engagement team to be involved in planning the audit. When component auditors are involved, one or more individuals from a component auditor may be key members of the engagement team and therefore involved in planning the group audit. The involvement of component auditors in planning the audit draws on their experience and insight, thereby enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the planning process. The group engagement partner uses professional judgHment in determining which component auditors to involvein planning the audit. This may be affected by the nature, timing and extent to which the component auditors are expected to be involved in designing and performing risk assessment or further audit procedures.

A56. As described in SLSQM 1,53 there may be circumstances when the fee quoted for an engagement is not sufficient given the nature and circumstances of the engagement, and it may diminish the firm’s ability to perform the engagement in accordance with professional standards and applicable legal or regulatory requirements. The level of fees, including their allocation to component auditors, and the extent to which they relate to the resources required, may be a special consideration for group audit engagements. For example, in a group audit, the firm’s financial and operational priorities may place constraints on the determination of the components at which audit work will be performed, as well as the resources needed, including the involvement of component auditors. In such circumstances, these constraints do not override the group engagement partner’s responsibility for achieving quality at the engagement level or the requirements for the group auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence on which to base the group audit opinion.

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

Sufficient and Appropriate Involvement in the Work of the Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 23–24)

A57. In evaluating whether the group auditor will be able to be sufficiently and appropriately involved in the work of the component auditor, the group auditor may obtain an understanding of whether the component auditor is subject to any restrictions that limit communication with the group auditor, including with regard to sharing audit documentation with the group auditor. The group auditor may also obtain an understanding about whether audit evidence related to components located in a different jurisdiction may be in a different language and may need to be translated for use by the group auditor.

A58. If the component auditor is unable to cooperate with the group auditor, the group auditor may:

xRequest the component auditor to provide its rationale.

xBe able to take appropriate action to address the matter, including adjusting the nature of the workrequested to be performed. Alternatively, in accordance with paragraph 27, the group auditor mayneed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating to the work to be performed at thecomponent without involving the component auditor.

52SLAuS 300, paragraph 5

53SLSQM 1, paragraph A74

30A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Relevant Ethical Requirements, Including Those Related to Independence (Ref: Para. 25)

A59. When performing work at a component for a group audit engagement, the component auditor is subject to ethical requirements, including those related to independence, that are relevant to the group audit engagement. Such requirements may be different from or in addition to those applying to the component auditor when performing an audit on the financial statements of an entity or business unit that is part of the group for statutory, regulatory or other reasons in the component auditor’s jurisdiction.

A60. In making the component auditors aware of relevant ethical requirements, the group auditor may consider whether additional information or training for component auditors is necessary regarding the provisions of the ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit engagement.

Engagement Resources (Ref: Para. 26)

A61. SLAuS 220 (Revised)54 requires the engagement partner to determine that sufficient and appropriate resources to perform the engagement are assigned or made available to the engagement team in a timely manner. When sufficient or appropriate resources are not made available in relation to work to be performed by a component auditor, the group engagement partner may discuss the matter with the component auditor, group management or the group auditor’s firm and may subsequently request the component auditor or the group auditor’s firm to make sufficient and appropriate resources available.

Competence and capabilities of the component auditors

A62. SLAuS 220 (Revised)55 provides guidance regarding matters the engagement partner may take into consideration when determining the competence and capabilities of the engagement team. This determination is particularly important in a group audit when the engagement team includes component auditors. SLAuS 220 (Revised)56 indicates that the firm’s policies or procedures may require the firm or the engagement partner to take different actions from those applicable to personnel when obtaining an understanding of whether a component auditor from another firm has the appropriate competence and capabilities to perform the audit engagement.

A63. Determining whether component auditors have the appropriate competence and capabilities is a matter of professional judgHment and is influenced by the nature and circumstances of the groupaudit engagement. This determination influences the nature, timing and extent of the group engagement partner’s direction and supervision of the component auditor and the review of their work.

A64. In determining whether component auditors have the appropriate competence and capabilities to perform the assigned audit procedures at the component, the group engagement partner may consider matters such as:

xPrevious experience with or knowledge of the component auditor.

xThe component auditor’s specialized skills (e.g., industry-specific knowledge).

xThe degree to which the group auditor and component auditor are subject to a common system ofquality management, for example, whether the group auditor and a component auditor:

54SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 25

55SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph A71

56SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph A24

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 31A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

oUse common resources to perform the work (e.g., audit methodologies or IT applications);

oShare common policies or procedures affecting engagement performance (e.g., direction,supervision and review of work or consultation);

oAre subject to common monitoring activities; or

oHave other commonalities, including common leadership or a common cultural environment.

xThe consistency or similarity of:

oLaws or regulations or legal system;

oLanguage and culture;

oEducation and training;

oProfessional oversight, discipline, and external quality assurance; or

oProfessional organizations and standards.

xInformation obtained about the component auditor through interactions with componentmanagement, those charged with governance, and other key personnel, such as internal auditors.

A65. The procedures to determine the component auditor’s competency and capability may include, for example:xAn evaluation of the information communicated by the group auditor’s firm to the group auditor,including:

oThe firm’s ongoing communication related to monitoring and remediation, in circumstanceswhen the group auditor and component auditor are from the same firm.57

oInformation from the network about the results of the monitoring activities undertaken by thenetwork across the network firms.58

oInformation obtained from professional body(ies) to which the component auditor belongs, theauthorities by which the component auditor is licensed, or other third parties.

xDiscussing the assessed risks of material misstatement with the component auditor.

xRequesting the component auditor to confirm their understanding of the matters referred to inparagraph 25 in writing.

xDiscussing the component auditor’s competence and capabilities with colleagues in the groupengagement partner’s firm that have worked directly with the component auditor.

xObtaining published external inspection reports.

57SLSQM 1, paragraph 47

58SLSQM 1, paragraph 51(b)

32A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A66. The group engagement partner’s firm and the component auditor may be members of the same network and may be subject to common network requirements or use common network services.59 When determining whether component auditors have the appropriate competence and capabilities to perform work in support of the group audit engagement, the group engagement partner may be able to depend on such network requirements, for example, those addressing professional training or recruitment, or that require the use of audit methodologies and related implementation tools. In accordance with SLSQM 1,60 the firm is responsible for designing, implementing and operating its system of quality management, and the firm may need to adapt or supplement network requirements or network services to be appropriate for use in its system of quality management.

Using the work of an auditor’s expert

A67. SLAuS 220 (Revised)61 requires the engagement partner to determine that members of the engagement team, and any auditor’s external experts who are not part of the engagement team, collectively have the appropriate competence and capabilities, including sufficient time, to perform the audit engagement. If an auditor’s expert is used by a component auditor, the group engagement partner may need to obtain information from the component auditor. For example, the group auditor may discuss with the component auditor the component auditor’s evaluation of the competence and capabilities of the auditor’s expert.

Automated tools and techniques

A68. When determining whether the engagement team has the appropriate competence and capabilities, the group engagement partner may take into consideration such matters as the expertise of the component auditor in the use of automated tools and techniques. For example, as described in SLAuS 220 (Revised),62 when the group auditor requires component auditors to use specific automated tools and techniques when performing audit procedures, the group auditor may communicate with component auditors that the use of such automated tools and techniques need to comply with the group auditor’s instructions.

Application of the Group Auditor’s Understanding of a Component Auditor (Ref: Para. 27)

A69. SLAuS 220 (Revised)63 requires the engagement partner to take responsibility for other members of the engagement team having been made aware of relevant ethical requirements that are applicable given the nature and circumstances of the audit engagement, and the firm’s related policies or procedures. This includes the firm’s policies or procedures that address circumstances that may cause a breach of relevant ethical requirements, including those related to independence, and the responsibilities of members of the engagement team when they become aware of breaches. The firm’s policies or procedures also may address breaches of independence requirements by component auditors, and actions the group auditor may take in those circumstances in accordance with the relevant ethical requirements. In addition, relevant ethical requirements or law or regulation may also specify particular communications to those charged with governance in circumstances when breaches of independence requirements have been identified.64

59SLSQM 1, paragraphs A19, A175

60SLSQM 1, paragraph 48–49

61SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 26

62SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph A65

63SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 17

64SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph A31

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 33A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

A70. If there has been a breach by a component auditor of the relevant ethical requirements that apply to the group audit engagement, including those related to independence, and the breach has not been satisfactorily addressed in accordance with provisions of the relevant ethical requirements, the group auditor cannot use the work of that component auditor.

A71. Serious concerns are those concerns that in the group auditor’s professional judgment cannot be overcome. The group engagement partner may be able to overcome less than serious concerns about the component auditor’s professional competency (e.g., lack of industry-specific knowledge), or the fact that the component auditor does not operate in an environment that actively oversees auditors, by the group auditor being more involved in the work of the component auditor or by directly performing further audit procedures on the financial information of the component.

Engagement Performance (Ref: Para. 28)

A72. SLAuS 220 (Revised)65 requires the engagement partner to determine that the nature, timing and extent of direction, supervision and review is planned and performed in accordance with the firm’s policies or procedures, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and is responsive to the nature and circumstances of the audit engagement and the resources assigned or made available to the engagement team. For a group audit, the approach to direction, supervision and review will generally include a combination of addressing the group auditor’s firm policies or procedures and group audit engagement-specific responses.

A73. For a group audit, particularly when the engagement team includes a large number of component auditors that may be located in multiple locations, the group engagement partner may assign the design or performance of procedures, tasks or actions to other members of the engagement team to assist the group engagement partner in fulfilling the responsibility for the nature, timing and extent of the direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work (see also paragraph 11).

A74. If component auditors are from a firm other than the group auditor’s firm, the firm’s policies or procedures may be different, or different actions may need to be taken, respectively, in relation to the nature, timing and extent of direction and supervision of those members of the engagement team, and the review of their work. In particular, firm policies or procedures may require the firm or the group engagement partner to take different actions from those applicable to members of the engagement team within the firm or the network (e.g., in relation to the form, content and timing of communications with component auditors, including the use of group auditor instructions to component auditors). SLAuS 220 (Revised) provides examples of actions that may need to be taken in such circumstances.66

A75. The nature, timing and extent of direction and supervision of component auditors and review of their work may be tailored based on the nature and circumstances of the engagement and, for example:

xThe assessed risks of material misstatement. For example, if the group auditor has identified acomponent that includes a significant risk, an increase in the extent of direction and supervision ofthe component auditor and a more detailed review of the component auditor’s audit documentationmay be appropriate.

65SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 30

66SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph A24–A25

34A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xThe competence and capabilities of the component auditors performing the audit work. Forexample, if the group auditor has no previous experience working with a component auditor, thegroup auditor may communicate more detailed instructions, increase the frequency of discussionsor other interactions with the component auditor, or assign more experienced individuals to overseethe component auditor as the work is performed.

xThe location of engagement team members, including the extent to which engagement teammembers are dispersed across multiple locations, including when service delivery centers are used.

xAccess to component auditor audit documentation. For example, when law or regulation precludescomponent auditor audit documentation from being transferred out of the component auditor’sjurisdiction, the group auditor may be able to review the audit documentation at the componentauditor’s location or remotely through the use of technology, when not prohibited by law orregulation (see also paragraphs A179–A180).

A76. There are different ways in which the group engagement partner may take responsibility for directing and supervising component auditors and reviewing their work, for example:

xCommunications with component auditors throughout the course of the group audit, includingcommunications required by this SLAuS.

xMeetings or calls with component auditors to discuss identified and assessed risks, issues, findingsand conclusions.

xReviews of the component auditor’s audit documentation in person or remotely when permitted bylaw and regulation.

xParticipating in the closing or other key meetings between the component auditors and componentmanagement.

A77. In applying SLAuS 220 (Revised),67 the group engagement partner is required to review audit documentation at appropriate points in time during the audit engagement, including audit documentation relevant to the group audit relating to:

xSignificant matters;

xSignificant judgments, including those relating to difficult or contentious matters identified duringthe audit engagement, and the conclusions reached; and

xOther matters that, in the engagement partner’s professional judgment, are relevant to theengagement partner’s responsibilities.

The review of such audit documentation by the group engagement partner often takes place during the course of the group audit, including the review of relevant component auditor audit documentation (also see paragraph A148).

Communications with Component Auditors (Ref: Para. 29)

A78. Clear and timely communication between the group auditor and the component auditors about their respective responsibilities, along with clear direction to the component auditors about the nature, timing

67SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraphs 31, A92–A93

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 35A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

and extent of the work to be performed and the matters expected to be communicated to the group auditor, helps establish the basis for effective two-way communication. Effective two-way communication between the group auditor and the component auditors also helps to set expectations for component auditors and facilitates the group auditor’s direction and supervision of them and the review of their work. Such communication also provides an opportunity for the group engagement partner to reinforce the need for component auditors to exercise professional skepticism in the work performed for purposes of the group audit.

A79. Other factors that may also contribute to effective two-way communication include:

xClarity of the instructions to the component auditor, particularly when the component auditor isfrom another firm and may not be familiar with the policies or procedures of the group auditor’sfirm.

xA mutual understanding that the component auditor may discuss the audit work requested to beperformed, based on the component auditor’s knowledge and understanding of the component.

xA mutual understanding of relevant issues and the expected actions arising from the communicationprocess.

xThe form of communications. For example, matters that need timely attention may be moreappropriately discussed in a meeting rather than by exchanging emails.

xA mutual understanding of the person(s) from the group auditor and component auditors who haveresponsibility for managing communications regarding particular matters.

xThe process for the component auditor to take action and report back on matters communicated bythe group auditor.

A80. The communications between the group auditor and component auditors depend on the facts and circumstances of the group audit engagement, including the nature and extent of involvement of the component auditors and the degree to which the group auditor and component auditors are subject to common systems of quality management or common network requirements or network services.

Form of communications

A81. The form of the communications between the group auditor and component auditors may vary based on factors such as the nature of the audit work the component auditors have been requested to perform, and the extent to which communication capabilities are integrated into the audit tools used for the group audit.

A82. The form of communications also may be affected by such factors as:

xThe significance, complexity or urgency of the matter.xWhether the matter has been or is expected to be communicated to group management and thosecharged with governance of the group.

A83. Communication between the group auditor and the component auditor may not necessarily be in writing. However, the group auditor’s verbal communications with the component auditors may be

36A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

supplemented by written communication, such as a set of instructions regarding the work to be performed, when the group auditor wants to give particular attention to, or promote a mutual understanding about, certain matters. In addition, the group auditor may meet with the component auditor to discuss significant matters or to review relevant parts of the component auditor’s audit documentation.

A84. Paragraph 45 requires the group auditor to request the component auditor to communicate matters relevant to the group auditor’s conclusion with regard to the group audit. As explained in paragraph A146, the form and content of the component auditor’s deliverables are influenced by the nature and extent of the audit work the component auditor has been requested to perform.

A85. Regardless of the form of communication, the documentation requirements of this and other SLAuSs apply.

Timing of communications

A86. The appropriate timing of communications will vary with the circumstances of the engagement. Relevant circumstances may include the nature, timing and extent of work to be performed by the component auditor and the action expected to be taken by the component auditor. For example, communications regarding planning matters may often be made early in the audit engagement and, for an initial group audit, may be made as part of agreeing the terms of the engagement.

Non-compliance with laws or regulations (Ref: Para. 25, 29)

A87. In applying SLAuS 250 (Revised),68 the group engagement partner may become aware of information about non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws or regulations. In such circumstances, the group engagement partner may have an obligation under relevant ethical requirements, laws or regulations, to communicate the matter to the component auditor.69 The obligation of the group engagement partner to communicate non-compliance or suspected non-compliance may extend to auditors of the financial statements of entities or business units for which an audit is required by statute, regulation or for another reason, but for which no audit work is performed for purposes of the group audit.

Understanding the Group and Its Environment, the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework and the Group’s System of Internal Control (Ref: Para. 30)

A88. SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019)70 contains requirements and guidance regarding the auditor’s responsibility to obtain an understanding of the entity and its environment, the applicable financial reporting framework, and the entity’s system of internal control. Appendix 2 of this SLAuS provides examples of matters related to internal control that may be helpful in obtaining an understanding of the system of internal control in the context of a group environment, and expands on how SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019) is to be applied to an audit of group financial statements.

A89. The understanding of the group and its environment, the applicable financial reporting framework, and the group’s system of internal control may be obtained through communications with:

68SLAuS 250 (Revised), Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements

69See, for example, Paragraphs R360.17 and R360.18 of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka’ Sri Lanka Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Sri Lanka Independence Standards) (CA Sri Lanka Code)

70SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraphs 19–27, A50‒A183

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 37A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xGroup management, component management or other appropriate individuals within the entity,including individuals within the internal audit function (if the function exists) and individuals whohave knowledge of the group’s system of internal control, accounting policies and practices, andthe consolidation process;

xComponent auditors; or

xAuditors that perform an audit for statutory, regulatory or other reasons of the financial statementsof an entity or business unit that is part of the group.

A90. Obtaining an understanding of the group, identifying risks of material misstatement and assessing inherent risk and control risk may be performed in different ways depending on preferred audit techniques or methodologies and may be expressed in different ways. Accordingly, when component auditors are involved in the design and performance of risk assessment procedures, the group auditor may need to communicate its preferred approach with component auditors or provide instructions.

Engagement Team Discussion (Ref: Para. 30)

A91. In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),71 the group engagement partner and other key engagement team members are required to discuss the application of the applicable financial reporting framework and the susceptibility of the group’s financial statements to material misstatement. The group engagement partner’s determination of which members of the engagement team to include in the discussion, and the topics to be discussed, is affected by matters such as initial expectations about the risks of material misstatement and the preliminary expectation of whether to involve component auditors.

A92. The discussion provides an opportunity to:

xShare knowledge of the components and their environments, including which components’activities are centralized.

xExchange information about the business risks of the components or the group, and how inherentrisk factors may affect susceptibility to misstatement of classes of transactions, account balancesand disclosures.

xExchange ideas about how and where the group financial statements may be susceptible to materialmisstatement due to fraud or error. SLAuS 240 72 requires the engagement team discussion toplace particular emphasis on how and where the entity’s financial statements may be susceptible tomaterial misstatement due to fraud, including how fraud may occur.

xIdentify policies followed by group or component management that may be biased or designed tomanage earnings that could lead to fraudulent financial reporting.

xConsider known external and internal factors affecting the group that may create an incentive orpressure for group management, component management, or others to commit fraud, provide the

71SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph 17

72SLAuS 240, paragraph 16

38A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

opportunity for fraud to be perpetrated, or indicate a culture or environment that enables group management, component management, or others to rationalize committing fraud.

xConsider the risk that group or component management may override controls.

xDiscuss fraud that has been identified, or information that indicates existence of a fraud.

xIdentify risks of material misstatement relevant to components where there may be impediments tothe exercise of professional skepticism.

xConsider whether uniform accounting policies are used to prepare the financial information of thecomponents for the group financial statements and, if not, how differences in accounting policiesare identified and adjusted (when required by the applicable financial reporting framework).

xShare information about risks of material misstatement of the financial information of a componentthat may apply more broadly to some, or all, of the other components.

xShare information that may indicate non-compliance with national laws or regulations, for example,payments of bribes and improper transfer pricing practices.

xDiscuss events or conditions identified by group management, component management or theengagement team, that may cast significant doubt on the group’s ability to continue as a goingconcern.

xDiscuss related party relationships or transactions identified by group management or componentmanagement, and any other related parties of which the engagement team is aware.

The Group and Its Environment (Ref: Para. 30 (a))

A93. An understanding of the group’s organizational structure and its business model may enable the group auditor to understand such matters as:

xThe complexity of the group’s structure. A group may be more complex than a single entity becausea group may have several subsidiaries, divisions or other business units, including in multiplelocations. Also, a group’s legal structure may be different from the operating structure, for example,for tax purposes. Complex structures often introduce factors that may give rise to increasedsusceptibility to material misstatements, such as whether goodwill, joint ventures or special-purpose entities are accounted for appropriately and whether adequate disclosures have been made.

xThe geographic locations of the group’s operations. Having a group that is located in multiplegeographical locations may give rise to increased susceptibility to material misstatements. Forexample, different geographical locations may involve different languages, cultures and businesspractices.

xThe structure and complexity of the group’s IT environment. A complex IT environment oftenintroduces factors that may give rise to increased susceptibility to material misstatements. Forexample, a group may have a complex IT environment because of multiple IT systems that are notintegrated due to recent acquisitions or mergers. Therefore, it may be particularly important toobtain an understanding of the complexity of the security over the IT environment, includingvulnerability of the IT applications, databases, and other aspects of the IT environment. A groupmay also use one or more external service providers for aspects of its IT environment.

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 39A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xRelevant regulatory factors, including the regulatory environment. Different laws or regulationsmay introduce factors that may give rise to increased susceptibility to material misstatements. Agroup may have operations that are subject to a high degree of complex laws or regulations inmultiple jurisdictions, or entities or business units in the group that operate in multiple industriesthat are subject to different types of laws or regulations.

xThe ownership, and relationships between owners and other people or entities, including relatedparties. Understanding the ownership and relationships can be more complex in a group thatoperates across multiple jurisdictions and when there are changes in ownership through formation,acquisition, disposal or joint venture. These factors may give rise to increased susceptibility tomaterial misstatements.

A94Obtaining an understanding of the degree to which the group’s operations or activities are similar may help to identify similar risks of material misstatement across components and design an appropriate response.

A95. The financial results of entities or business units are ordinarily measured and reviewed by group management. Inquiries of group management may reveal that group management relies on certain key indicators to evaluate the financial performance of the group’s entities and business units and take action. The understanding of such performance measures may help to identify:

xAreas where there is increased susceptibility to material misstatements (e.g., due to pressures oncomponent management to meet certain performance measures).

xControls over the group’s financial reporting process.

The Group’s System of Internal Control

The Nature and Extent of Commonality of Controls (Ref: Para. 30(c)(i))

A96. Group management may design controls that are intended to operate in a common manner across multiple entities or business units (i.e., common controls). For example, group management may design common controls for inventory management, which operate using the same IT system and that are implemented across all entities or business units in the group. Common controls may exist in each component of the group’s system of internal control, and they may be implemented at different levels within the group (e.g., at the level of the consolidated group as a whole, or for other levels of aggregation within the group). Common controls may be direct controls or indirect controls. Direct controls are controls that are precise enough to address risks of material misstatement at the assertion level. Indirect controls are controls that support direct controls.73

xThe control is designed centrally and is required to be implemented as designed (i.e., withoutmodification) at some or all components;

xThe control is implemented and, if applicable, monitored by individuals with similarresponsibilities and capabilities at all the components where the control is implemented;

73SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph A5

40A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xIf a control uses information from IT applications, the IT applications and other aspects of the ITenvironment that generate the information are the same across the components or locations; or

xIf the control is automated, it is configured in the same way in each IT application across thecomponents.

A98. Judgment may often be needed to determine whether a control is a common control. For example, group management may require that all entities and business units perform a monthly evaluation of the aging of customers’ accounts that is generated from a specific IT application. When the aging reports are generated from different IT applications or the implementation of the IT application differs across entities or business units, there may be a need to consider whether the control can be determined to be common. This is because of differences in the design of the control that may exist due to the existence of different IT applications (e.g., whether the IT application is configured in the same manner across components, and whether there are effective general IT controls across different IT applications).

A99. Consideration of the level at which controls are performed within the group (e.g., at the level of the consolidated group as a whole or for other levels of aggregation within the group) and the degree of centralization and commonality may be important to the understanding of how information is processed and controlled. In some circumstances, controls may be performed centrally (e.g.,performed only at a single entity or business unit), but may have a pervasive effect on other entities or business units (e.g., a shared service center that processes transactions on behalf of other entities or business units within the group). The processing of transactions and related controls at a shared service center may operate in the same way for those transactions being processed by the shared service center regardless of the entity or business unit (e.g., the processes, risks and controls may be the same regardless of the source of the transaction). In such cases, it may be appropriate to identify the controls and evaluate the design and determine the implementation of the controls, and, if applicable, test operating effectiveness, as a single population.

Centralized Activities (Ref: Para. 30(c)(i)–(ii))

A100. Group management may centralize some of its activities, for example financial reporting or accounting functions may be performed for a particular group of common transactions or other financial information in a consistent and centralized manner for multiple entities or business units (e.g., when the initiation, authorization, recording, processing, or reporting of revenue transactions is performed at a shared service center).

A101. Obtaining an understanding of how centralized activities fit into the overall group structure, and the nature of the activities undertaken, may help to identify and assess risks of material misstatement and appropriately respond to such risks. For example, controls at a shared service center may operate independently from other controls, or they may be dependent upon controls at an entity or business unit from which financial information is derived (e.g., sales transactions may be initiated and authorized at an entity or business unit, but the processing may occur at the shared service center).

A102. The group auditor may involve component auditors in testing the operating effectiveness of common controls or controls related to centralized activities. In such circumstances, effective collaboration between the group auditor and component auditors is important as the audit evidence obtained through testing the operating effectiveness of common controls or controls related to centralized activities supports the determination of the nature, timing and extent of substantive procedures to be performed across the group.

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 41A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Communications About Significant Matters that Support the Preparation of the Group Financial Statements (Ref: Para. 30(c)(iv))

A103. Group entities or business units may use a financial reporting framework for statutory, regulatory or other reasons that is different from the financial reporting framework used for the group’s financial statements. In such circumstances, an understanding of group management’s financial reporting processes to align accounting policies and, when relevant, financial reporting period-ends that differ from that of the group, enables the group auditor to understand how adjustments, reconciliations and reclassifications are made, and whether they are made centrally by group management or by the entity or business unit.

Instructions by group management to entities or business units

A104. In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),74 the group auditor is required to understand how group management communicates significant matters that support the preparation of the group financial statements. To achieve uniformity and comparability of financial information, group management may issue instructions (e.g., communicate financial reporting policies) to the entities or business units that include details about financial reporting processes or may have policies that are common across the group. Obtaining an understanding of group management’s instructions may affect the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements. For example, inadequate instructions may increase the likelihood of misstatements due to the risk that transactions are incorrectly recorded or processed, or that accounting policies are incorrectly applied.

A105. The group auditor’s understanding of the instructions or policies may include the following:

xThe clarity and practicality of the instructions for completing the reporting package.

xWhether the instructions:

oAdequately describe the characteristics of the applicable financial reporting framework andthe accounting policies to be applied;

oAddress information necessary to prepare disclosures that are sufficient to comply with therequirements of the applicable financial reporting framework, for example, disclosure ofrelated party relationships and transactions, and segment information;

oAddress information necessary for making consolidation adjustments, for example, intra-grouptransactions and unrealized profits, and intra-group account balances; and

oInclude a reporting timetable.

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved (Ref: Para. 31–32)

A106. During the course of the group audit, the group auditor may communicate the matters in paragraph 31 to other component auditors, if these matters are relevant to the work of those component auditors. Paragraph A144 includes examples of other matters that may need to be communicated timely in the course of the component auditor’s work.

74SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph 25(b)

42A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A107. The nature of related party relationships and transactions may, in some circumstances, give rise to higher risks of material misstatement of the financial statements than transactions with unrelated parties.75 In a group audit there may be a higher risk of material misstatement of the group financial statements, including due to fraud, associated with related party relationships when:

xThe group structure is complex;

xThe group’s information systems are not integrated and therefore less effective in identifying andrecording related party relationships and transactions; and

xThere are numerous or frequent related party transactions between entities and business units.

Planning and performing the audit with professional skepticism, as required by SLAuS 200,76 is therefore particularly important when these circumstances exist.

Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 33)

A108. The process to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements is iterative and dynamic, and may be challenging, particularly when the component’s activities are complex or specialized, or when there are many components across multiple locations. In applying SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019),77 the auditor develops initial expectations about the potential risks of material misstatement and an initial identification of the significant classes of transactions, account balances and disclosures of the group financial statements based on their understanding of the group and its environment, the applicable financial reporting framework and the group’s system of internal control.

A109. The initial expectations about the potential risks of material misstatement take into account the auditor’s understanding of the group, including its entities or business units, and the environments and industries in which they operate. Based on the initial expectations, the group auditor may, and often will, involve component auditors in risk assessment procedures as they may have direct knowledge and experience with the entities or business units that may be helpful in understanding the activities and related risks, and where risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements may arise in relation to those entities or business units.

A110. For identified risks of material misstatement at the assertion level, the group auditor is required to take responsibility for assessing inherent risk. Such assessment involves assessing the likelihood and magnitude of misstatement, which takes into account how, and the degree to which:78

xInherent risk factors affect the susceptibility of relevant assertions to misstatement.

xThe risks of material misstatement at the group financial statement level affect the assessment ofinherent risk for risks of material misstatement at the assertion level.

A111. Based on the risk assessment procedures performed, the group auditor may determine that an assessed risk of material misstatement of the group financial statements only arises in relation to financial information of certain components. For example, the risk of material misstatement relating to a legal

75SLAuS 550, paragraph 2

76SLAuS 200, paragraph 15

77SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph A126

78SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph 31

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 43A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

claim may only exist in entities or business units that operate in a certain jurisdiction or in entities or business units that have similar operations or activities.

A112. Appendix 3 sets out examples of events and conditions that, individually or together, may indicate risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, including with respect to the consolidation process.

Fraud

A113. In applying SLAuS 240,79 the auditor is required to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud, and to design and perform further audit procedures whose nature, timing and extent are responsive to the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud at the assertion level. Information used to identify the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements due to fraud may include the following:

xGroup management’s assessment of the risk that the group financial statements may be materiallymisstated due to fraud.

xGroup management’s process for identifying and responding to the risks of fraud in the groupfinancial statements, including any specific fraud risks identified by group management, or classesof transactions, account balances, or disclosures for which a risk of fraud is higher.

xWhether there are particular components that are more susceptible to risks of material misstatementdue to fraud.

xWhether any fraud risk factors or indicators of management bias exist in the consolidation process.

xHow those charged with governance of the group monitor group management’s processes foridentifying and responding to the risks of fraud in the group, and the controls group managementhas established to mitigate these risks.

xResponses of those charged with governance of the group, group management, appropriateindividuals within the internal audit function (and when appropriate, component management, thecomponent auditors, and others) to the group auditor’s inquiry about whether they have knowledgeof any actual, suspected, or alleged fraud affecting a component or the group.

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved (Ref: Para. 34)

A114. When the group auditor involves component auditors in the design and performance of risk assessment procedures, the group auditor remains responsible for having an understanding of the group and its environment, the applicable financial reporting framework and the group’s system of internal control to have a sufficient basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements in accordance with paragraph 33.

A115. When the audit evidence obtained from the risk assessment procedures does not provide an appropriate basis for the identification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement, SLAuS 315 (Revised

79SLAuS 240, paragraphs 26, 31

44A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

2019)80 requires the auditor to perform additional risk assessment procedures until audit evidence has been obtained to provide such a basis.

Materiality

Component Performance Materiality (Ref: Para. 35(a))

A116. Paragraph 35(a) requires the group auditor to determine component performance materiality for each of the components where audit procedures are performed on financial information that is disaggregated. The component performance materiality amount may be different for each component. Also, the component performance materiality amount for an individual component need not be an arithmetical portion of the group performance materiality and, consequently, the aggregate of component performance materiality amounts may exceed group performance materiality.

A117. This SLAuS does not require component performance materiality to be determined for each class of transactions, account balance or disclosure for components at which audit procedures are performed. However, if, in the specific circumstances of the group, there is one or more particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures for which misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the group financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the group financial statements, SLAuS 32081 requires a determination of the materiality level or levels to be applied to those particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures. In these circumstances, the group auditor may need to consider whether a component performance materiality lower than the amount communicated to the component auditor may be appropriate for those particular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures.82

A118. The determination of component performance materiality is not a simple mechanical calculation and involves the exercise of professional judgment. Factors the group auditor may take into account in setting component performance materiality include the following:

xThe extent of disaggregation of the financial information across components (e.g., as the extent ofdisaggregation across components increases, a lower component performance materialityordinarily would be appropriate to address aggregation risk). The relative significance of thecomponent to the group may affect the extent of disaggregation (e.g., if a single componentrepresents a large portion of the group, there likely may be less disaggregation across components).

xExpectations about the nature, frequency, and magnitude of misstatements in the componentfinancial information, for example:

oWhether there are risks that are unique to the financial information of the component (e.g.,industry-specific accounting matters, unusual or complex transactions).

oThe nature and extent of misstatements identified at the component in prior audits.

A119. To address aggregation risk, paragraph 35(a) requires component performance materiality to be lower than group performance materiality. As explained in paragraph A118, as the extent of disaggregation across components increases, a lower component performance materiality amount ordinarily would be appropriate to address aggregation risk. In some circumstances, however, component performance materiality may be set at an amount closer to group performance materiality because there is less

80SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), paragraph 35

81SLAuS 320, paragraphs 10 and A11–A12

82SLAuS 320, paragraph A13

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 45A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

aggregation risk, such as when the financial information for one component represents a substantial portion of the group financial statements. When determining component performance materiality for a non-controlling interest in an entity that is accounted for by the equity method, the group auditor may take into account the group’s ownership percentage and the share of the investee’s profits and losses.

A120. In some cases, further audit procedures may be performed by the group auditor or a component auditor on a significant class of transactions or significant account balance as a single population (i.e., not disaggregated across components). In such cases, group performance materiality often will be used forpurposes of performing these procedures.

“Clearly Trivial” Threshold (Ref: Para: 35(b))

A121. The threshold for communicating misstatements to the group auditor is set at an amount equal to, or lower than, the amount regarded as clearly trivial for the group financial statements. In accordance with SLAuS 450,83 this threshold is the amount below which misstatements would not need to be accumulated because the group auditor expects that the accumulation of such amounts clearly would not have a material effect on the group financial statements.

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved

Communicating Component Performance Materiality (Ref: Para. 36)

A122. In some cases, it may be appropriate for the group auditor to involve the component auditor in determining an appropriate component performance materiality amount, in view of the component auditor’s knowledge of the component and potential sources of misstatement of the component financial information. In this regard, the group auditor also may consider communicating group performance materiality to the component auditor to support collaboration in determining whether component performance materiality, in relation to group performance materiality, is appropriate in the circumstances.

A123. Component performance materiality is based, at least in part, on expectations about the nature, frequency, and magnitude of misstatements in the component financial information. Therefore, ongoing communication between the component auditor and the group auditor is important, particularly if the number and magnitude of misstatements identified by the component auditor are higher than expected.

Responding to the Assessed Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 37)

Performing Further Audit Procedures

Performing Further Audit Procedures Centrally

A124. Further audit procedures may be designed and performed centrally if the audit evidence to be obtained from performing further audit procedures on one or more significant classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures in the aggregate will respond to the assessed risks of material misstatement, for example, if the accounting records for the revenue transactions of the entire group are maintained

83SLAuS 450, paragraph A3

46A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

centrally (e.g., at a shared service center). Factors that may be relevant to the auditor’s determination of whether to perform further audit procedures centrally include, for example:

xThe level of centralization of activities relevant to financial reporting.xThe nature and extent of commonality of controls.xThe similarity of the group’s activities and business lines.

A125. The group auditor may determine that the financial information of several components can be considered as one population for the purpose of performing further audit procedures, for example, when transactions are considered to be homogeneous because they share the same characteristics, the related risks of material misstatement are the same, and controls are designed and operating in a consistent way.

A126. When further audit procedures are performed centrally, component auditors may still be involved. For example, when the group has multiple shared service centers, the group auditor may involve component auditors in the performance of further audit procedures for these shared service centers.

Performing Further Audit Procedures at the Component Level

A127. In other circumstances, procedures to respond to the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements that are related to the financial information of a component may be more effectively performed at the component level. This may be the case when the group has:

xDifferent revenue streams;xMultiple lines of business;xOperations across multiple locations; orxDecentralized systems of internal control.

Large Number of Components Whose Financial Information Is Individually Immaterial but Material in the Aggregate to the Group Financial Statements

A128. A group may be comprised of a large number of components whose financial information is individually immaterial but material in the aggregate to the group financial statements. Circumstances such as these in which the significant classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures in the group financial statements are disaggregated over a large number of components may present additional challenges for the group auditor in planning and performing further audit procedures.

A129. In some cases, it may be possible to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence by performing further audit procedures centrally on these significant classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures (e.g., if they are homogeneous, subject to common controls and access to appropriate information can be obtained). The further audit procedures may also include substantive analytical procedures in accordance with SLAuS 520.84 Depending on the circumstances of the engagement, the financial information of the components may be aggregated at appropriate levels for purposes of developing expectations and determining the amount of any difference of recorded amounts from expected values in performing the substantive analytical procedures. The use of automated tools and techniques may be helpful in these circumstances.

A130. In other cases, it may be necessary to perform further audit procedures at selected components to address the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements. The determination of the

84SLAuS 520, Analytical Procedures

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 47A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

components at which audit procedures are to be performed, and the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures to be performed at the selected components, are matters of professional judgment. In these circumstances, introducing an element of unpredictability in the components selected for testing also may be helpful in relation to the risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements due to fraud (also see paragraph A136).

The Nature and Extent of Further Audit Procedures

A131. In response to the assessed risks of material misstatement, the group auditor may determine the following scope of work to be appropriate at a component (with the involvement of component auditors, as applicable):

xDesign and perform further audit procedures on the entire financial information of the component;xDesign and perform further audit procedures on one or more classes of transactions, accountbalances or disclosures; orxPerform specific further audit procedures.

A132. Although the group auditor takes responsibility for the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures to be performed, component auditors can be, and often are, involved in all phases of the group audit, including in the design and performance of further audit procedures.

Design and Perform Further Audit Procedures on the Entire Financial Information of the Component

A133. The group auditor may determine that designing and performing further audit procedures on the entire financial information of a component is an appropriate approach, including when:

xAudit evidence needs to be obtained on all or a significant proportion of a component’s financialinformation to respond to the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financialstatements.

xThere is a pervasive risk of material misstatement of the group financial statements due to theexistence of events or conditions at the component that may be relevant to the group auditor’sevaluation of group management’s assessment of the group’s ability to continue as a going concern

Design and Perform Further Audit Procedures on One or More Classes of Transactions, Account Balances or Disclosures

A134. The group auditor may determine that designing and performing further audit procedures on one or more particular classes of transactions, account balances, or disclosures of the financial information of a component is an appropriate approach to address assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements. For example, a component may have limited operations but holds a significant portion of the land and buildings of the group or has significant tax balances.

Perform Specific Further Audit Procedures

A135. The group auditor may determine that designing and performing specific further audit procedures on the financial information of a component is an appropriate approach, such as when audit evidence needs

48A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

to be obtained for one or more relevant assertions only. For example, the group auditor may centrally test the class of transaction, account balance or disclosure and may require the component auditor to perform specific further audit procedures at the component (e.g., specific further audit procedures related to the valuation of claims or litigation in the component’s jurisdiction or the existence of an asset).

Element of Unpredictability

A136. Incorporating an element of unpredictability in the type of work to be performed, the entities or business units at which procedures are performed and the extent to which the group auditor is involved in the work, may increase the likelihood of identifying a material misstatement of the components’ financial information that may give rise to a material misstatement of the group financial statements due to fraud.85

Operating Effectiveness of Controls

A137. The group auditor may rely on the operating effectiveness of controls that operate throughout the group in determining the nature, timing and extent of substantive procedures to be performed at either the group level or at the components. SLAuS 33086 requires the auditor to design and perform tests of controls to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence as to the operating effectiveness of those controls. Component auditors may be involved in designing and performing such tests of controls.

A138. If deviations from controls upon which the auditor intends to rely are detected, SLAuS 33087 requires the auditor to make specific inquiries to understand these matters and their potential consequences. If more deviations than expected are detected as a result of testing the operating effectiveness of the controls, the group auditor may need to revise the group audit plan. Possible revisions to the group audit plan may include:

xRequesting additional substantive procedures to be performed at certain components.

xIdentifying and testing the operating effectiveness of other relevant controls that are designed andimplemented effectively.

xIncreasing the number of components selected for further audit procedures.

A139. When the operating effectiveness of controls is tested centrally (e.g., controls at a shared service center or testing of common controls), the group auditor may need to communicate information about the audit work performed to the component auditors. For example, when a component auditor is requested to design and perform substantive procedures on the entire financial information of the component, or design and perform substantive procedures on one or more classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures, the component auditor may discuss with the group auditor about the control testing performed centrally to determine the nature, timing and extent of the substantive procedures.

85SLAuS 240, paragraph 30(c)

86SLAuS 330, paragraph 8

87SLAuS 330, paragraph 17

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 49A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Consolidation Process

Consolidation Procedures (Ref: Para. 38)

A140. The further audit procedures on the consolidation process, including sub-consolidations, may include:

xDetermining that the necessary journal entries are reflected in the consolidation; and

xEvaluating the operating effectiveness of the controls over the consolidation process andresponding appropriately if any controls are determined to be ineffective.

Consolidation Adjustments and Reclassifications (Ref: Para. 38(b))

A141. The consolidation process may require adjustments and reclassifications to amounts reported in the group financial statements that do not pass through the usual IT applications, and may not be subject to the same controls to which other financial information is subject. The group auditor’s evaluation of the appropriateness, completeness and accuracy of the adjustments and reclassifications may include:

xEvaluating whether significant adjustments appropriately reflect the events and transactionsunderlying them;

xDetermining whether those entities or business units whose financial information has been includedin the group financial statements were appropriately included;

xDetermining whether significant adjustments have been correctly calculated, processed andauthorized by group management and, when applicable, by component management;

xDetermining whether significant adjustments are properly supported and sufficiently documented;and

xEvaluating the reconciliation and elimination of intra-group transactions, unrealized profits, andintra-group account balances.

Considerations When Component Auditors Are Involved (Ref: Para. 42–43)

A142. When the group auditor involves component auditors in the design or performance of further audit procedures, the component auditor may determine that the use of the work of an auditor’s expert is appropriate and communicate this to the group auditor. In such circumstances, when determining whether the component auditor’s design and performance of further audit procedures is appropriate, the group auditor may, for example, discuss with the component auditor:

xThe nature, scope and objectives of the auditor’s expert’s work.

xThe component auditor’s evaluation of the adequacy of the work of the auditor’s expert for thegroup auditor’s purposes.

A143. The appropriate level of the group auditor’s involvement may depend on the circumstances and the structure of the group and other factors, such as the group auditor’s previous experience with the component auditors that perform procedures on the consolidation process, including sub-consolidations,

50A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

and the circumstances of the group audit engagement (e.g., if the financial information of an entity or business unit has not been prepared in accordance with the same accounting policies applied to the group financial statements).

Evaluating the Component Auditor’s Communication and the Adequacy of Their Work

Communication about Matters Relevant to the Group Auditor’s Conclusion with Regard to the Group Audit (Ref: Para. 45)

A144. Although the matters required to be communicated in accordance with paragraph 45 are relevant to the group auditor’s conclusion with regard to the group audit, certain matters may be communicated during the course of the component auditor’s procedures. In addition to the matters in paragraphs 32 and 50, such matters may include, for example:

xInformation about breaches of relevant ethical requirements, including identified breaches ofindependence provisions;

xInformation about instances of non-compliance with laws or regulations;

xNewly arising significant risks of material misstatement, including risks of fraud;xIdentified or suspected fraud or illegal acts involving component management or employees thatcould have a material effect on the group financial statements; or

xSignificant and unusual transactions.

Communication of Misstatements of Component Financial Information (Ref: Para. 45(e))

A145. Knowledge about corrected and uncorrected misstatements across components may alert the group auditor to potential pervasive internal control deficiencies, when considered along with the communication of deficiencies in accordance with paragraph 45(g). In addition, a higher than expected number of identified misstatements (uncorrected or corrected) may indicate a higher risk of undetected misstatements, which may lead the group auditor to conclude that additional audit procedures need to be performed at certain components.

Component Auditor’s Overall Findings or Conclusions (Ref: Para. 45(k))

A146. The form and content of the deliverables from the component auditor are influenced by the nature and extent of the audit work the component auditor has been requested to perform. The group auditor’s firm policies or procedures may address the form or specific wording of an overall conclusion from the component auditor on the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. In some cases, local law or regulation may specify the form of conclusion (e.g., an opinion) to be provided by the component auditor.

Evaluating Whether Communications with the Component Auditor Are Adequate for the Group Auditor’s Purposes (Ref: Para. 46(b))

A147. If the group auditor determines that the component auditor’s communications are not adequate for the group auditor’s purposes, the group auditor may consider whether, for example:

xFurther information can be obtained from the component auditor (e.g., through further discussionsor meetings);

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 51A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xIt is necessary to review additional component auditor audit documentation in accordance withparagraph 47;

xAdditional audit procedures may need to be performed in accordance with paragraph 48; or

xThere are any concerns about the component auditor’s competence or capabilities.

Reviewing Additional Component Auditor Audit Documentation (Ref: Para. 47)

A148. Paragraph A75 provides guidance for the group auditor in tailoring the nature, timing and extent of the direction and supervision of the component auditor, and the review of their work, based on the facts and circumstances of the group audit and other matters (e.g., the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements). The group auditor’s consideration in accordance with paragraph 47(c) also may be affected by the following matters relevant to the group auditor’s ongoing involvement in the work of the component auditor:

xCommunications from the component auditor, including those in accordance with paragraph 45 ofthis SLAuS; and

xThe review of component auditor audit documentation by the group auditor during the course ofthe group audit (e.g., to fulfill the requirements of paragraphs 34, 42 and 43) or by the groupengagement partner in accordance with paragraph 31 of SLAuS 220 (Revised).

A149. Other factors that may affect the group auditor’s determination about whether, and the extent to which, it is necessary to review additional component auditor audit documentation in the circumstances include:

xThe degree to which the component auditor was involved in risk assessment procedures and in theidentification and assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the group financialstatements;

xThe significant judgments made by, and the findings or conclusions of, the component auditorabout matters that are material to the group financial statements;

xThe competence and capabilities of more experienced engagement team members from thecomponent auditor responsible for reviewing the work of less experienced individuals; and

xWhether the component auditor and group auditor are subject to common policies or proceduresfor review of audit documentation.

Subsequent Events (Ref: Para. 49–50)

A150. The group auditor may:

xRequest a component auditor to perform subsequent events procedures to assist the group auditorto identify events that occur between the dates of the financial information of the components andthe date of the auditor’s report on the group financial statements.

xPerform procedures to cover the period between the date of communication of subsequent eventsby the component auditor and the date of the auditor’s report on the group financial statements.

52A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Evaluating the Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence Obtained

Sufficiency and Appropriateness of Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 51)

A151. The audit of group financial statements is a cumulative and iterative process. As the group auditor performs planned audit procedures, the audit evidence obtained may cause the group auditor to modify the nature, timing or extent of other planned audit procedures as information may come to the group auditor’s attention that differs significantly from the information on which the risk assessment was based. For example:

xThe misstatements identified at a component may need to be considered in relation to othercomponents; or

xThe group auditor may become aware of access restrictions to information or people at a componentbecause of changes in the environment (e.g., war, civil unrest or outbreaks of disease).

In such circumstances, the group auditor may need to reevaluate the planned audit procedures, based on the revised consideration of assessed risks for all or some of the significant classes of transactions, account balances, or disclosures and related assertions.

A152. The evaluation required by paragraph 51 assists the group auditor in determining whether the overall group audit strategy and group audit plan developed to respond to the assessed risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements continues to be appropriate. The requirement in SLAuS 33088 for the auditor, irrespective of the assessed risks of material misstatement, to design and perform substantive procedures for each material class of transactions, account balance, and disclosure also may be helpful for purposes of this evaluation in the context of the group financial statements.

A153. The group auditor may consider the engagement team’s exercise of professional skepticism when evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of audit evidence obtained. For example, the group auditor may consider whether matters such as those described in paragraph A17 have inappropriately led the engagement team to:

xObtain audit evidence that is easier to access without giving appropriate consideration to itsrelevance and reliability:

xObtain less persuasive evidence than is necessary in the circumstances; or

xDesign and perform audit procedures in a manner that is biased towards obtaining evidence that iscorroborative or excluding evidence that is contradictory.

A154. SLAuS 220 (Revised)89 requires the engagement partner to determine, on or before the date of the auditor’s report, through review of audit documentation and discussion with the engagement team, that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained to support the conclusions reached and for the auditor’s report to be issued. Information that may be relevant to the group auditor’s evaluation of the audit evidence obtained from the work performed by component auditors depends on the facts and circumstances of the group audit, and may include:

xThe communications from the component auditors required by paragraph 45, including the overallfindings or conclusions of the component auditors on the work performed for purposes of the groupaudit;

88SLAuS 330, paragraph 18

89SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 32

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 53A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xOther communications from the component auditors throughout the group audit, including thoserequired by paragraph 32; and

xThe group auditor’s direction and supervision of the component auditors, and review of their work,including, as applicable, the group auditor’s review of additional component auditor auditdocumentation in accordance with paragraph 47.

A155. In some circumstances, an overall summary memorandum describing the work performed and the results thereof may provide a basis on its own for the group auditor to conclude that the work performed and audit evidence obtained by the component auditor is sufficient for purposes of the group audit. This may be the case, for example, when the component auditor has been requested to perform specific further audit procedures as identified and communicated by the group auditor.

Evaluating the Effect on the Group Audit Opinion (Ref: Para. 52)

A156. The group engagement partner’s evaluation may include a consideration of whether corrected and uncorrected misstatements communicated by component auditors indicate a systemic issue (e.g., regarding transactions subject to common accounting policies or common controls) that may affect other components.

Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 53)

A157. Although component auditors may perform work on the financial information of the components for the group audit and as such are responsible for their overall findings or conclusions, the group engagement partner or the group engagement partner’s firm is responsible for the group audit opinion.

A158. When the group audit opinion is modified because the group auditor was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence in relation to the financial information of one or more components, the Basis for Qualified Opinion or Basis for Disclaimer of Opinion section in the auditor’s report on the group financial statements describes the reasons for that inability.90 In some circumstances, a reference to a component auditor may be necessary to adequately describe the reasons for the modified opinion, for example, when the component auditor is unable to perform or complete the work requested on the component financial information due to circumstances beyond the control of component management.

A160. SLAuS 24091 contains requirements and guidance on the communication of fraud to management and, when management may be involved in the fraud, to those charged with governance.

A161. Group management may need to keep certain material sensitive information confidential. Examples of matters that may be significant to the financial statements of the component of which component management may be unaware include the following:

xPotential litigation.xPlans for abandonment of material operating assets.xSubsequent events.

90SLAuS 705 (Revised), paragraphs 20 and 2491SLAuS 240, paragraphs 41–43

54A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xSignificant legal agreements.

A162. Group management may inform the group auditor about non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with laws or regulations in entities or business units within the group. Paragraph A87 provides guidance for the group engagement partner in these circumstances.

Communication with Those Charged with Governance of the Group (Ref: Para. 57)

A163. The matters the group auditor communicates to those charged with governance of the group may include those brought to the attention of the group auditor by component auditors that the group auditor judges to be significant to the responsibilities of those charged with governance of the group. Communication with those charged with governance of the group may take place at various times during the group audit. For example, the matter referred to in paragraph 57(a) may be communicated after the group auditor has determined the work to be performed on the financial information of the components. On the other hand, the matter referred to in paragraph 57(b) may be communicated at the end of the audit, and the matters referred to in paragraph 57(c)–(d) may be communicated when they occur.

A164. SLAuS 260 (Revised)92 requires the auditor to communicate with those charged with governance an overview of the planned scope and timing of the audit. For a group audit, this communication helps those charged with governance understand the group auditor’s determination of the components at which audit work will be performed, including whether certain of the group’s entities or business units will be considered together as a component, and the planned involvement of component auditors. This communication also helps to enable a mutual understanding of and discussion about the group and its environment (see paragraph 30) and areas, if any, in which those charged with governance may request the group auditor to undertake additional procedures.

Communication of Identified Deficiencies in Internal Control (Ref: Para. 58)

A165. The group auditor is responsible for determining, on the basis of the audit work performed, whether one or more identified deficiencies, individually or in combination, constitute significant deficiencies.93 The group auditor may request input from the component auditor about whether an identified deficiency or combination of deficiencies at the component is a significant deficiency in internal control.

Documentation (Ref: Para. 59)

A166. Other SLAuSs contain specific documentation requirements that are intended to clarify the application of SLAuS 230 in the particular circumstances of those other SLAuSs. The Appendix to SLAuS 230 lists other SLAuSs that contain specific documentation requirements and guidance.

A167. The audit documentation for the group audit supports the group auditor’s evaluation in accordance with paragraph 51 as to whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained on which to base the group audit opinion. Also see paragraph A154.

A168. The audit documentation for the group audit comprises:xThe documentation in the group auditor’s file; and

92SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraph 15

93SLAuS 265, paragraph 8

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 55A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xThe separate documentation in the respective component auditor files relating to the workperformed by the component auditors for purposes of the group audit (i.e., component auditor auditdocumentation).

A169. The final assembly and retention of the audit documentation for a group audit is subject to the policies or procedures of the group auditor’s firm in accordance with SLSQM 1.94 The group auditor may provide specific instructions to component auditors regarding the assembly and retention of the documentation of work performed by them for purposes of the group audit.

Basis for the Group Auditor’s Determination of Components (Ref: Para: 59(b))

A170. The basis for the group auditor’s determination of components may be documented in various ways, including, for example, documentation related to the fulfillment of the requirements in paragraphs 22, 33 and 57(a) of this SLAuS.

Basis for the Group Auditor’s Determination of the Competence and Capabilities of Component Auditors(Ref: Para: 59(d))

A171. SLSQM 195 provides guidance on matters that the firm’s policies or procedures may address regarding the competence and capabilities of the engagement team members. Such policies or procedures may describe or provide guidance about how to document the determination of the competence and capabilities of the engagement team, including component auditors. For example, the confirmation obtained from the component auditor in accordance with paragraph 24 may include information about the component auditor’s relevant industry experience. The group auditor also may ask for confirmation that the component auditor has sufficient time to perform the assigned audit procedures.

Documentation of the Direction and Supervision of Component Auditors and the Review of Their Work (Ref:Para. 59(f))

A172. As described in paragraph A75, the approach to direction, supervision and review in a group audit will be tailored by the group auditor based on the facts and circumstances of the engagement, and will generally include a combination of addressing the group auditor’s firm policies or procedures and responses specific to the group audit. Such policies or procedures may also describe or provide guidance about the documentation of the group auditor’s direction and supervision of the engagement team and the review of their work.

A173. SLAuS 30096 requires the auditor to develop an audit plan that includes a description of the nature, timing and extent of the planned direction and supervision of engagement team members and the review of their work. When component auditors are involved, the extent of such descriptions will often vary by component, recognizing that the planned nature, timing and extent of direction and supervision of component auditors, and review of their work, may be influenced by the matters described in paragraph A51.

94SLSQM 1, paragraphs 31(f) and A83–A85

95SLSQM 1, paragraph A9696SLAUS300, paragraph 9

56A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A174. The group auditor’s documentation of the direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work may include, for example:xRequired communications with component auditors, including instructions issued and otherconfirmations required by this SLAuS.

xThe rationale for the selection of visits to component auditor sites, attendees at meetings and thenature of the matters discussed.

xMatters discussed in meetings with component auditors or component management.

xThe rationale for the group auditor’s determination of component auditor audit documentationselected for review.

xChanges in the planned nature and extent of involvement in the work of component auditors, andthe reasons why (e.g., assigning more experienced engagement team members in areas of the auditthat are more complex or subjective than initially anticipated).

A175. Paragraph 47 requires the group auditor to determine whether, and the extent to which it is necessary to review additional component auditor audit documentation. Paragraphs A148–A149 provide guidance for the group auditor in making this determination.

A176. Component auditor audit documentation ordinarily need not be replicated in the group auditor’s audit file. However, the group auditor may decide to summarize, replicate or retain copies of certain component auditor documentation in the group auditor’s audit file to supplement the description of a particular matter in communications from the component auditor, including the matters required to be communicated by this SLAuS. Examples of such component auditor documentation may include:xA listing or summary of the significant judgments made by the component auditor, and theconclusions reached thereon, that are relevant to the group audit;

xMatters that may need to be communicated to those charged with governance of the group; or

xMatters that may be determined to be key audit matters to be communicated in the auditor’s reporton the group financial statements.

A177. When required by law or regulation, certain component auditor documentation may need to be included in the group auditor’s audit file, for example, to respond to the request of a regulatory authority to review documentation related to work performed by a component auditor.

A178. Policies or procedures established by the firm in accordance with the firm’s system of quality management, or resources provided by the firm or a network, may assist the group auditor in documenting the direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work. For example, an electronic audit tool may be used to facilitate communications between the group auditor and component auditors. The electronic audit tool also may be used for audit documentation, including providing information about the reviewer(s) and the date(s) and extent of their review.

Additional Considerations When Access to Component Auditor Audit Documentation is Restricted (Ref: Para. 59)

A179. Audit documentation for a group audit may present some additional complexities or challenges in certain circumstances. This may be the case, for example, when law or regulation restrict the component

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 57A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

auditor from providing documentation outside of its jurisdiction, or when war, civil unrest or outbreaks of disease restrict access to relevant component auditor audit documentation.

A180. The group auditor may be able to overcome such restrictions by, for example:

xVisiting the location of the component auditor, or meeting with the component auditor in a locationdifferent from where the component auditor is located, to review the component auditor’s auditdocumentation;

xReviewing the relevant audit documentation remotely through the use of technology, when notprohibited by law or regulation;

xRequesting the component auditor to prepare and provide a memorandum that addresses therelevant information and holding discussions with the component auditor, if necessary, to discussthe contents of the memorandum; or

xDiscussing with the component auditor the procedures performed, the evidence obtained and theconclusions reached by the component auditor.

It is a matter of professional judgment whether one or more of the actions described above may be sufficient to overcome the restrictions depending on the facts and circumstances of the group audit.

A181. When access to component auditor audit documentation is restricted, the group auditor’s documentation nonetheless needs to comply with the requirements of the SLAuSs, including those relating to the documentation of the nature, timing and extent of the group auditor’s direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of their work. The guidance in paragraphs A148–A149 may be helpful in determining the extent of the group auditor’s review of the component auditor audit documentation in these circumstances. Paragraphs A176 and A177 provide examples of circumstances in which certain component auditor audit documentation may be included in the group auditor’s audit file.

A182. If the group auditor is unable to overcome restrictions on access to the component auditor audit documentation, the group auditor may need to consider whether a scope limitation exists that may require a modification to the opinion on the group financial statements. See paragraph A45.

58A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Appendix 1

(Ref: Para. A45)

Illustration of Independent Auditor’s Report When the Group Auditor Is Not Able to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence on Which to Base the Group Audit Opinion

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of an entity other than alisted entity using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entitywith subsidiaries (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).xThe consolidated financial statements are prepared by management of the entity inaccordance with IFRSs (a general purpose framework).xThe terms of the audit engagement reflect the description of management’sresponsibility for the consolidated financial statements in SLAuS210.xThe group auditor is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence relating toa component accounted for by the equity method (recognized at $15 million in thestatement of financial position, which reflects total assets of $60 million) because thegroup auditor did not have access to the accounting records, management, or auditorof the component.xThe group auditor has read the audited financial statements of the component as atDecember 31, 20X1, including the auditor’s report thereon, and considered relatedfinancial information kept by group management in relation to the component.xIn the group engagement partner’s judgment, the effect on the group financialstatements of this inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence is materialbut not pervasive.1

xThe CA SRI LANKACode comprises all of the relevant ethical requirements that applyto the audit.xBased on the audit evidence obtained, the auditor has concluded that a materialuncertainty does not exist related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubton the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with SLAuS570(Revised).xThe auditor is not required, and has otherwise not decided, to communicate key auditmatters in accordance with SLAuS701.2

xThe auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’sreport and the qualified opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affectsthe other information.xThose responsible for oversight of the consolidated financial statements differ fromthose responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.xIn addition to the audit of the consolidated financial statements, the auditor has otherreporting responsibilities required under local law.

1If, in the group engagement partner’s judgment, the effect on the group financial statements of the inability to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence is material and pervasive, the group engagement partner would disclaim an opinion in accordance with SLAuS 705 (Revised).

2SLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 59A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]

Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements3

Qualified Opinion

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of ABC Company and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including material accounting policy information.

In our opinion, except for the possible effects of the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion section of our report, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects (or give a true and fair view of), the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 20X1, and (of) its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.

Basis for Qualified Opinion

ABC Company’s investment in XYZ Company, a foreign associate acquired during the year and accounted for by the equity method, is carried at $15 million on the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 20X1, and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income of $1 million is included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended. We were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the carrying amount of ABC’s investment in XYZ as at December 31, 20X1 and ABC’s share of XYZ’s net income for the year because we were denied access to the financial information, management, and the auditors of XYZ. Consequently, we were unable to determine whether any adjustments to these amounts were necessary.

We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Sri Lanka Independence Standards) (CA Sri Lanka Code), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the CA Sri Lanka Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified audit opinion.

Other Information [or another title if appropriate such as “Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon”]

[Reporting in accordance with the reporting requirements in SLAuS 720 (Revised)4 – see Illustration 6 in Appendix 2 of SLAuS 720 (Revised). The last paragraph of the Other Information section in Illustration 6

3The sub-title, “Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title, “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.

4SLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information

60A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

would be customized to describe the specific matter giving rise to the qualified opinion that also affects the other information.]

Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements5

[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised)6 – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).]

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised). The last two paragraphs which are applicable for audits of listed entities only would not be included.]

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements

[Reporting in accordance with SLAuS 700 (Revised) – see Illustration 2 in SLAuS 700 (Revised).]

[Signature in the name of the audit firm, the personal name of the auditor, or both, as appropriate for the particular jurisdiction]

[Auditor Address]

[Date]

5Throughout these illustrative auditor’s reports, the terms management and those charged with governance may need to be replaced by another term that is appropriate in the context of the legal framework in the particular jurisdiction.

6SLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 61A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Appendix 2 (Ref Para. A88)

Understanding the Group’s System of Internal Control

1.This appendix provides examples of matters related to internal control that may be helpful in obtaining anunderstanding of the system of internal control in the context of a group environment, and expands onhow SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019)1 is to be applied in relation to an audit of group financial statements. Theexamples may not be relevant to every group audit engagement and the list of examples is not necessarilycomplete.

Control Environment

The group auditor’s understanding of the control environment may include matters such as the following:

xThe structure of the governance and management functions across the group, and groupmanagement’s oversight responsibilities, including arrangements for assigning authority andresponsibility to management of entities or business units in the group.

xHow oversight over the group’s system of internal control by those charged with governance isstructured and organized.

xHow ethical and behavioral standards are communicated and reinforced in practice across the group,(e.g., group-wide programs, such as codes of conduct and fraud prevention programs).

xThe consistency of policies and procedures across the group, including a group financial reportingprocedures manual.

The Group’s Risk Assessment Process

3.The group auditor’s understanding of the group’s risk assessment process may include matters such asgroup management’s risk assessment process, that is, the process for identifying, analyzing and managingbusiness risks, including the risk of fraud, that may result in material misstatement of the group financialstatements. It may also include an understanding of how sophisticated the group’s risk assessment processis and the involvement of entities and business units in this process.

The Group’s Process to Monitor the System of Internal Control

4.The group auditor’s understanding of the group’s process to monitor the system of internal control mayinclude matters such as monitoring of controls, including how the controls are monitored across the groupand, when relevant, activities of the internal audit function across the group, including its nature,responsibilities and activities in respect of monitoring of controls at entities or business units in the group.SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013)2 requires the auditor to evaluate the extent to which the internal auditfunction’s organizational status and relevant policies and procedures support the objectivity of internal

1SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), Appendix 3

2SLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using the Work of Internal Auditors, paragraph 15

62A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

auditors, the level of competence of the internal audit function, and whether the internal audit function applies a systematic and disciplined approach, including quality control.

The Information System and Communication

5.The group auditor’s understanding of the group’s information system and communication may includematters such as the following:

xThe extent of centralization in the group’s IT environment and the commonality of IT applications,IT processes and IT infrastructure.

xGroup management’s monitoring of operations and the financial results of entities or business unitsin the group, including regular reporting routines, which enables group management to monitorperformance against budgets, and to take appropriate action.

xMonitoring, controlling, reconciling, and eliminating intra-group transactions and unrealized profits,and intra-group account balances at group level.

xA process for monitoring the timeliness and evaluating the accuracy and completeness of financialinformation received from entities or business units in the group.

Consolidation Process

6.The group auditor’s understanding of the consolidation process may include matters such as the following:

xMatters Relating to the Applicable Financial Reporting Framework

xThe extent to which management of entities or business units in the group have an understanding ofthe applicable financial reporting framework.

xThe process for identifying and accounting for entities or business units in the group in accordancewith the applicable financial reporting framework.

xThe process for identifying reportable segments for segment reporting in accordance with theapplicable financial reporting framework.

xThe process for identifying related party relationships and related party transactions for reporting inaccordance with the applicable financial reporting framework.

xThe accounting policies applied to the group financial statements, changes from those of the previousfinancial year, and changes resulting from new or revised standards under the applicable financialreporting framework.

xThe procedures for dealing with entities or business units in the group with financial year-endsdifferent from the group’s year-end.

Matters Relating to the Consolidation Process

xGroup management’s process for obtaining an understanding of the accounting policies used byentities or business units in the group, and, when applicable, ensuring that uniform accounting policiesare used to prepare the financial information of the entities or business units in the group for the groupfinancial statements, and that differences in accounting policies are identified, and adjusted whenrequired in terms of the applicable financial reporting framework. Uniform accounting policies arethe specific principles, bases, conventions, rules, and practices adopted by the group, based on the

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 63A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

applicable financial reporting framework, that the entities or business units in the group use to report similar transactions consistently. These policies are ordinarily described in the financial reporting procedures manual and reporting package issued by group management.

xGroup management’s process for ensuring complete, accurate and timely financial reporting by theentities or business units in the group for the consolidation.

xThe process for translating the financial information of foreign entities or business units in the groupinto the currency of the group financial statements.

xHow the group’s IT environment is organized for the consolidation and the policies that define theflows of information in the consolidation process, including the IT applications involved.

xGroup management’s process for obtaining information on subsequent events.

Matters Relating to Consolidation Adjustments and Reclassifications:

xThe process for recording consolidation adjustments, including the preparation, authorization andprocessing of related journal entries, and the experience of personnel responsible for theconsolidation.

xThe consolidation adjustments required by the applicable financial reporting framework.

xThe business rationale for the events and transactions that gave rise to the consolidation adjustments.

xFrequency, nature and size of transactions between entities or business units in the group.

xThe procedures for monitoring, controlling, reconciling and eliminating intra-group transactions andunrealized profits, and intra-group account balances.

xSteps taken to arrive at the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, procedures for amortizinggoodwill (when applicable), and impairment testing of goodwill, in accordance with the applicablefinancial reporting framework.

xArrangements with a majority owner or minority interests regarding losses incurred by an entity orbusiness unit in the group (e.g., an obligation of the minority interest to make good such losses).

Control Activities

7.The group auditor’s understanding of the control activities component may include matters such as thefollowing:

xThe commonality of information processing controls and general IT controls for all or part of thegroup.

xThe extent of the commonality of the design of controls for all or part of the group that address risksof material misstatement of the group financial statements at the assertion level.

xThe extent to which commonly designed controls have been implemented consistently for all or partof the group.

64A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Appendix 3

(Ref Para. A112)

Examples of Events or Conditions that May Give Rise to Risks of Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements

The following are examples of events (including transactions) and conditions that may indicate the existence of risks of material misstatement of the group financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, including with respect to the consolidation process. The examples provided by inherent risk factor cover a broad range of events and conditions; however, not all events and conditions are relevant to every group audit engagement and the list of examples is not exhaustive. The events and conditions have been categorized by the inherent risk factor that may have the greatest effect in the circumstances. Importantly, due to the interrelationships among inherent risk factors, the example events and conditions also are likely to be subject to, or affected by, other inherent risk factors to varying degree. Also see SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), Appendix 2.

Inherent Risk FactorExamples of Events or Conditions that May Give Rise to the Existence of Risks of Material Misstatement of the Group Financial Statements at the Assertion Level:

ComplexityxThe existence of complex transactions that are accounted for in morethan one entity or business unit in the group.xThe application of accounting policies by entities or business units in thegroup that differ from those applied to the group financial statements.xAccounting measurements or disclosures that involve complex processesused by entities or business units in the group, such as accounting forcomplex financial instruments.xOperations that are subject to a high degree of complex regulation inmultiple jurisdictions, or entities or business units in the group thatoperate in multiple industries that are subject to different types ofregulation.

SubjectivityxJudgments regarding which entities or business units in the group requireincorporation of their financial information in the group financialstatements in accordance with the applicable financial reportingframework, for example, whether any special-purpose entities or non-trading entities exist and require incorporation.xJudgments regarding the correct application of the requirements of theapplicable financial reporting framework by entities or business units inthe group.

ChangexFrequent acquisitions, disposals or reorganizations.

UncertaintyxEntities or business units in the group operating in foreign jurisdictionsthat may be exposed to factors such as unexpected governmentintervention in areas such as trade and fiscal policy, and restrictions oncurrency and dividend movements; and fluctuations in exchange rates.

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 65A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Susceptibility to Misstatement Due to Management Bias or Other Fraud Risk Factors Insofar as They Affect Inherent Risk

xUnusual related party relationships and transactions.xEntities or business units in the group with different financial year-ends,which may be utilized to manipulate the timing of transactions.xPrior occurrences of unauthorized or incomplete consolidationadjustments.xAggressive tax planning within the group, or large cash transactions withentities in tax havens.xPrior occurrences of intra-group account balances that did not balance orreconcile on consolidation.xLarge or unusual cash transfers within the group, particularly to newlyincorporated entities or business units operating in locations with asignificant or heighted fraud risk

Indicators that the control environment, the group’s risk assessment process or the group’s process to monitor the group’s system of internal control are not appropriate to the group’s circumstances, considering the nature and complexity of the group, and do not provide an appropriate foundation for the other components of the group’s system of internal control, include:

xPoor corporate governance structures, including decision making processes that are not transparent.

xNon-existent or ineffective controls over the group’s financial reporting process, including inadequategroup management information on monitoring of operations and financial results of entities or businessunits in the group.

66A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Conforming and Consequential Amendments Arising from Proposed SLAuS 600 (Revised)

Note The following are conforming amendments to other SLAuSs as a result of the approval of SLAuS 600(Revised). These amendments will become effective at the same time as SLAuS 600 (Revised) and are shown with marked changes from the latest approved versions of the SLAuSs that are amended. The footnote numbers within these amendments do not align with the SLAuSs that are amended, and reference should be made to those SLAuSs.

SLSQM 1 – QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR FIRMS THAT PERFORM AUDITS OR REVIEWS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, OR OTHER ASSURANCE OR RELATED SERVICES ENGAGEMENTS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Resources (Ref Para. 32)

…

Human Resources

…

Engagement Team Members Assigned to Each Engagement (Ref Para. 32(d))

…

A96. SLAuS 220 (Revised)1 addresses the responsibility of the engagement partner to determine that members of the engagement team, and any auditor’s external experts and internal auditors who provide direct assistance who are not part of the engagement team, collectively have the appropriate competence and capabilities, including sufficient time, to perform the engagement. SLAuS 600 (Revised)2 expands on how SLAuS 220 (Revised) is to be applied in relation to an audit of group financial statements. The responses designed and implemented by the firm to address the competence and capabilities of engagement team members assigned to the engagement may include policies or procedures that address:

xInformation that may be obtained by the engagement partner and factors to consider in determiningthat the engagement team members assigned to the engagement, including those assigned by thefirm’s network, another network firm or service provider, have the competence and capabilities toperform the engagement.

xHow concerns about the competence and capabilities of engagement team members, in particularthose assigned by the firm’s network, another network firm or service provider, may be resolved.

…

Information and Communication (Ref Para. 33)

…

1SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 26

2SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations–Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragraph 2619

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 67A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Communication Within the Firm (Ref Para. 33(b), 33(c))

A112. The firm may recognize and reinforce the responsibility of personnel and engagement teams to exchange information with the firm and with one another by establishing communication channels to facilitate communication across the firm.

Examples of communication among the firm, personnel and engagement teams

xThe firm communicates the responsibility for implementing the firm’s responses to personneland engagement teams.

xThe firm communicates changes to the system of quality management to personnel andengagement teams, to the extent that the changes are relevant to their responsibilities andenables personnel and engagement teams to take prompt and appropriate action in accordancewith their responsibilities.

xThe firm communicates information that is obtained during the firm’s acceptance andcontinuance process that is relevant to engagement teams in planning and performingengagements.

xEngagement teams communicate to the firm information about:

oThe client that is obtained during the performance of an engagement that may havecaused the firm to decline the client relationship or specific engagement had thatinformation been known prior to accepting or continuing the client relationship orspecific engagement.

oThe operation of the firm’s responses (e.g., concerns about the firm’s processes forassigning personnel to engagements), which in some cases, may indicate a deficiency inthe firm’s system of quality management.

xEngagement teams communicate information to the engagement quality reviewer orindividuals providing consultation.

xThe Ggroup engagement teamsauditor communicates matters to component auditors inaccordance with the firm’s policies or procedures, including matters related to qualitymanagement at the engagement level.

xThe individual(s) assigned operational responsibility for compliance with independencerequirements communicates to relevant personnel and engagement teams changes in theindependence requirements and the firm’s policies or procedures to address such changes.

…

68A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

SLSQM 2 – ENGAGEMENT QUALITY REVIEWS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Performance of the Engagement Quality Review (Ref Para. 24–27)

…

Procedures Performed by the Engagement Quality Reviewer (Ref Para. 25–27)

…

Group Audit Considerations

A32. The performance of an engagement quality review for an audit of group financial statements may

involve additional considerations for the individual appointed as the engagement quality reviewer for the group audit, depending on the size and complexity of the group. Paragraph 21(a) requires the firm’s policies or procedures to require the engagement quality reviewer to take overall responsibility for the performance of the engagement quality review. In doing so, for larger and more complex group audits, the group engagement quality reviewer may need to discuss significant matters and significant judgments with key members of the engagement team other than the group engagement teamauditor (e.g., those responsible for performing audit procedures on the financial information of a component auditor). In these circumstances, the engagement quality reviewer may be assisted by individuals in accordance with paragraph 20. The guidance in paragraph A22 may be helpful when the engagement quality reviewer for the group audit is using assistants.

…

SLAuS 220 (REVISED) – QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Scope of this SLAUS (Ref Para. 1)

A1. This SLAuS applies to all audits of financial statements, including audits of group financial statements. SLAuS 600 (Revised)3 deals with special considerations that apply to an audit of group financial statements and when component auditors are involved. SLAuS 600 (Revised), adapted as necessary in the circumstances, may also be useful in an audit of financial statements when the engagement team includes individuals from another firm. For example, SLAuS 600 (Revised) may be useful when involving such an individual to attend a physical inventory count, inspect property, plant and equipment, or perform audit procedures at a shared service center at a remote location.

…

3SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 69A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Definitions

Engagement Team (Ref: Para. 12(d))

…

A21A.When joint auditors conduct an audit, the joint engagement partners and their engagement teams collectively constitute the “engagement partner” and “engagement team” for the purposes of the SLAuSs. This SLAuS does not, however, deal with the relationship between joint auditors or the work that one joint auditor performs in relation to the work of the other joint auditor.

…

The Application of Firm Policies or Procedures by Members of the Engagement Team (Ref Para. 9,12(d),17)

…

A24. In particular, the firm’s policies or procedures may require the firm or the engagement partner to take different actions from those applicable to personnel when obtaining an understanding of whether an individual from another firm:

xHas the appropriate competence and capabilities to perform the audit engagement. For example,the individual would not be subject to the firm’s recruitment and training processes and thereforethe firm’s policies or procedures may state that this determination can be made through otheractions such as obtaining information from the other firm or a licensing or registration body.Paragraphs 2619 and A59–A6438 of SLAuS 600 (Revised) contain guidance on obtaining anunderstanding of the competence and capabilities of component auditors.

xUnderstands the ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit engagement. For example,the individual would not be subject to the firm’s training in respect of the firm’s policies orprocedures for relevant ethical requirements. The firm’s policies or procedures may state that thisunderstanding is obtained through other actions such as providing information, manuals, or guidescontaining the provisions of the relevant ethical requirements applicable to the audit engagementto the individual.

xWill confirm independence. For example, individuals who are not personnel may not be able tocomplete independence declarations directly on the firm’s independence systems. The firm’spolicies or procedures may state that such individuals can provide evidence of their independencein relation to the audit engagement in other ways, such as written confirmation.

A25. When firm policies or procedures require specific activities to be undertaken in certain circumstances (e.g., consultation on a particular matter), it may be necessary for the firm’s related policies or procedures to be communicated to individuals who are not personnel. Such individuals are then able to alert the engagement partner if the circumstance arises, and this enables the engagement partner to comply with the firm’s policies or procedures. For example, in a group audit engagement, if a component auditor is performing audit procedures on the financial information of a component and identifies a difficult or contentious matter that is relevant to the group financial statements and subject

70A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

to consultation4 under the group auditor’s policies or procedures, the component auditor is able to alert the group engagement teamauditor about the matter.

…

Relevant Ethical Requirements, Including Those Related to Independence (Ref Para. 16–21)

Relevant Ethical Requirements (Ref Para. 1, 16–21)

A38. SLAuS 2005 requires that the auditor comply with relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence, relating to financial statement audit engagements. Relevant ethical requirements may vary depending on the nature and circumstances of the engagement. For example, certain requirements related to independence may be applicable only when performing audits of listed entities. SLAuS 600 (Revised) includes additional requirements and guidance to those in this SLAuS regarding communications about relevant ethical requirements with component auditors.

…

Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Audit Engagements (Ref: Para. 22–24)

…

A53. Information obtained during the acceptance and continuance process may assist the engagement partner in complying with the requirements of this SLAuS and making informed decisions about appropriate courses of action. Such information may include:

xInformation about the size, complexity and nature of the entity, including whether it is a groupaudit, the industry in which it operates and the applicable financial reporting framework;

xThe entity’s timetable for reporting, such as at interim and final stages;

xIn relation to group audits, the nature of the control relationships between the parent and its entitiesand business units; and

xWhether there have been changes in the entity or in the industry in which the entity operates sincethe previous audit engagement that may affect the nature of resources required, as well as themanner in which the work of the engagement team will be directed, supervised and reviewed.

A54. Information obtained during acceptance and continuance may also be relevant in complying with the requirements of other SLAuSs, as well as this SLAuS, for example with respect to:

xEstablishing an understanding of the terms of the audit engagement, as required by SLAuS 210;6

xIdentifying and assessing risks of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, inaccordance with SLAuS 315 (Revised 2019) and SLAuS 240;7

xUnderstanding the group, its components and itstheir environments, in the case of an audit of groupfinancial statements in accordance with SLAuS 600 (Revised), and directing, supervising andreviewing the work of component auditors;

4See paragraph 35.

5SLAuS 200, paragraphs 14 and A16‒A19

6SLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements, paragraph 9

7SLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 71A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xDetermining whether, and how, to involve an auditor’s expert in accordance with SLAuS 620; and

xThe entity’s governance structure in accordance with SLAuS 260 (Revised)8 and SLAuS 265.9

…

Engagement Resources (Ref: Para. 25–28)

…

A60. Resources for an audit engagement are primarily assigned or made available by the firm, although there may be circumstances when the engagement team directly obtains resources for the audit engagement. For example, this may be the case when a component auditor is required by statute, regulation or for another reason to express an audit opinion on the financial statements of a component, and the component auditor is also appointed by component management to perform audit procedures on behalf of the group engagement teamauditor. In such circumstances, the firm’s policies or procedures may require the engagement partner to take different actions, such as requesting information from the component auditor, to determine whether sufficient and appropriate resources are assigned or madeavailable.…

Insufficient or Inappropriate Resources (Ref: Para. 27)

…

A76. In an audit of group financial statements, when there are insufficient or inappropriate resources in

relation to work being performed at a component by a component auditor, the engagement partner may discuss the matter with the component auditor, management or the firm to make sufficient and appropriate resources available.

…

Engagement Performance

…

Direction, Supervision and Review (Ref: Para. 30)

…

The Engagement Partner’s Review (Ref: Para. 30–34)

…

A92. The engagement partner exercises professional judgment in identifying the areas of significant judgment made by the engagement team. The firm’s policies or procedures may specify certain matters that are commonly expected to be significant judgments. Significant judgments in relation to the audit engagement may include matters related to the overall audit strategy and audit plan for undertaking the engagement, the execution of the engagement and the overall conclusions reached by the engagement team, for example:

8 SLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance

9 SLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance and Management

72A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xMatters related to planning the engagement, such as matters related to determining materiality.

xThe composition of the engagement team, including:

oPersonnel using expertise in a specialized area of accounting or auditing;

oThe use of personnel from service delivery centers.

xThe decision to involve an auditor’s expert, including the decision to involve an external expert.

xThe engagement team’s consideration of information obtained in the acceptance and continuanceprocess and proposed responses to that information.

xThe engagement team’s risk assessment process, including situations where consideration ofinherent risk factors and the assessment of inherent risk requires significant judgment by theengagement team. The engagement team’s consideration of related party relationships andtransactions and disclosures.

xResults of the procedures performed by the engagement team on significant areas of theengagement, for example, conclusions in respect of certain accounting estimates, accountingpolicies or going concern considerations.

xThe engagement team’s evaluation of the work performed by experts and conclusions drawntherefrom.

xIn group audit situations:

oThe proposed overall group audit strategy and group audit plan;

oDecisions about the involvement of component auditors, including how to direct and supervisethem and review their work, including, for example, when there are areas of higher assessedrisk of material misstatement of the financial information of a component; and

oThe evaluation of work performed by component auditors and the conclusions drawntherefrom.

xHow matters affecting the overall audit strategy and audit plan have been addressed.

xThe significance and disposition of corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified during theengagement.

xThe proposed audit opinion and matters to be communicated in the auditor’s report, for example,key audit matters, or a “Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern” paragraph.

…

SLAuS 230 – AUDIT DOCUMENTATION

…

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 73A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Appendix

(Ref: Para. 1)

Specific Audit Documentation Requirements in Other SLAuSs

This appendix identifies paragraphs in other SLAuSs that contain specific documentation requirements. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs.

xSLAuS 210, Agreeing the Terms of Audit Engagements – paragraphs 10–12

xSLAuS 220 (Revised), Quality Management for an Audit of Financial Statements – paragraph 41

xSLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements –paragraphs 45–48

xSLAuS 250 (Revised), Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements –paragraph 30

xSLAuS 260 (Revised), Communication with Those Charged with Governance – paragraph 23

xSLAuS 300, Planning an Audit of Financial Statements – paragraph 12

xSLAuS 315 (Revised 2019), Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement – paragraph38

xSLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit – paragraph 14

xSLAuS 330, The Auditor’s Responses to Assessed Risks – paragraphs 28–30

xSLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit – paragraph 15

xSLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures – paragraph 39

xSLAuS 550, Related Parties – paragraph 28

xSLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including theWork of Component Auditors) – paragraph 59570

xSLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using the Work of Internal Auditors – paragraph 36–37

xSLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information – paragraph 25

…

SLAuS 240 – THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO FRAUD IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

74A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Responsibility for the Prevention and Detection of Fraud

Responsibilities of the Auditor (Ref: Para. 9)

A6.Law, regulation or relevant ethical requirements may require the auditor to perform additional procedures and take further actions. For example, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Sri Lanka Independence Standards) (CA Sri Lanka Code) requires the auditor to take steps to respond to identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations and determine whether further action is needed. Such steps may include the communication of identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations to other between auditors within the engagement team a group, including a group engagement partner, component auditors, or other auditors performing work at components entities or business units of a group for purposes other than the audit of the group financial statements.10

…

SLAuS 250 (REVISED) – CONSIDERATION OF LAWS AND REGULATIONS IN AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Responsibility for Compliance with Laws and Regulations (Ref: Para. 3–9)

…

Responsibility of the Auditor

…

Additional Responsibilities Established by Law, Regulation or Relevant Ethical Requirements (Ref: Para. 9)

A8.Law, regulation or relevant ethical requirements may require the auditor to perform additional procedures and take further actions. For example, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Sri Lanka Independence Standards) (CA Sri Lanka Code) requires the auditor to take steps to respond to identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations and determine whether further action is needed. Such steps may include the communication of identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations to other between auditors within the engagement team a group, including a group engagement partner, component auditors, or other auditors performing work at components entities or business units of a group for purposes other than the audit of the group financial statements11.…

SLAuS 260 (REVISED) – COMMUNICATION WITH THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE

…

10 See, for example, paragraphs R360.16–360.18 A1 of the CA Sri Lanka Code.

11 See, for example, paragraphs R360.16–360.18 A1 of the CA Sri Lanka Code.

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 75A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Those Charged with Governance (Ref: Para. 11)

….

A4.SLAuS 600 (Revised) includes specific matters to be communicated by the group auditors with those charged with governance of the group.12 The matters communicated may include those brought to the attention of the group auditor by component auditors that the group auditor judges to be significant to the responsibilities of those charged with governance of the group. Component auditors also may communicate matters to those charged with governance of the component.13 In those circumstances, the appropriate person(s) with whom the component auditor communicates depends on the engagement circumstances and the matter to be communicated. In some cases, a number of components entities or business units may be conducting the same businesses within the same system of internal control and using the same accounting practices. Where those charged with governance of those components entities or business units are the same (e.g., common board of directors), duplication may be avoided by dealing with these components entities or business units concurrently for the purpose of communication.

…

Appendix 1

(Ref: Para. 3)

Specific Requirements in SLSQM 1 and Other SLAuSs that Refer to Communications with Those Charged with Governance

This appendix identifies paragraphs in SLSQM 114 and other SLAuSs that require communication of specific matters with those charged with governance. The list is not a substitute for considering the requirements and related application and other explanatory material in SLAuSs.

xSLSQM 1, Quality Management for Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements orOther Assurance or Related Services Engagements – paragraph 34(e)

xSLAuS 240, The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Fraud in an Audit of Financial Statements –paragraphs 22, 39(c)(i) and 41‒43

xSLAuS 250 (Revised), Consideration of Laws and Regulations in an Audit of Financial Statements –paragraphs 15, 20 and 23–25xSLAuS 265, Communicating Deficiencies in Internal Control to Those Charged with Governance andManagement – paragraph 9

xSLAuS 450, Evaluation of Misstatements Identified during the Audit – paragraphs 12-13

12SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragraph 5749

13SLAuS 600 (Revised), paragraph 45(i)

14SLSQM 1, Quality Management for Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements

76A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xSLAuS 505, External Confirmations – paragraph 9

xSLAuS 510, Initial Audit Engagements―Opening Balances – paragraph 7

xSLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures – paragraph 38

xSLAuS 550, Related Parties – paragraph 27

xSLAuS 560, Subsequent Events – paragraphs 7(b)-(c), 10(a), 13(b), 14(a) and 17

xSLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern – paragraph 25

xSLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations―Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including theWork of Component Auditors) – paragraph 5749

xSLAuS 610 (Revised 2013), Using the Work of Internal Auditors – paragraphs 20 and 31

xSLAuS 700 (Revised), Forming an Opinion and Reporting on Financial Statements – paragraph 46

xSLAuS 701, Communicating Key Audit Matters in the Independent Auditor’s Report – paragraph 17

xSLAuS 705 (Revised), Modifications to the Opinion in the Independent Auditor’s Report – paragraphs 12,14, 23 and 30

xSLAuS 706 (Revised), Emphasis of Matter Paragraphs and Other Matter Paragraphs in the IndependentAuditor’s Report – paragraph 12

xSLAuS 710, Comparative Information - Corresponding Figures and Comparative Financial Statements –paragraph 18

xSLAuS 720 (Revised), The Auditor’s Responsibilities Relating to Other Information – paragraphs 17―19

…

SLAuS 300 – PLANNING AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

Requirements

…

Planning Activities

…

10A. The engagement partner shall review the overall audit strategy and audit plan.

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 77A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Planning Activities

The Overall Audit Strategy (Ref: Para. 7–8)

A8. The process of establishing the overall audit strategy, subject to the completion of the auditor’s risk assessment procedures, may include such matters as:

xThe nature of resources (human, technological or intellectual) to be deployed for specific auditareas. For example, the deployment of experienced team members for high risk areas, or theassignment of experts to address complex matters;

xThe amount of resources to be allocated to specific audit areas. For example, the number of teammembers assigned to attend the physical inventory count at multiple locations, the nature andextent of direction and supervision of component auditors and the review of other auditors’theirwork in the case of group audits, or the audit budget in hours to allocate to high risk areas;

xWhen these resources are to be deployed, such as whether at an interim audit stage or at keycutoff dates; and

xHow such resources are directed, supervised or used. For example, when team briefing anddebriefing meetings are expected to be held, how engagement partner and manager reviews areexpected to take place (for example, on-site or off-site).

…

Appendix

(Ref: Para. 7–8, A8–A11)

Considerations in Establishing the Overall Audit Strategy

This appendix provides examples of matters the auditor may consider in managing quality at the engagement level. Many of these matters will influence the auditor’s overall audit strategy and detailed audit plan. Theexamples provided cover a broad range of matters applicable to many engagements. While some of the matters referred to below may be required by other SLAuSs, not all matters are relevant to every audit engagement and the list is not necessarily complete.

Characteristics of the Engagement…

xThe expected audit coverage scope, including the number and locations of components to be included atwhich audit work is expected to be performed for purposes of a group audit, and the extent to whichcomponent auditors will be involved.

xThe nature of the control relationships between a parent and its components entities or business units thatdetermine how the group is to be consolidated.

xThe extent to which components are audited by other auditors.

xThe nature of the business segments to be audited, including the need for specialized knowledge.

78A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

xThe reporting currency to be used, including any need for currency translation for the financial informationaudited.

xThe requirement need for an audit of financial statements for statutory, regulatory or other reasons, auditof standalone financial statements in addition to an audit work performed for consolidation purposes of agroup audit.

…

Reporting Objectives, Timing of the Audit, and Nature of Communications

…

xCommunication with component auditors of components regarding the expected types and timing ofreports to be issued and other communications in connection with the audit work performed for purposesof the group auditof components.

xThe expected nature and timing of communications among engagement team members, including thenature and timing of team meetings and timing of the review of audit work performed.…

Significant Factors, Preliminary Engagement Activities, and Knowledge Gained on Other Engagements

xThe determination of materiality in accordance with SLAuS 32015 and, where applicable:

oThe determination of component performance materiality for components and communication thereofto component auditors in accordance with SLAuS 600 (Revised).16

oThe initial expectations about the preliminary identification of significant components and materialclasses of transactions, account balances and disclosures that may be significant.

…

SLAuS 315 (REVISED 2019) – IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING THE RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities (Ref: Para. 13–18)

A11. The risks of material misstatement to be identified and assessed include both those due to fraud and those due to error, and both are covered by this SLAuS. However, the significance of fraud is such that further requirements and guidance are included in SLAuS 240 in relation to risk assessment procedures and related activities to obtain information that is used to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement due to fraud.17 In addition, the following SLAuSs provide further requirements and guidance on identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement regarding specific matters or circumstances:

15SLAuS 320, Materiality in Planning and Performing an Audit

16SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragraphs 21–23 and 40(c)35–36

17SLAuS 240, paragraphs 12–27

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 79A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xSLAuS 540 (Revised)18 in regard to accounting estimates;

xSLAuS 550 in regard to related party relationships and transactions;

xSLAuS 570 (Revised)19 in regard to going concern; and

xSLAuS 600 (Revised)20 in regard to group financial statements

…

Engagement Team Discussion (Ref: Para. 17–18)

…

Scalability

…

A45. When an engagement is carried out by a large engagement team, such as for an audit of group financial statements, it is not always necessary or practical for the discussion to include all members in a single discussion (for example, in a multilocation audit), nor is it necessary for all the members of the engagement team to be informed of all the decisions reached in the discussion. The engagement partner may discuss matters with key members of the engagement team including, if considered appropriate, those with specific skills or knowledge, and those responsible for the work to be performed ataudits ofcomponents, while delegating discussion with others, taking into account the extent of communication considered necessary throughout the engagement team. A communications plan, agreed by the engagement partner, may be useful.

…

Identifying and Assessing the Risks of Material Misstatement (Ref: Para. 28‒37)

…

Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement at the Assertion Level

…

Significant Risks (Ref: Para. 32)

Why significant risks are determined and the implications for the audit

A218. The determination of significant risks allows for the auditor to focus more attention on those risks that are on the upper end of the spectrum of inherent risk, through the performance of certain required responses, including:

x…xSLAuS 600 (Revised) requires the group auditor to evaluate the appropriateness of the design andperformance of further audit procedures for areas of higher assessed risks of material misstatement

18 SLAuS 540 (Revised), Auditing Accounting Estimates and Related Disclosures

19 SLAuS 570 (Revised), Going Concern

20 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

80A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

of the group financial statements, or significant risks, on which a component auditor is determining the further audit procedures to be performedmore involvement by the group engagement partner if the significant risk relates to a component in a group audit and for the group engagement team to direct the work required at the component by the component auditor.21

…

SLAuS 320 – MATERIALITY IN PLANNING AND PERFORMING AN AUDIT

…

Definitions

9.For purposes of the SLAuSs, the following terms have the meanings attributed below:

(a)P, performance materiality – means tThe amount or amounts set by the auditor at less thanmateriality for the financial statements as a whole to reduce aggregation risk to an appropriatelylow level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceedsmateriality for the financial statements as a whole. If applicable, performance materiality alsorefers to the amount or amounts set by the auditor at less than the materiality level or levels forparticular classes of transactions, account balances or disclosures.

(b)Aggregation risk – The probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetectedmisstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statement as a whole.

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Determining Materiality and Performance Materiality When Planning the Audit

…

Performance Materiality (Ref: Para. 11)

A13. Planning the audit solely to detect individually material misstatements overlooks the fact that the aggregate of individually immaterial misstatements may cause the financial statements to be materially misstated, and leaves no margin for possible undetected misstatements. Performance materiality (which, as defined, is one or more amounts) is set at less than materiality for the financial statements as a whole to reduce aggregation riskreduce to an appropriately low levelto an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements in the financial statements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Similarly, performance materiality relating to a materiality level determined for a particular class of transactions, account balance or disclosure is set to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements in that particular class of transactions, account balance or disclosure exceeds the materiality level for that particular class of transactions, account balance or disclosure. The determination of performance materiality is not a simple mechanical calculation and involves the exercise of professional judgment. It is affected by the auditor’s understanding of the entity, updated during the performance of the risk assessment procedures; and the nature and extent of misstatements

21 SLAuS 600, paragraphs 30 and 3142

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 81A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

identified in previous audits and thereby the auditor’s expectations in relation to misstatements in the current period.

…

SLAuS 402 – AUDIT CONSIDERATIONS RELATING TO AN ENTITY USING A SERVICE ORGANIZATION

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Obtaining an Understanding of the Services Provided by a Service Organization, Including Internal Control

…

Further Procedures When a Sufficient Understanding Cannot Be Obtained from the User Entity (Ref: Para. 12)

…

A19. Another auditor may be used to perform procedures that will provide the necessary information about the relevant controls at the service organization related to services provided to the user entity. If a type 1 or type 2 report has been issued, the user auditor may use the service auditor to perform these procedures as the service auditor has an existing relationship with the service organization. The user auditor using the work of another auditor may find the guidance in SLAuS 220600 (Revised)22 useful as it relates to determining the competence and capabilities of the other understanding another auditor (including that auditor’s independence and professional competence), the direction and supervision involvement in the work of the other another auditor, in planning the nature, timing and extent of such the work assigned to the other auditor, and in evaluating the sufficiency and appropriateness of the audit evidence obtained.

…

SLAuS 501 – AUDIT EVIDENCE—SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS FOR SELECTED ITEMS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Inventory

Attendance at Physical Inventory Counting (Ref: Para. 4(a))…

22SLAuS 220 (Revised), Quality Management for an Audit of Financial Statements 600 Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragraph 2, states: “An auditor may find this SLAuS, adapted as necessary in the circumstances, useful when that auditor involves other auditors in the audit of financial statements that are not group financial statements …” See also paragraph 19 of SLAuS600.

82A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A3.Matters relevant in planning attendance at physical inventory counting (or in designing and performing audit procedures pursuant to paragraphs 4–8 of this SLAuS) include, for example:

xThe risks of material misstatement related to inventory.

xThe nature of the internal control related to inventory.

xWhether adequate procedures are expected to be established and proper instructions issued forphysical inventory counting.

xThe timing of physical inventory counting.

xWhether the entity maintains a perpetual inventory system.

xThe locations at which inventory is held, including the materiality of the inventory and the risks ofmaterial misstatement at different locations, in deciding at which locations attendance isappropriate. SLAuS60023 deals with the involvement of other auditors and accordingly may berelevant if such involvement is with regard to attendance of physical inventory counting at a remote location.

xWhether the assistance of an auditor’s expert is needed. SLAuS 62024 deals with the use of anauditor’s expert to assist the auditor to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence.

…

SLAuS 510 – INITIAL AUDIT ENGAGEMENTS—OPENING BALANCES

…

Appendix

…

Illustration 1:

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised)25

does not apply).

x…

…

23 SLAuS600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

24 SLAuS 620, Using the Work of an Auditor’s Expert

25 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 83A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Illustration 2:

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).

x…

…

SLAuS 550 – RELATED PARTIES

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Risk Assessment Procedures and Related Activities

…

Understanding the Entity’s Related Party Relationships and Transactions

…

The Identity of the Entity’s Related Parties (Ref: Para. 13(a))

…

A13. In the context of a group audit, SLAuS 600 (Revised) requires the group engagement teamauditor to

request component auditors to communicate on a timely basis related party relationships not previously identified by group management or the group auditor provide each component auditor with a list of related parties prepared by group management and any other related parties of which the group engagement team is aware.26 Where the entity is a component within a group, this Such information provides a useful basis for the auditor group auditor’s inquiries of management regarding the identity of the entity’s related parties.

…

Responses to the Risks of Material Misstatement Associated with Related Party Relationships and Transactions (Ref: Para. 20)

…

26SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors), paragraph 32(b)40(e)

84A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Identified Significant Related Party Transactions outside the Entity’s Normal Course of Business

Evaluating the Business Rationale of Significant Related Party Transactions (Ref: Para. 23)

A38. In evaluating the business rationale of a significant related party transaction outside the entity’s normal course of business, the auditor may consider the following:

xWhether the transaction:

oIs overly complex (for example, it may involve multiple related parties within a consolidatedgroup).

oHas unusual terms of trade, such as unusual prices, interest rates, guarantees and repaymentterms.

oLacks an apparent logical business reason for its occurrence.

oInvolves previously unidentified related parties.

oIs processed in an unusual manner.

xWhether management has discussed the nature of, and accounting for, such a transaction with thosecharged with governance.

xWhether management is placing more emphasis on a particular accounting treatment rather thangiving due regard to the underlying economics of the transaction.

If management’s explanations are materially inconsistent with the terms of the related party transaction, the auditor is required, in accordance with SLAuS 500,27 to consider the reliability of management’s explanations and representations on other significant matters.…

SLAuS 570 (REVISED) – GOING CONCERN

…Appendix

…

Illustration 1 – Unmodified Opinion When a Material Uncertainty Exists and Disclosure in the Financial Statements Is Adequate

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised)28 does not apply).

…

…

27 SLAuS 500, Audit Evidence, paragraph 11

28 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 85A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Illustration 2 – Qualified Opinion When a Material Uncertainty Exists and the Financial Statements Are Materially Misstated Due to Inadequate Disclosure

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

Audit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) does not apply).

…

…

Illustration 3 – Adverse Opinion When a Material Uncertainty Exists and Is Not Disclosed in the Financial Statements

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

Audit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) does not apply).

…

…

SLAuS 610 (REVISED 2013) – USING THE WORK OF INTERNAL AUDITORS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Determining Whether, in Which Areas, and to What Extent the Work of the Internal Audit Function Can Be Used

…

Determining the Nature and Extent of Work of the Internal Audit Function that Can Be Used

Factors Affecting the Determination of the Nature and Extent of the Work of the Internal Audit Function that Can Be Used (Ref: Para. 17–19)

…

86A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

A16. Examples of work of the internal audit function that can be used by the external auditor include the following:

xTesting of the operating effectiveness of controls.

xSubstantive procedures involving limited judgment.

xObservations of inventory counts.

xTracing transactions through the information system relevant to financial reporting.

xTesting of compliance with regulatory requirements.

xIn some circumstances, audits or reviews of the financial information of subsidiaries that are notsignificant components to the group (where this does not conflict with the requirements ofSLAuS600).29

…

Determining Whether, in Which Areas and to What Extent Internal Auditors Can Be Used to Provide Direct Assistance

Determining Whether Internal Auditors Can Be Used to Provide Direct Assistance for Purposes of the Audit (Ref: Para. 5, 26–28)

A31. In jurisdictions where the external auditor is prohibited by law or regulation from using internal auditors to provide direct assistance, it is relevant for in the circumstances of a the group audit, auditors for the group auditor to consider whether the prohibition also extends to component auditors and, if so, to address this in the communication to the component auditors.30

…

SLAuS 700 (REVISED) – FORMING AN OPINION AND REPORTING ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

Requirements

…

Auditor’s Report

…

Auditor’s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards

…

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements…

29SLAuS600, Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

30SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors, paragraph 25(a)40(b)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 87A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

39.The Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of the auditor’s reportshall further: (Ref: Para. A50)

…

(c)When SLAuS 600 (Revised)31 applies, further describe the auditor’s responsibilities in a groupaudit engagement by stating that:

(i)The auditor’s responsibilities are to plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficientappropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or businessactivities units within the group to as a basis for express forming an opinion on the groupfinancial statements;

(ii) The auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and review performance of the audit

work performed for purposes of the group audit; and

(iii) The auditor remains solely responsible for the auditor’s opinion.32

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Auditor’s Report (Ref: Para. 20)

…

Auditor’s Report for Audits Conducted in Accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards

…

Basis for Opinion (Ref: Para. 28)

…

Considerations specific to group audits

A38. In group audits for whichwhen there are multiple sources of relevant ethical requirements, including

those pertaining to independence, the reference in the auditor’s report to the jurisdiction ordinarily relates to the relevant ethical requirements that are applicable to the group engagement teamauditor. This is because, in a group audit, component auditors are also subject to ethical requirements that are relevant to the group audit.33

A39. The SLAuSs do not establish specific independence or ethical requirements for auditors, including component auditors, and thus do not extend, or otherwise override, the independence requirements of

31 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

32 SLAuS 600 (Revised), paragraph 53

33 SLAuS 600 (Revised), paragraph A56–A57, A66–A68A37

88A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

the CA Sri Lanka Code or other ethical requirements to which the group engagement teamauditor is subject, nor do the SLAuSs require that the component auditor in all cases to be subject to the same specific independence requirements that are applicable to the group engagement teamauditor. As a result, relevant ethical requirements, including those pertaining to independence, in a group audit situation may be complex. SLAuS 600 (Revised)34 provides guidance for auditors in performing work on the financial information of a component for a group audit, including those situations where the component auditor does not meet the independence requirements that are relevant to the group audit.…

Appendix

…

Illustration 1 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of a Listed Entity Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentationframework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) does not apply).x…

…

Illustration 2 – Auditor’s Report on Consolidated Financial Statements of a Listed Entity Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of a listed entity using a fairpresentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entity with subsidiaries (i.e.,SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).x…

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

To the Shareholders of ABC Company [or Other Appropriate Addressee]

Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements35

…Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements

…

34 SLAuS 600 (Revised), paragraphs 25, 2719–20

35 The sub-title “Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements” is unnecessary in circumstances when the second sub-title “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” is not applicable.

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 89A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:

…

xPlan and perform the group audit to Oobtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financialinformation of the entities or business activities within the Group to regarding the financial informationof the entities or business units within the group as a basis for express forming an opinion on theconsildatedgroup financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and reviewperformance of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsiblefor our audit opinion.

…

Illustration 3 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity Prepared in Accordance with a Fair Presentation Framework

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

Illustration 4 – Auditor’s Report on Financial Statements of an Entity Other than a Listed Entity Prepared in Accordance with a General Purpose Compliance Framework

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity requiredby law or regulation. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) does notapply).x…

…

SLAuS 701 – COMMUNICATING KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Determining Key Audit Matters (Ref: Para. 9–10)…

90A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Matters that Required Significant Auditor Attention (Ref: Para. 9)

…

A15. Various SLAuSs require specific communications with those charged with governance and others that may relate to areas of significant auditor attention. For example:

xSLAuS 260 (Revised) requires the auditor to communicate significant difficulties, if any,encountered during the audit with those charged with governance.36 The SLAuSs acknowledgepotential difficulties in relation to, for example:

oRelated party transactions,37 in particular limitations on the auditor’s ability to obtain auditevidence that all other aspects of a related party transaction (other than price) are equivalent tothose of a similar arm’s length transaction.

oLimitations on the group audit, for example, where the group engagement team’s access toinformation or people may have been restricted.38

xSLAuS 220 (Revised) establishes requirements for the engagement partner in relation toundertaking appropriate consultation on difficult or contentious matters, matters on which thefirm’s policies or procedures require consultation,39 and other matters that in the engagementpartner’s professional judgment, require consultation. For example, the auditor may have consultedwith others within the firm or outside the firm on a significant technical matter, which may be anindicator that it is a key audit matter. The engagement partner is also required to discuss, amongother things, significant matters and significant judgments arising during the audit engagement withthe engagement quality reviewer.40

…

SLAuS 705 (REVISED) – MODIFICATIONS TO THE OPINION IN THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT…

Application and Other Explanatory Material…

Circumstances When a Modification to the Auditor’s Opinion Is Required…

Nature of an Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (Ref: Para. 6(b))…

A10. Examples of circumstances beyond the control of the entity include when:

xThe entity’s accounting records have been destroyed.

36 SLAuS 260 (Revised), paragraphs 16(b) and A21

37 SLAuS 550, Related Parties, paragraph A42

38 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component

Auditors), paragraph 5749(c)

39 SLAuS 220 (Revised), Quality Management for an Audit of Financial Statements, paragraph 35

40 SLAuS 220 (Revised), paragraph 36

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 91A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

xThe accounting records of a significant component for which further audit procedures aredetermined to be necessary for the purposes of the group audit have been seized indefinitely bygovernmental authorities.…

Appendix

…

Illustration 1 – Qualified Opinion due to a Material Misstatement of the Financial Statements

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentationframework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised)41 does not apply).x…

…

Illustration 2 – Adverse Opinion due to a Material Misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of a listed entity using a fairpresentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entity with subsidiaries (i.e.,SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).x…

…

Illustration 3 – Qualified Opinion due to the Auditor’s Inability to Obtain Sufficient Audit Evidence Regarding a Foreign Associate

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of a listed entity using a fairpresentation framework. The audit is a group audit of an entity with subsidiaries (i.e.,SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).x…

…

41 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

92A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Illustration 4 – Disclaimer of Opinion due to the Auditor’s Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence about a Single Element of the Consolidated Financial Statements

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of an entity otherthan a listed entity using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit of anentity with subsidiaries (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).x…

…

Illustration 5 – Disclaimer of Opinion due to the Auditor’s Inability to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence about Multiple Elements of the Financial Statements

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

SLAuS 706 (REVISED) – EMPHASIS OF MATTER PARAGRAPHS AND OTHER MATTER PARAGRAPHS INTHE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT

…

Appendix 3…

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentationframework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised)42 does not apply).x…

42 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 93A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Appendix 4…

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

SLAuS 710 – COMPARATIVE INFORMATION CORRESPONDING FIGURES AND COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

Appendix

…

Illustration 1 – Corresponding Figures

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised)43

does not apply).x…

…

Illustration 2 – Corresponding Figures

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

43 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

94A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Illustration 3 – Corresponding Figures

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

Illustration 4 – Comparative Financial Statements

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

SLAuS 720 (REVISED) – THE AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO OTHER INFORMATION

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

…

Reading and Considering the Other Information (Ref: Para. 14–15)

…

Considering Whether There Is a Material Inconsistency between the Other Information and the Auditor’s Knowledge Obtained in the Audit (Ref: Para. 14(b))

…

A35. The auditor may determine that referring to relevant audit documentation or making inquiries of relevant members of the engagement team, including or relevant component auditors, is appropriate as a basis for the auditor’s consideration of whether a material inconsistency exists. For example:

xWhen the other information describes the planned cessation of a major product line and, althoughthe auditor is aware of the planned cessation, the auditor may make inquiries of the relevantengagement team member who performed the audit procedures in this area to support the auditor’s

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 95A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

consideration of whether the description is materially inconsistent with the auditor’s knowledge obtained during the audit.

xWhen the other information describes important details of a lawsuit addressed in the audit, but theauditor cannot recall them adequately, it may be necessary to refer to the audit documentation wheresuch details are summarized to support the auditor’s recollection.

A36. Whether, and if so the extent to which, the auditor refers to relevant audit documentation, or makes inquiries of relevant members of the engagement team, including or relevant component auditors, is a matter of professional judgment. However, it may not be necessary for the auditor to refer to relevant audit documentation, or to make inquiries of relevant members of the engagement team, including or relevant component auditors, about any matter included in the other information.

Appendix 2…

Illustration 1 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and has not identified a material misstatement of the other information.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of any entity, whether listed or other thanlisted, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600(Revised)44 does not apply).x…

…

Illustration 2 – An auditor’s report of a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report, has not identified a material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain other information after the date of the auditor’s report.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentationframework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) does not apply).x…

…

44 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

96A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

Illustration 3 – An auditor’s report of an entity other than a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained part of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report, has not identified a material misstatement of the other information, and expects to obtain other information after the date of the auditor’s report.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of an entity other than a listed entity using afair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) doesnot apply).x…

…

Illustration 4 – An auditor’s report of a listed entity containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained no other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report but expects to obtain other information after the date of the auditor’s report.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of a listed entity using a fair presentationframework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600 (Revised) does not apply).x…

…

Illustration 5 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an unmodified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and has concluded that a material misstatement of the other information exists.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of financial statements of any entity, whether listed or other thanlisted, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is not a group audit (i.e., SLAuS 600(Revised) does not apply).x…

…

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 97A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Illustration 6 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an qualified opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and there is a limitation of scope with respect to a material item in the consolidated financial statements which also affects the other information.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of any entity, whether listed orother than listed, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit (i.e.,SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).x…

…

Illustration 7 – An auditor’s report of any entity, whether listed or other than listed, containing an adverse opinion when the auditor has obtained all of the other information prior to the date of the auditor’s report and the adverse opinion on the consolidated financial statements also affects the other information.

For purposes of this illustrative auditor’s report, the following circumstances are assumed:

xAudit of a complete set of consolidated financial statements of any entity, whether listed orother than listed, using a fair presentation framework. The audit is a group audit (i.e.,SLAuS 600 (Revised) applies).x…

…

SLAuS 805 (REVISED) – SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS—AUDITS OF SINGLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SPECIFIC ELEMENTS, ACCOUNTS OR ITEMS OF A FINANCIAL STATEMENT

Introduction

Scope of this SLAuS1.This SLAuS does not apply to circumstances in which the report audit procedures are performed by ofa component auditor, issued as a result of work performed on the financial information of a componentat the request of a group engagement team for purposes of an audit of group financial statements (seeSLAuS 600 (Revised)).45

…

45 SLAuS 600 (Revised), Special Considerations—Audits of Group Financial Statements (Including the Work of Component Auditors)

98A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.2024

SLSRE 2400 (REVISED) – ENGAGEMENTS TO REVIEW HISTORICAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

…

Application and Other Explanatory Material

Scope of this SLSRE (Ref: Para. 1-2)

…

Reviews of Financial Information of Components in the Context of an Audit of the Financial Statements of a Group of Entities

A2. Review engagements in accordance with this SLSRE may be requested for component entities by the auditor of the financial statements of a group of entities. Such a review engagement performed in accordance with this SLSRE may be accompanied by a request from the group auditor to undertake additional work or procedures as needed in the circumstances of the group audit engagement.…

Acceptance and Continuance of Client Relationships and Review Engagements (Ref: Para. 29)

…

Agreeing the Terms of Engagement

…

Review of components of groups of entities

A54. The auditor of the financial statements of a group of entities may request that a practitioner perform a

review of the financial information of a component entity of the group. Depending on the instructions of the group auditor, a review of the financial information of a component may be performed in accordance with this SLSRE. The group auditor may also specify additional procedures to supplement the work done for the review performed under this SLSRE. Where the practitioner conducting the review is the auditor of the component entity’s financial statements, the review is not performed in accordance with this SLSRE.

…

Performing the Engagement

…

The Practitioner’s Understanding (Ref: Para. 45–46)

…

A78. In obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, and of the applicable financial reporting framework, the practitioner may also consider:

xWhether the entity is a component of a group of entities, or an associated entity of another entity.x…

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'07'18 99A PART I : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.07.20

Designing and Performing Procedures (Ref: Para. 47, 55)

…

A80. When the practitioner is engaged to review the financial statements of a group of entities, the planned nature, timing and extent of the procedures for the review are directed at achieving the practitioner’s objectives for the review engagement stated in this SLSRE, but in the context of the group financial statements.

…

Analytical Procedures (Ref: Para. 46–47, 49)

A90. In a review of financial statements, performing analytical procedures assists the practitioner in:

xObtaining or updating the practitioner’s understanding of the entity and its environment, includingto be able to identify areas where material misstatements are likely to arise in the financialstatements.

xIdentifying inconsistencies or variances from expected trends, values or norms in the financialstatements such as the level of congruence of the financial statements with key data, including keyperformance indicators.

xProviding corroborative evidence in relation to other inquiry or analytical procedures alreadyperformed.

xServing as additional procedures when the practitioner becomes aware of matter(s) that cause thepractitioner to believe that the financial statements may be materially misstated. An example ofsuch an additional procedure is a comparative analysis of monthly revenue and cost figures acrossprofit centers, branches or other components profit centers, branches or other components of theentity, to provide evidence about financial information contained in line items or disclosurescontained in the financial statements

…

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA