==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.2017

w;s úfYI

wxl 2051$35 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'12'29

No. 2051/35 - FRIDAY DECEMBER 29, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Uva Provincial Council Statute No. 05 of 2017 of Uva Navodaya Fund (Amendment)

THE above statute having passed by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka on the 09th of November, 2017 has been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 11th ofDecember, 2017 and which is here by published for the notification of the public.

R. A. H. A. SAMARASINGHE,

Secretary, Provincial Council of the Uva Province.

Council Secretariat,Uva Provincial Council,King's Street,Badulla.20th December 2017

UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Statute No. 05 of 2017 of Uva Navodaya Fund

THE Statute No. 01 1992 of Uva Navodaya Fund is Statute to be substitute in order to provide financial assistance andmaterials for the students in Uva Province those who got university entrance, talented students with the qualifications to sitfor advanced level, to provide facilities to confirm the health of the school students in Uva Province, to appreciate the studentsshowing sporting talents, provide facilities, providing physical infrastructure facilities and to provide provisions for otherthings related to this in order to support to uplift the sports skills.

Enact as such by the Procincial Council of Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A PG 3848 — 17 (12/2017)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20172 A

01. This Statute will be identified as the Statute No. 05 of 2017 of Uva Navodaya Fund, it will come to

effect from the date of approval by the Governor of Uva Province.

02. (1) (Hereafter will be mentioned as "fund") a fund should be established mentioned as Uva Navodaya

Fund.

(2) As per the name given in the paragraph (1) the fund is a corporation, there should be a continuous

survival and general stamp for that. Further cases can be filled by the fund and against the fundby this name.

03. (1) The administration, management and control should be assigned to the board established as

per the provisions provided hereafter

(2) (Hereafter will be mentioned as "board") the administrative board of the fund should include

the following members:

(a) The Chief Minister;(b) The Education Minister of the Cabinet;

(c) Chief Secretary;(d) The Secretary of the Education Ministry;

(e) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute;

(f) Two representatives appointed by the Chief Minister, representating Tamil and Muslim

community;(g) The opposition leader or the representative appointed by him(h) Two opposition members of the Provincial Council appointed by the Opposition leader

(3) The Chief Minister should be the Chairman of the Board;

(4) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this statute should be the Secretary of this

board by ex-officio. The Secretary should be the Chief accounting officer of the board.

(5) The members appointed to board can resign by their own at any time by sending a letter to the

Chairman.

(6) The following persons are not suitable to be appointed as a member of the board or continue

as a member of the board.

(a) If a person in a situation can't be released from liquidation and bankruptcy after announced

bankrupt by the laws existing in Sri Lanka or other countries.

(b) If a person committed crimes related to abuse against morality, which can be subjected to

imprisonment not less than six months.

(c) If a person is mentally upset or with mental disorders under the laws existing inSri Lanka.

(7) Under the provisions in paragraph (5) and (6) the tenure of the members appointed to the

board is three years.

(8) The Chairman has the total powers to remove the members appointed to the board from the

posts at any time with giving the reason. A new member can be appointed to that vacancy bythe Chief Minister.

(9) In case of the appointed member passed away, resigned or vacate the post before the maturity

of the tenture due other reasons the replacement member appointed can stay in the post forthe period not matured during the tenure of the predecessor

Short title anddate ofImplementation

Establishing UvaNavodaya Fund

Administrativeboard of the fund

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.2017

(10) In case of conflicts in ideas among members the decision of the majority should bind with

power.

(11) Should not consider any act or activity powerless only for the reason there is a vacancy

among members of the board.

(12) The quorum for any meetings of the board should be three members.

(13) Under the provisions of the (9) paragraph there should be a proper procedure relate to the

meetings of the board and conducting meetings.

(14) The meetings of the board should be conducted as per the orders of the Chairman or once

in two months.

4. The purposes of the fund should be as follows

(a) To provide financial assistance and materials for the students in Uva Province those who

got university entrance, talented sudents with the qualifications to sit for advance level.

(b) Reward to appreciate the students of Uva Province, shows special talents in Education.

(c) To provide pure drinking water to confirm the good health of the students of Uva Province

and to provide infrastructure facilities prevent these children from specific disease.

(d) To provide financial assistance and scholarship to improve the sports techniques of the

students of Uva Province, they show sporting talents accepted at District/Provincial andnational level

(e) To improve and develop the infrastructure facilities and physical situation of the existing

sports grounds in support to improve the sports skill of the students and members of thesports societies in general and to establish new grounds and facilities in places withoutsuch facilities.

5. Stamp of the fund

(a) It should be in the custody of the person defined earlier by the board;

(b) Can be changed by some way according to the decision of the board;

(c) No register should be signed except in front of two members with the powers of the board,

these two should sign the register to witness their presence.

6.(1) The board has the powers to perform everything needed or the initial things in the name of

the board to activate the purposes of the

(2) Following should be the powers and duties of the board damaging the powers assigned

according to the sub paragraph (1)

(a) Collection of funds and obtaining grants, gifts and donations from local and international

financial sources.

(b) The fund has the powers to acquisition and possession of movable or fixed assets assigned

to the board under this Statute or by purchase, by grant, by gift, by legacy or by other

The purpose of thefund

Stamp of the fund

Power and duties ofthe fund

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20174 A

means and has the powers to sell, mortgage, to rent, to donate, to assign, to release, toexchange or to dispose by other means.

(c) To maintain a lottery system and collect funds under some existing law to improve the

purposes of the fund.

(d) To function by involving as a sub agent if there is no officer or employee given straight or it

hoc in writing powers by the board through agreemets or understanding to implement thepowers, functions and duties to perform the purposes of the fund.

(e) To construct a building or to make a sketch or to plan such things in the land owned by

enjoyed by the fund.

(f) With the approval of the board to invest the money owned by the fund including the money

of the Uva Navodaya Fund No. 01 of 1992 in legal investmets, to reinvestment, to change thatinvestment, to cancel as per the wish of the board, to collect the income generated by theseinvestments.

(g) Opening bank accounts in banks as per the notice of the board and closing down the bank

accounts.

7. The money received from the following financial sources shouls be credited to the fund.

(a) Assistance given by the Uva Provincial Council to the fund;(b) Grants or donations in the form of money or others given by individuals or organizations;

(c) Income received by the board through lottery organized by the board and carnival;(d) Income or interest received by investments;

(e) Grants, Gifts or donations from international donors;

(f) All other incomes received by the board through other means;(g) By integrating the money of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992.

8. Following expenditure should be done by the fund:

a. All the expenditures approved by the fund for the functions needed to fulfill purposes of the

fund.

b. Expenses needed to establish, conduct and to implement the fund.

9.(a) According to the necessity of the fund, all the officials and employees coming under provincial

public service commission can be used for the functions of the board for a time period decidedby the board based on the wish of the respective officials or employees and the Chief Secretary.

(b) The service done by the officials and employees for the fund during this period should be

considered as a service done for the provincial council.

10.(1) The board should update and maintain their income, expenditure , assets and liabilities and all

other transactions in accordance with the accounting standard.

(2) In each year on the Thirty first of December the board should take measures to calculate the

balance in the account books and should make arrangements to prepare the income andexpenditure accounts for the respective year before the Thirty First of March of the next yearand to prepare the final accounts including the balance sheet, including the over view of theassets and liabilities to be prepared on the date mentioned first.

Composition ofthe fund

Payments made bythe fund

Accounts andAuditing

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.2017

(3) To implement the provisions mentioned in the paragraph (3), (2) can get the assistance of an

accountant of Uva Provincial Councils as per the paragraph 9(a).

(4) The income and expenditure accounts and the balance sheet of the board should be certified

by two members of the board authorized for ad hoc through the approval of a proposal.

(5) According to the 154th constitution the accounts of the fund should be audited by the Auditor

General every year.

11. The calendar year should be the financial year of the fund.

12. (1) The amount incurred related to legal situations because of the case filed by the fund or case

filed against the fund in a courts, should be reimburse by the fund.

13. (1) The minister may make rules or regulations in respect to all matters which have been authorized

or required by this statute or by order by this statute.

(2) Any rule or regulation made by the Minister shall be effective from the date of publication in the

gazette or from any day from which the rule may be specified.

(3) Any rule or regulation made by the Minister shall be submitted to the Provincial Council as soon

as possible after being published in the gazette. Any rule not deferred by the council shall bewithout prejudice to any earlier action under the said rule or regulation it should be consideredas offended.

(4) The date considered when any rule or regulation should be repealed published in the Gazette.

(5) The rules or regulations made by the Minister made under the subsection (1) of the sub clause

should come in to force as per the provisions of this statute.

14. All the officials and employees of the fund should considered as government servants as per the

interpretations and functions of panel code.

15. Fund should be considered as an organization listed under the interpretations of the bribery act.

16. The Statute of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992 will be repeal from the date of implementation of this

Statute, no prejudice will done to all the activities carried out up to now by the Statute of UvaNavodaya fund No. 1/1992 and should considered as done by this.

17. If there is any inconsistency, between Sinhala, Tamil and English the Sinhala text may be impose.

18. If there is any need for definitions in this statute,

Chief Minister as Uva Province Chief Minister,

Financial year

Reimbursementof expenditure

The rules shall bemade by theMinister

The officials andemployees of thefund shouldconsidered asgovernmentservants underpanel code

Fund should beconsidered as anorganization listedunder theinterpretation

Impose of Sinhalawhen there is aninconsistency

Definitions

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20176 A

Cabinet Minister of Education as Uva Provincial Cabinet Minister of Education

Chief Secretary as Uva Province Chief Secretary;

Secretary of Ministry of education as Secretary of Uva Provincial Ministry of Education;

Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute as Secretary

of the organization implementing the activities of the fund according to the decision of theadministrative board;

01 - 390

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.