==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1952$16 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks wÕyrejdÞ - 2016'02'02No.1952/16 - TUESDAY FEBRUARY 02, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952

DRAFT OF THE STANDARD BY-LAWS FOR PRADESHIYA SABHAS

DRAFT By-Laws for the Pradeshiya Sabhas Chapter I to VI made by me,C. V. WIGNESWARAN, as Chief Minister and theMinister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Electricity, Housing and Construction, Industries and EnterprisePromotion, Tourism, Local Government and Provincial Administration of Northern Provincial Council by virtue of powersvested in the minister under whose purview the subject of Local Government of Provincial Council falls underSub-section 1 of Section 2 of Local Authorities(Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952 read with paragraph (a) of Sub-section 1 of Section 2 of Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are published hereby.

While the above draft By-Laws are approved by resolution passed by the Northern Province Provincial Councilunder Sub-section 3 of section 2 of above Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act,Pradeshiya Sabhas in NorthernProvince are hereby empowered to accept these draft By-Laws subject to the provision in the Sub-section (2)(a) ofSection 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act and thePradeshiya Sabhas in Northern Province are empoweredto make By-Laws containing the provisions comprised in draft By-Laws by Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,15of 1987 read with Section 126 .C. V. WIGNESWARAN,Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning,Law and Order, Land, Electricity, Housing and Construction,Industries and Enterprise Promotion, Tourism, LocalGovernment and Provincial Administration,Northern Province Provincial Council.Chief Minister’s Office,No. 26, Somasundaram Avenue,Chundukkuli,Jaffna,27th January, 2016.

N. B. — Sinhala and Tamil Version of this Gazette Extraordinary will be published separately.

PG 2825 – 56 (02/2016)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20162A

Name of By-Laws.

Objective.

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws.

CHAPTER -1

Part I - Standard By-Laws relating to conduct of business at the meeting of thePradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the standard by-laws relating to conduct of business atthe meetings of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of making provisions for conducting ofPradeshiya Sabha meeting according to the procedure and legal guidance.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the Sub-section126 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) and 19 to 30 of PradeshiyaSabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987,

(4) (i)A general Meeting of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be held at the Pradeshiya Sabha Officeon a previously designated date and there shall be twelve monthly meetings to beconducted for a year. It shall be conducted on the day in the first week or closed tofirst week of each month previously determined by the Chairman. In the event of suchday falling on a day declared as a public holiday under the Holidays Act, No. 29 of1971. It shall be considered that such meeting has been decided to be held on the nextworking day immediately following such public Holiday and the meeting shall beheld on that day. The instruction shall be given to the Secretary by the Chairman tosend the notice of meeting to all members within the specified time.

(ii) (a)The notification summoning a general meeting or a special meeting of aPradeshiya Sabha shall be issued in Tamil or Sinhala in both these languages.The notice of meeting shall be forwarded by post with the meeting agenda toconduct the meeting to all members. Further draft meeting minute of previousmonth meeting also shall be sent with agenda as per this By-Laws. The secretaryshall not refused or make delay to carry out any instruction given by Chairmanas per this By-Laws. Summons shall be sent to a special meeting regarding anymatter as per the decision of the Chairman or at the request of members of thatPradeshiya Sabha not less in number than quorum prescribed for ordinarymeeting of Pradeshiya Sabha in writing . The particular matter specified in theagenda shall be only discussed at the meeting and no other matters shall bediscussed for some other reason. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to conducta special meeting within seven days at the request according to the aboveprovision.

(b)If the Chairman of any Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or willfully neglects to convenea special meeting within seven days of the receipt of any requisition persistedto him, it shall be lawful for the Assistant Commissioner to convene a specialmeeting at any time thereafter and to preside or to depute a public officer topreside over that meeting.

(iii) A notification on the summoning of a general meeting and on the programme for eachof such meeting shall be delivered to each Member at least four days before the day ofthe meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays( As per section 8(3) ofthe interpretation Act, 21 of 1901). In case of special meeting it shall be delivered atleast two day before meeting

(iv) In the event of the notification being placed in the premises usually occupied by theMember to whom it is being directed due to the inability to personally deliver thenotification specified in paragraph (ii) and (iii) due to some reason it shall be consideredthat it has been properly delivered.

OrdinaryMeeting andSpecialMeeting .

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(v)(a)In the event of a quorum being not available no proceedings shall be made. Thequorum of a general meeting of a Pradeshiya Sabha shall be one third the numberof Members holding office on the date of the meeting. In the event of the onethird of the Membership being a whole number and a fraction the next wholenumber higher than this whole number and fraction shall be considered as theone third for the purposes of this By-law.

(b) In the event of a quorum not being present even after the elapse of half an hourafter the scheduled time of any meeting or any time after the commencementof the meeting the Chairman shall adjourn the meeting to a date not later thanfifteen days after the particular meeting and considered to be suitable by him.The business that could have been presented at this adjourned meeting in theevent of a quorum being present shall be presented at the subsequent meetingand suitable action shall be taken in that regard.

(vi)(a) The Chairman shall adjourn a general or special meeting of the Pradeshiya Sabhahaving a quorum from time to time with the consent of the Pradeshiya Sabha.No other business than that which is left unfinished after being included in theOrderPaper of the Meeting which has been so adjourned shall be taken up at asubsequent meeting without the leave of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(b) Unless it has been decided at the earlier meeting to hold the adjourned meetingwithin twenty-four hours, the notification in respect of the adjourned meetingshall be delivered to the Members at least three days before the Scheduled timeof the particular meeting.

(vii)While all members attending the Pradeshiya Sabha meeting shall enter theirnames and the time of arrival in an attendance register maintained by the Secretaryand sign it in the sequence of their arrival the Register shall be in the custody ofthe Secretary.

(viii)The guest including the media and public shall take seats allocated to them inthe premises where the meeting of Pradeshiya Sabha is held .but if it is thedeclared view arrived at a majority decision of the members participating in themeeting of Pradeshiya Sabha that it is in the interests of the public to removepublic from the Pradeshiya Sabha chamber the public shall leave the chamberwhen they are called upon to do so by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

No guest shall be connected with the Pradeshiya Sabha affairs and no memberof the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be name any guest or point him out

(5) The Business of the Meeting shall be conducted in the following sequence:(a)confirm of the Minutes of the previous meeting;(b)special announcements made by the Chairman;(c)presentation of Memorandums, Petitions, Complaints and Communications addressedto the Pradeshiya Sabha;(d)questions that have been given due notice of;(e)motions that have been given due notice of;(f)Presentation of Reports of Committees. Unless the Pradeshiya Sabha decides toconsider these reports then and there the Pradeshiya Sabha shall fix a date to considerthem;(g)presentation and consideration of monthly statements on receipts and expenditure,progress reports on revenue collected and other documents Scheduled to be presentedto the Pradeshiya Sabha;(h)In the event of notice being given of any other matters in the notification summoningthe Meeting those matters shall be takenup in that sequence or in the sequence decidedupon by the Pradeshiya Sabha on special grounds.

Meeting Agenda

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20164A

(6) (i)The priority and the seniority of the Members of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be asfollows:(a)Chairman;(b)ViceChairman;(c)in the case of re-election of former Members of the Pradeshiya Sabha thesequence of their Continual Membership shall be taken as the basis; and(d) in the case of other Members the priority sequence followed by the ChairmanGeneral of Elections in gazetting their appointments on election shall befollowed.

(ii)In the event of the equality of the continual membership of any two or moreMembers of the Pradeshiya Sabha indicated in Sub section of Section (a) the priorityand seniority shall be taken into consideration on the sequence followed by theChairman General of Elections in gazetting their appointments on their election tothe Pradeshiya Sabha at the latest election.(iii)The political parties and independent groups belonging to the sequence of themembers elected in accordance with the Gazette Notification being published bythe Chairman General of Elections in regard to election of Members to anyPradeshiya Sabha after the election of members to such Pradeshiya Sabha shall notbe relevant to the purposes of this By-law.

(7) (i).While it is the duty of the Chairman to maintain discipline of the meeting hisdecision on all points of order contested by the members shall be final.

(ii).The Chairman shall order on his own opinion or on a point of order raised by anyother member that any member acting in contravention of the provisions of theBy-laws in this part should act according to the By-laws.

(8)Having invited the attention of a member on his conduct when he keeps on repeatingirrelevant matters or keeps on repeating the arguments put forward by him or othermembers at the debate causing concern to the Pradeshiya Sabha, the Chairmanshall order such member to stop the speech.

(9) (i). In respect of members conducting themselves in serious violation of disciplinethe Chairman shall order them out of the chambers immediately and to remainoutside till the proceedings of the day are over.

(ii).If the Chairman is of the view at any time that his powers under this By-law are notsufficient he shall act in accordance with provisions of paragraph (iv) of By-lawNo. 27 in this part.

(10) A member shall at any time move that a debate on any question be suspended. If themotion is seconded a voting shall be taken immediately. When a serious breach ofdiscipline has been caused at a meeting the Chairman shall without question put eithersuspend the proceedings for a duration ordered by him or adjourn it, if in his opinion itis necessary to suspend the proceedings of the meeting.

(11) The proceedings of the Meetings prepared in accordance with the By-law No. 5 in thispart shall include all matters relevant to the sequence. The proceedings of the meetingsshall be conducted in accordance with the sequence set out in By-law No. 5 unless anyother sequence has been approved at any Meeting.

Seniority ofMembers andReservation ofSeats

Functions ofChairman (7-11)

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(12)(i).Secretary shall maintain reports in record book in Tamil or Sinhala of proceedings,orders and decisions of the Meetings of the Pradeshiya Sabha .

(ii)The meeting minute of Pradeshiya Sabha standing committee or administrativecommittee shall be recorded by Secretary and the Chairman or chair person shallsign the minute. Further printed minute shall be prepared by the Secretary early aspossible.

(iii)The minute shall contain also names of members who have alternated the meetingand all discussions made by the Pradeshiya Sabha or the standing or administrationcommittee.

(iv)If any member has attended the meeting after the commencement of meeting, thetime of his arrival shall be recorded in the minute.

(v)If any member has left the meeting before the end of the meeting the time ofdeparture shall be recorded in the minute.

(vi)While the report of each meeting shall be distributed among the Members, theChairman shall put the question in the next meeting that it shall be confirmed onthe presumption that it has been read at the Meeting. If there are no protests orrectifications the Report shall be confirmed as it is. Otherwise, if there are protestsor rectifications those amendments shall be included in the Report. The Chairmanshall certify by placing his signature in the record book as to whether there are noamendments at the end of the Report or otherwise that the Report has been confirmedsubject to amendments specified in the Report.

(vii)The matters and statements made by the Members at the meeting of the PradeshiyaSabha shall not be included in the Pradeshiya Sabha Report.However, if thePradeshiya Sabha is of the view that it would be necessary to be aware of the viewsor statements made by any Member at the Pradeshiya Sabha action may be taken toprepare voice recordings of such meeting or meetings and keep them securely inthe Pradeshiya Sabha and also distribute them among the Members.

(13) While the Member who is not in agreement with any matter, question or motion shallhave the right to get his dissent recorded in the Report of the Pradeshiya Sabha the Secretaryshall take action to record the reasons for the Member’s dissent in the Report of theProceedings of that Meeting in the event of such member handing over a written statementon his dissent to the Secretary within one week of the relevant meeting.

(14)(i).The Pradeshiya Sabha shall transform itself into a committee at any time through aresolution. However, after the committee returns to the status of the house througha similar resolution the Pradeshiya Sabha shall take a decision on the consequencesof matters discussed at the committee Stage.

(ii).When any discussion of a Committee of the Pradeshiya Sabha is in progress at anytime any member shall have the right to propose that the Committee should revertback to a whole house. The Chairman shall put the question to the house and in theevent of it being carried the Pradeshiya Sabha should immediately revert back tothe status of a General Pradeshiya Sabha.

Functions ofPradeshiya SabhaSecretary andMeeting Minutes(12-13)

Committees andadvisorycommittees (14-16)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20166A

(15)(i).For certain functions of the Pradeshiya Sabha the Pradeshiya Sabha shall appointfrom time to time Consultative Committees consisting of members deemedsuitable by the Pradeshiya Sabha or consisting of Members and other citizensincluding chairman of Gramodaya Mandalaya consisted within the Pradeshiya Sabhaand in equal numbers.

(ii).A Consultative Committee appointed in this manner shall not perform somefunctions after the elapse of the year in which it was constituted

(iii).The quorum of all meetings of such Consultative Committees shall be one third ofthe number of members holding office on the day of that meeting. In the event ofone third of the members being a whole number and a fraction the whole numberimmediately above such whole number and the fraction should be considered asthe whole number for the purpose of this by-law.

(iv).When the Chairman of the any Consultative Committee is absent from the meetingthe members present shall elect one of the members as the Chairman of thecommittee. Such member shall have all powers vested in the Chairman of thatConsultative Committee.

(v).When a Consultative Committee has extended its consent for some report all themembers shall sign that report, and it shall be presented to the Pradeshiya Sabhatogether with the report of that Consultative Committee.

(vi).The press reporters shall not be allowed to witness the proceedings of a ConsultativeCommittee meeting.

(vii).While the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall function as the Secretary of theConsultative Committee on finances and policies of the Pradeshiya Sabha, it shallbe the duty of the Chairman to appoint some officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha tofunction as the Secretary of other Consultative Committees.

(viii).While it shall be the duty of the Secretary to a particular Consultative Committeeto maintain records of the proceedings of eachand every Consultative Committeeof the Pradeshiya Sabha, such Committee Reports shall be presented to thesubsequent meeting of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(16)While all members of a standing committee or special Committee attending themeetings of such committee shall enter their names, the time of arrival and signaturein an attendance register maintained by the Secretary of the committee and sign it,in the sequence of their arrival, the register shall be in the custody of the Secretaryto the Committee.

(17)The following matters in regard to decisions or agreements arrived at in respect ofproceedings of any Meeting shall be included in the report with each motion ormatter.

(i).In case of a motion, the contents of such motion;

(ii).The name of the Member proposing the Motion and that of the Seconded;

(iii).The names of Members expressing their views for and against the motion;

(iv).Whether the motion was passed or rejected unanimously; or

Proposals (17-18)

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(v). In the event of a division being called for a motion, the following matters in respectof that motion shall be recorded;

(a)the number and the identity of the Members voting for the Motion,(b)the number and the identity of the Members voting against the Motion,(c)the number and the identity of the Members abstaining from voting on theMotion;(d)the number and identity of the Members present at the Meeting but have leftthe Chambers at the time of voting

(vi).In the event of the sequence of business of the Pradeshiya Sabha being in respectof any other matter, the decision taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha in regard to suchmatter.

(18)(i).While all notices in regard to presentation of motions shall be in writing the Membergiving notice shall sign it. The Motion shall not be included in the Order Paperunless it has been in the custody of the Secretary for a period of seven days beforethe date of the Meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays.

(ii). All notices in respect of motions shall be included in the Order paper by theSecretary in the sequence of their receipt and having entered the date of receiptand serial number.

(iii).While the Chairman shall be presented with any notice in regard to a Motion, beforeit is included in the Order Paper, he shall order that it be not included in the OrderPaper if in his opinion it is contrary to rules, and action shall be taken to inform theMember making the notice about it.

(iv).All Motions given notice of shall be in respect of any question having an impact onthe administration of the activities of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(v).The presentation of any motion to rescind any Motion approved during the periodof past six months or of any other Motion causing similar consequences results toa Motion rejected during the past six months shall not be considered as agreeablewith the by-laws of this part, unless a notice has been signed by two Members inaddition to the Member who proposes that it would be presented and it has beenspecifically mentioned in the Order Paper. After suitable action is taken in respectof that Motion no Member shall have the power to present a similar Motion duringthe period of next six months.

(vi).Any Motion shall not be considered as being presented for debate until it is movedand seconded.

(vii).Any Member rising in his seat and saluting the Chair with a bow may formallysecond any Motion or Amendment without prejudice to his right to participate inthe debate subsequently.

(viii).As soon as action has been taken in respect of Motions for which notice has beengiven already a member has the right to present a Motion seeking approval of thePradeshiya Sabha to present any Motion for which notice has not been given earlier.However,it should have been handed over to the Secretary by the member movingthe motion having placed his signature to the motion.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20168A

(ix).After a motion has been presented to the meeting and seconded and the debate onit has been concluded the Chairman shall put the question in regard to approval ofthe motion.

(x).Any motion or Amendment presented by any member shall be withdrawn by thatmember with the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha. Approval shall be granted withoutdebate. Unless granting of approval is rejected after a member presenting any motionasking for such approval no member shall have the power to speak on that motion.

(xi).Any motion withdrawn earlier shall be presented again at a subsequent Meeting.However, any motion substantially similar to any motion decided to be acceptedor rejected during the period of past six months as stated in this By-Law shall notbe presented.

(xii).(a)While all amendments to a Motion shall be presented in writing the memberproposing it shall present the written amendment or amendments to theSecretary.(b)All amendments to a motion shall be relevant to the motion being discussedfor the time being.(c)All amendments to a motion shall be read out to the Pradeshiya Sabha beforepresentation.(d)Unless any amendment is seconded it shall not be discussed or presented tothe Pradeshiya Sabha.(e)A member Seconding a motion formally shall have the right to speak on itlater.(f)When an amendment to any motion being discussed has been presented andseconded, action shall not be taken to present a second or subsequentamendment until the first amendment is disposed of suitably. If an amendmentis approved the amended motion shall take the place of the original Motionand if there are any further amendments they shall be amendments in respectof the amended motion.

(19) (i).While the Chairman shall put the question in regard to approval of any matter,question or motion, it shall be considered to have being approved unanimouslyunless any member has not called for a voting on the motion after the question isput to the Pradeshiya Sabha. However, in the event of any member calling for avoting in regard to the motion or calling for a secret voteon the matter the Chairmanshall take action to hold a voting.

(ii).When a voting is required in respect of any matter, question or motion in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) above;

(a)the Secretary shall take action to hold the voting by noting down the preferenceof each Member having inquired about it separately in accordance with thepriority sequence of the Members indicated in by-law No. 6, when the votingis not a secret vote, or

(b)When the voting is held by secret voting, the Secretary shall take action tocount the votes cast by each member who has noted their preference in aballot paper issued to them separately.

(iii).At the conclusion of the voting taken by the Secretary in any manner set out inparagraph (ii) above, the Chairman shall announce the approval arrived at by thePradeshiya Sabha in respect of the particular matter, question or motion.

Voting Procedure

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv).When any question is put to the Pradeshiya Sabha or to a Committee of the wholeHouse, the Members present shall votefor or against the question, unless theyabstain from voting.

(v).In the event of a Member abstaining from voting when a voting is called theSecretary shall take action to record his name as a member who has abstained fromvoting.

(vi).While the Chairman shall have an original vote with the other Members at theMeetings of the Pradeshiya Sabha or at meetings of acommittee of the whole Housein respect of any matter, question or motion, in case of equality of votes taken onany motionhe shall have a casting vote as well.

(20)Members whose services have been suspended under paragraph (i) of by-law No. 27 orwho have been ordered out of the chambers under paragraph (iv) of by-law No. 27 shallleave the chamber immediately.

(21)The following rules shall strictly be adhered to when speeches are made in regard toany matter considered by the Pradeshiya Sabha or by a committee of the whole House.

(i).While every member should address the Chairman when speaking at a meeting, heshall be on his feet except when participating in committee Stage debates.

(ii).Unless a member speaking violates the Provisions of the by-laws in this Part heshall not be interrupted.

(iii).Any member shall resume his seat after making the speech. Thereafter any othermember wishing to speak shall address the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(iv).A member shall not read out a prepared speech. However, he shall quote fromwritten or printed articles in order to prove his arguments.

(v).In case of two members wishing to speak at the same time at a meeting the Chairmanshall ask the member who caught his attention first to speak.

(vi).Every member shall limit his observations to the subject under discussion only.

(vii).No member shall impute undesirable motives to any other Member.

(viii).All speeches of private nature shall be avoided

(ix).A member shall speak on the question before the Pradeshiya Sabha or on anyamendment of the question.

(x).No member shall speak more than once in regard to a matter before the PradeshiyaSabha except when it is required to make anexplanation on a point or order or whenthe Pradeshiya Sabha has transformed into a Committee.

(xi).Even in the absence of a question before the Pradeshiya Sabha a member shallmake an explanation of private nature with the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha.However, while the explanation should be limited to absolving his conduct, nodebate shall be allowed on the matter

(xii).A member moving any motion shall have the right to reply after all the memberspresent have been given the opportunity of expressing their views on the motionand before the question is put to the House. However, while his speech should belimited to replying the speakers who has participated in the debate he shall notpresent new facts. The mover of anyamendment shall not have the opportunity ofreplying any further.

Duties ofmembers(20-21)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201610A

(22)(i).Questions pertaining to the activities of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be put to theChairman.

(ii).Notice of at least seven working days, excluding Sundays and Public Holidays shallbe given in respect of any question.

(iii).A written reply to each question shall be read out by the Chairman at the Meetingof the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(iv).While a Member shall not address the Pradeshiya Sabha on any question the termscontained in any question shall not constitute any argument, or imputation of anymotive or expression of any view or matter rather than limiting to explaining thequestion involved.

(v).Any Member shall raise a supplementary question for the purpose of getting furtherexplanation in regard to a matter orincident on which a reply has been given at aMeeting. However, the Chairman shall not allow raising of such question if in hisopinion any supplementary question may violate the provisions set out above inthis by-law and on any such occasion the relevant supplementary question shall notbe included in the record of the Pradeshiya Sabha meeting

(23)(i).Any Member presenting a petition or memorandum to the Pradeshiya Sabha shallbriefly explain the objective of the petition or the memorandum.

(ii). Any Member shall not present to the Pradeshiya Sabha any petition, ormemorandum or any other communication not being written in a respectable toneand not containing the name and address of the person writing it.

(iii).Any member shall propose that a petition or memorandum be read out to thePradeshiya Sabha. When the proposal is made he shall briefly state the reasons asto why it is expected to read out the particular document.

(iv).While no debate shall be allowed on the motion no member shall speak on thepetition or the memorandum rather than formally seconding the motion.

(v).When the motion is seconded the question shall be put as to whether the relevantpetition or the memorandum should be read out.

(vi).No members shall submit (proposal) any petition which have already (proposal)submitted at the Pradeshiya Sabha by other member.

(vii).It shall be lawful for a member to propose that a petition or memorandum presentedto the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be directed to the Chairman for suitable action or toa Committee for report on final action to be taken in this regard.

(viii).Administrative committee shall consist of three members.

(ix).Administrative committee shall inquire and submit the inquiry report the generalmeeting of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(x).The Pradeshiya Sabha shall function as administrative committee and inquiry reportshall be discussed and discussion shall be taken stun.

Questions andAnswers

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi).In the event of any action being taken to examine the testimony of any witnessesthe petitioner or the member requiring such witnesses shall forward to the Secretarya list containing the names, addresses and vocations of such witnesses at leastthree day before the Scheduled date of the inquiry and the Secretary shall informthe witnesses in writing to present themselves for the inquiry.

(xii).Action shall be taken by the Secretary to hand over the summons or to the reachedbefore three days of the date and time of arrival to witnesses

(xiii).The inquiry proceeding of the petition shall be completed within three monthsfrom the date of 1st discussion of the petition.

(24)While a member raising a point of order should take his seat after raising the matter, noother member shall speak on the matter without approval of the Chairman until thequestion is resolved by the Chairman. Thereafter, the member who has been addressingthe Pradeshiya Sabha at the time the question was raised shall have the right to continuewith his speech if he is in agreement with the decision of the Chairman, of the PradeshiyaSabha or the Committee of the Pradeshiya Sabha. If he is not in agreement with thedecision the Chairman shall deny him the opportunity of continuing with the speech.

(25)The Pradeshiya Sabha shall censure or act as it considers suitable in respect of a Memberwho has not made an explanation in regard to unsuitable words used by him or who hasnot withdrawn such words or who had not expressed his regret in using such words in amanner acceptable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(26)When the Chairman expresses his desire to speak the member on his feet at that momentshall take his seat.

(27)(i).The Chairman shall name a member who violates the provisions of the by-laws inthis part by disregarding the authority of the Chair or purposely interrupting theproceedings over and over again. On a motion presented by some member or bythe Chairman to the effect that “the Pradeshiya Sabha Service of that Member shallbe suspended” the Chairman shall put the question immediately. Such motion shallnot be allowed to be amended, adjourned or debated.

(ii). If the Pradeshiya Sabha service of any member was to be suspended under this by-law as a result of the approval of any such motion,the suspension shall be effectivefor duration of one month at the first instance, two months at the second and threemonths at the third or subsequent instances.

(iii).Unless a number of members present at a meeting have collectively disregardedthe authority of the Chairman no more than one member shall be named at a time.

(iv).In the event of any member whose Pradeshiya Sabha service has been suspendedunder this by-law or a number of members acting collectively, rejecting at anytime during the course of such suspension, the acceptance of the orders made bythe Chairman of a meeting to leave the chambers chairman may direct such step tobe taken as are required to enforce his decision

(28) In this part, unless the context otherwise requires –

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

Tasks not to becarried out (24-27)

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201612A

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Chairperson of Meeting” means the Chairman presiding over meetings of the Pradeshiya Sabhafor the time being or the Vice Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha who takes the Chair in hisabsence and it also includes any other member elected on the vote of the members for theChair in the absence of both the Chairman and the ViceChairman.

“Commissioner of General of Elections” means the Commissioner General of the ElectionsCommission and it also includes the Returning Officer of relevant Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Voice Recordings” means a tape where voice recordings are made mechanically and it includesa compact disc where voice can be recorded or any other instrument where data can bestored.

Part II - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and control of HairDressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centres within the area of authority of thePradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,control and supervise of Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centres within the area ofauthority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 4 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of1987. (3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the subsection 126 (XXIII)of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5)The license shall be issued to any Hair Dressing Saloon, Barber shop or Beauty Centerby the Chairman or Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specifiedconditions are duly fulfilled.

(i)The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.

(ii)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.

(iii)These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides.

(iv)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metres fromfloor level.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-25)

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi)The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof shall beatleast 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least 1metre.

(vii)The floor of the rooms shall have been finished off with cement or tiled and the placewhere the wall and the floor meets shall be built circular to facilitate cleaning.

(viii)Provide sufficient sitting space to any customer arriving at the premises expectingservice on the basis of at least 1.5 meters away from the place where the customergetting service is located.

(ix)There shall be wash basins fixed and sufficient pipes fixed to drain waste water if wateris used in providing services to customers

(x)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treatedand released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixingwith air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the constructedwell.

(xi)Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately formales and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.

(xii)The licensed premises shall not be used as a residence and it shall be separated fromthe buildings used as a residence.

(xiii)At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(xiv)Sufficient light shall be provided to the inside of building .

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied asset out under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) All those who have obtained licence under the by-laws in this part shall wash the floor of thelicensed premises with disinfectants at least once in one month.

(8) At the licensed premises, sufficient water supply during the entire period when they areopened for the customers.

(9) At the licensed premises, enough facilities to boil water or a sterilization mechanism and asufficient number of utensils used in sterilization in order to sterilize instruments and utensils usedshall be provided .

(10) Wash basins with facilities to wash hands and soap or liquid soap shall be provided for theuse of employees when they are providing services at the licensed premises.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201614A

(11) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of towels and aprons in light colours (not indark colors) shall be provided for the use of the customers.

(12) At the licensed premises, a movable receptacle with a tight lid to collect cut hair and otherwaste shall be kept.

(13) At the licensed premises, at least one safety plug shall be fixed to each table in the event ofelectrically controlled instruments are used.

(14) At the licensed premises, a first aid box containing sufficient amount of first aid instrumentsand drugs as prescribed by the Medical Officer of Health shall be kept.

(15) At the licensed premises, a sufficient number of spittoons shall be kept in such manner asto be readily available to customers and employees.

(16) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that all employees of the licensed centre —

(i)engage in their service daily only after a bath or body wash ;

(ii)maintain their clothes in a clean and healthy condition ;

(iii)keep their nails cut and without any dirt, and

(iv)Wash their hands with soap before serving each customer.

(17) The licensee shall ensure that the,

(i)instruments used in the licensed centre are sterilized after each use ;

(ii)brushes and combs are sterilized after washing well before use on each day ;

(iii)Receptacles, cups, soap brushes and combs are washed in hot water after each use.

(18) The licensee shall ensure —

(i)that cut hair and other waste material removed after cutting hair and beard of eachcustomer obtaining service at the licensed centre are put into a receptacle havingbeing collected by sweeping or through electrically operated mechanism ; and

(ii) that the blade of the barber’s knife containing changeable blade is changed, afteruse of each customer.

(19) It is the duty of the licensee to see that waste material in the receptacle containing piecesof cut hair are dumped in a pit at least one metre below the ground level at the end of daily activities orif necessary a number of times each day. Moreover, it is also the duty of the licensee to ensure thatprecautionary action is taken to prevent dispersal or scattering of cut hair disposed of.

(20) In the event of the inability to dispose of the pieces of hair and other waste in the mannerset out in By-law No. 19 action shall be taken to hand over such waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha scavengingvehicle in the manner prescribed under the waste management programme of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(21) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure cleaning and disinfecting of the receptacleused to collect waste material produced at the licensed centre.

(22) List of charges to be recovered shall be displayed at legible place within the shop.

(23) While every licensee shall maintain a register with names and address of the employeeswho are working at the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of the licensee to allow inspection of thatregister when it is so requested by the Chairman or Authorize officer.

(24) Every licensee of a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre shall keepaffixed a board with his name and the words “Licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and BeautyCentre” legibly painted thereon in Tamil, Sinhala and English in a conspicuous position on the outside ofhis premises.

(25) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employed at the licensed place to a medicaltest at least once a year.

(26) No person shall run a Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centre within theauthority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid licence for the purpose of that, issuedby the Chairman.

(27) (i)Any person at the licensed Hair Dressing Saloon, Baber Shop and Beauty Centreshall not keep or causes to keep any pet.

(ii)No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item forwashing clothes.

(28) (i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a personwho has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recentlynursing anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completedthe period mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work ofthe licensed place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place,unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii)No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the licensedplace, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(29) The interior of a premises issued with a licence under the by-laws in this part shall not beused in the night or in the day time as a place for sleeping or eating meals and nobody else shall beallowed to do so.

(30) The use of,

(i)any type of blood clotting pencil or any other substance, or

(ii)alum or any other substance in any other form rather than as a powder or a liquid, inrespect of any customer shall not be made or allowed at licensed premises.

(31) The licensee in any licensed centre shall not use an apron which is not washed or any towelthat is not one used for the first time after being washed, in respect of any customer.

(32) Unless written permission of the Chairman has been obtained no other activity shall bepursued in a licensed premises other than those prescribed in the licence issued under the provisions ofthe by-laws in this part.

Tasks not to becarried out (26 –34)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201616A

(33) No person shall expectorate within any hairdresser’s or barber’s shop or saloon except into a spittoon provided for that purpose.

(34) No licensee shall use any articles banned by Sri Lankan Law or Medical Officer of Healthof Pradeshiya Sabha at licensed premises.

(35) In the event of the premises where any hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty centreis maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of theseBy-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demandinghim to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position beforea specified date.

(36) (i)Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, the Secretary has the authorityto charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run anyHair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centres.

(ii)Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the licence fees for HairDressing Saloons, Baber Shops and Beauty Centres shall be the duty of PradeshiyaSabha Chairman as specified in above sub section (i)

(37) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(38) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(39) (i)The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards ofthese By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.

(ii)It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under theprovisions, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or any Authorized officer forinspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.

(40) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 35 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extensionshall not be exceeded 14 days.

(41) It shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence issued for the place when anylicensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 40 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulatedin the notice on or before the specified date.

(42) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(43) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

Function of theLocal Authority.

Charges andfees.

Delegation ofpower.

Valid period oflicense or permit.

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (39-41).

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(44) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convictedafter a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabha limitsliable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. Furtherin case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has thejurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).

(45) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws ofthe hair dressing saloon, Baber Shop and beauty centre and person who is responsible formanagement, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of thisplace.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.

“The appropriate time” means any occasion when service is being provided to the customers atthe premises.

“apron” means any cloth used for covering the upper part of the body of a customer obtainingservice from the licensed centre.

Fines andpenalties.

Interpretation anddefinition.

SCHEDULE – 01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Hair Dressing Saloons, Baber Shops andBeauty Centres within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha

1.Name of the Business Centre :——————————.

2.Place of the Business Centre:——————————.(i). Ward No.:——————————.(ii). Assessment No.:——————————.(iii). Name of the Road/Street:——————————.(iv). GN Division No. & Name:——————————.

3.Name of the Applicant:——————————.(i). Full Name:——————————.(ii). Permanent Address:——————————.(iii). GN Division No & Name:——————————.(iv). NIC No.:——————————.(v). Telephone No.:——————————.(vi). e-mail Address:——————————.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201618A

4.(i)Date of Beginning the Business :——————————.(ii)Type of the Business:——————————.(iii)Previous Business:——————————.

5.If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:——————————.(ii)Address:-

6.Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:——————————.If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:——————————.

Date:———————.

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business underthe By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office useFor report as follows………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Sectional Head

For the report of revenue department,

(i).Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

(ii).Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

(iii).Remarks:………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector.

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

FOR THE REPORT OF THE MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH,

PUBLIC HEALTH INSPECTOR’S REPORT:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………… ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector.

Report of Medical Officer of Health:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………… ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………… ……… ……………………

………………….… ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

……………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya SabhaChairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman

……………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Signed

…………………….………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201620A

Part III - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and administrate ofthe crematoriums of the Pradeshiya Sabha and charging fees within the area of authority ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-laws in this part may be cited as the standard By-Laws relating to regularize and controlof the crematoriums of the Pradeshiya Sabha and charging fees.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and Public health,publicutilities services for the people residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of thePradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987 and maintaining and managing of immovable property.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the sub Section126(6) (c)and (IX) (k) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act No. 15 of 1987 and the Cemeteries and Burial Ground Act

(4) Anybody expecting to obtain a licence mentioned in By-law No. 8(hereinafter referred toas “the applicant”) shall forward an application substantially prepared in accordance with the Scheduleto this part together with the documents mentioned below to the Chairman or the Authorized Officer.

(i)(a)The birth certificate of the applicant, or (b)The birth certificate of the deceased, or(c)The marriage certificate of the applicant, or(d)The certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the Division where the deceasedwas living, in order to facilitate the establishment of the relationship betweenthe deceased and the applicant;

(ii)If an inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code Act No. 15 of 1979 had been made inrespect of the death of the deceased, the certificate issued by the Magistrate or theInquirer-into-Sudden Deaths under paragraph 41(e) of the Registration of Birthsand Deaths Act giving permission to cremate the dead body or the certificate issuedunder paragraph 43(b) of the Registration of Birth and Deaths Act, in the event ofthe dead body being of a still born person, and

(iii)The death certificate of the deceased

(5)Dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation and cremations shall be done betweenthe periods 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. on all days of the week. If there is any cremation ofa corpse in other time shall be obtained a special license from the Chairman. Themaximum number of corpse which can cremate per day shall be decided by thePradeshiya Sabha and shall notice on a notice board of the crematorium.

(6) (i)The applicant or any authorized representative of him shall take possession of theashes of the body before the elapse of seventy two hours after the cremation of anydead body.

(ii)However, on a written request made by the applicant the Chairman or the AuthorizedOfficer shall extend the period during which the ash are is kept with the CrematoriumKeeper.

(iii)The period of extension for the ash to be kept in the custody of the CrematoriumKeeper under paragraph (ii) shall not be more than six weeks from the date of thecremation.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-7)

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv)The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper shall have thepower to dispose of the ash that has not been removed even after the expiry of suchperiod allowed for the removal of ashes.

(v)It shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer to make arrangementsto bury the ash not removed by any applicant or any authorized representative at thepremises of the crematorium or in any cemetery.

(7) Notwithstanding anything stated in By-Law No. 12

(i)any other person or persons who participate in the handing over of a dead body forcremation with the person who has obtained a licence to cremate it or with hisauthorized representative; and

(ii)any other person or persons who arrive at the crematorium on the specified date orearlier to receive ash, with the person who has obtained the licence or with hisauthorized representative,shall be considered as persons who have been allowed toenter the premises of the crematorium

(8) (i)No dead body shall be cremated in any crematorium owned by the Pradeshiya Sabhawithout a licence issued by the Chairman or an Authorized Officer.

(ii)It shall be able to discontinue the cremation a corpse permitted by a formal licencewithin the permitted time period only by a written order of the court or in-chargepolice officer. The Pradeshiya Sabha will not responsible to offer an extra time forallocated time or repay the charges for that, and there is no any right to the applicantfor request.

(9) Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer in to Sudden Deaths has granted permission to crematea dead body on completion of an inquiry made in respect of it by the said Magistrate or the Inquirer intoSudden Deaths, under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979, the Chairman or the AuthorizedOfficer shall not accept it for cremation or issue a licence to cremate it.

(10) Unless the relevant crematorium of the Pradeshiya Sabha has been named in the 7th columnof the Death Certificate of a deceased, under “cause of Death and the place of the burial or cremation’the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall not accept the dead body for cremation or issue a licenceto cremate it.

(11) Nobody other than the Crematorium Keeper or his Assistants shall enter into the coveredsection of the chamber of the Crematorium after the closure of the security door of the chamber onintroducing the dead body into the chamber of any crematorium

(12) Nobody shall enter into the premises of any crematorium without permission from theChairman or Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper.

(13) Within the premises of any crematorium nobody shall, -

(i).act in a manner disrupting peace ;

(ii).damage or try to damage property within the premises of the crematorium belongingto the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

(iii).obstruct the official functions of the Crematorium Keeper or any of his Assistants;

(iv).decorate or paste notices within the premises of the crematorium.

Tasks not to becarried out (8 – 13)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201622A

(14)In the event of a decision being arrived at to issue a licence on an application made forpermission to cremate a dead body, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer toregister the death in the sequence such applications are received in a Register substantially preparedaccording to the Third Schedule to this part. This Register shall be maintained at the Office of thePradeshiya Sabha accepting applications.

(15)In the event of accepting any dead body for cremation in accordance with the applicationforwarded, the applicant shall be issued with the permit by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer aftercharging the fees levied according to By-law No. 20. The time and the date on which the dead body dueto be cremated according to the permit should be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper shall beclearly specified in the relevant permit.

(16)In the event of a dead body being not accepted for cremation due to some reason theChairman or the Authorized Officer shall take steps to immediately inform the applicant in writingabout it, specifying the reasons for such non-acceptance.

(17)The Crematorium Keeper shall maintain a Register substantially prepared in accordancewith the Fourth Schedule to this part, in regard to each dead body cremated in any crematorium.

(18)It shall be the duty of the Chairman to maintain and operate the crematoriums inconditions suitable for cremation of dead bodies;

(19)The Pradeshiya Sabha has the right to burn or bury the corpse or a part of the corpserespectfully when there is a technical defect of crematorium during the cremation of a corpse andunable to recover within short period.

(20)In the event of the closure of any crematorium for the purpose of repairs or maintenanceactivities it shall be the duty of the Chairman to display prominently a notice on it in all the threelanguages at the Office issuing licence for cremation of dead bodies and at the entrance to the crematoriumpremises.

(21)(i).While it is possible to determine by Resolution approved by the Secretary thecharges for the cremation of a dead body it shall be amended from time to time onsuch approval of a Resolution.

(ii).While charges levied or amended from time to time under paragraph (i) aboveshall be published in the Gazette it shall be prominently displayed at the placewhere applications are received for booking the crematorium and at thecrematorium.

(iii).The charges for the cremation of a dead body shall be levied under the classificationset out in the First Schedule of this Part.

(22) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(23) The dead body shall be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper on or before the timespecified in the licence issued. The Pradeshiya Sabha, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall notbe subjected to responsibility in respect of any inconvenience or loss caused to the applicant or anybodyelse having rights over the deceased due to the failure to handover the dead body on time.

However the licence issued shall be valid on that day only.

Functions of thePradeshiyaSabha(14 - 20 )

Charges and fees.

Delegation ofpower.

Valid period oflicense or permit.

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(24) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the crematium.

(25) Permit holder or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairmanor Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(26) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(27) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhalimits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law whichhas the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2)

(28) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the provisionsof the Local Authorities Elections Act;

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabhas;

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty;

“Cremation chamber” means the chamber where the dead body is kept and the outer;

“Crematorium premise” means the whole crematorium and the land on which it is located;

“Crematorium keeper” means any employee appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha to be in-chargeof the crematorium and its functions;

“Ash” means any matter left behind after cremating a dead body;

“Dead body” means the entire dead body of a deceased person or the dead body of a still born

person or any part of a dead body.

Procedure ofinspection andpowers

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation ofBy-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201624A

FIRST SCHEDULE

BY-LAW No. 20(iii)

FEES FOR USE OF THE CREMATORIUM

Rs. cts.

(1)To cremate the dead body of an adult living in the area of authority.……….

(2)To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult living inthe area of authority……….

(3)To cremate the dead body of an adult living outside the area of authority.……….

(4)To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult, living outside the area of authority……….

(5)To cremate the dead body of an adult of a Samurdhi family living in the area of authority……….

(6)To cremate the dead body of a person who was not an adult of a

Samurdhi family living in the area of authority……….

A child below the age of 12 years is considered here as a person who is not an adult.

SECOND SCHEDULE

BY-LAW No. 4

(To be forwarded in duplicate)

Front Page

APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE TO CREMATE A DEAD BODY AT THE CREMATORIUM

OF … … …… … … … PRADESHIYA SABHA

(1)Full name of the applicant: … … … … … … … … … …

Address: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … …

Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: … …

(2)Full Name of the deceased: … … … … … … … … … …

Sex: … … … … …

Address of the residence: … … … … … … … … … … …

Number and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: … …

National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … …

(3)Applicant’s relationship to the deceased: … … … … …

(Please annex a certificate stated in paragraph (i) of By-law No. 4 in order to establish the

relationship)

(4)Registration No. and Date of the Death Certificate:… …

(Annex a copy of the Death Certificate)

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(5)Name and Division of the Registrar of Deaths: - … … … …

(6)Cause of Death: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

(7)In the event of an inquiry being held into the Death:

(Annex the Certificate stated in Paragraph (ii) of By-law No. 4)

Name and Designation of the Inquiring Officer: - … …… …

Date of Inquiry: - … … … … … … … …;

Determination of the Inquiring Officer: - … … … … … …;

Has the Inquiring officer given permission to cremate the dead body?: … … … … … … … …

(8)Date and time applied for the cremation: - … … … … … …

(According to the sequence of preference)

Date TimeDateTime

(i).… … … 20 … … … Hours(ii) … … … 20 … … … Hours

(ii). … … … 20 … … … Hours(iv) … … … 20 … … … Hours

I hereby certify that the information stated above are true and accurate. I further state that I take

full responsibility for the information given here. Relevant certificates are annexed.

… … … … …

Signature of the Applicant. Date: … … … 20 … …

SECOND SCHEDULE

Mr./Mrs./Miss … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

Sir / Madam

Refusal to issue a licence to cremate a dead body

It is regretted to inform you that the issuing of a licence in accordance with the application overleaf

forwarded by you has been refused for the following reasons:-

(i). ……………………………………………………………………….

(ii). ……………………………………………………………………….

(iii). ……………………………………………………………………….

(iv). ……………………………………………………………………….

(v). ……………………………………………………………………….

Signature of Chairman/Authorized Officer

(Please affix the official seal).

Date: - … … … … … 20 … …

Crematorium Keeper,

… … … … … … … … Crematorium.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201626A

Licence issued to cremate a Dead Body(a) Permission is hereby granted to cremate the dead body of ………………………. at …………a.m. / p.m. on ……… 20 ………………at the ……………Crematorium.

(b) The information given in the application overleaf has been entered in the Register according toBy-law, No. 6.

(c) A sum of Rs. ……………..has been charged through Receipt No………………….dated ……20………….

(d) Please take action to cremate the dead body after making necessary entries in the relevantRegister as stated in By-law,No. 11 with reference to information given in this licence.

(e) The Serial Number of the Permit Register is ………………………………..

……………………………….Signature of the Chairman/Authorized Officer.(Please affix the Official Seal).Date: - … … … … …

THIRD SCHEDULE

REGISTER OF LICENCES ISSUED TO CREMATE DEAD BODIES AT THECREMATORIUM OF … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … PRADESHIYA SABHA

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

DeathCertificateRegistration

Applicants

Order of theMagistrate/ Inquirer-into-Sudden Deaths

Receipt

Cremation

Serial No.

Name of the Deceased

NIC No.

Sex

Date of Death

No.

Date

Name

Relationship to the Deceased

Address

NIC

Reference No.

Date

Permit

No.

Amount (Rs. cts.)

Allotted Date

Allotted time

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

FOURTH SCHEDULE

REGISTER ON DEAD BODIES CREMATED AT T HE CREMATORIUMAT ………………………………………..PRADESHIYA SABHA

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

DeathCertificateRegistration

Applicant

Receipt

Serial No.

Name of the Deceased

NIC No.

Sex

Serial No. of the Permit

Date of Death

No.

Date

Name

NIC No.

Permit No.

No.

Amount (Rs. cts.)

Allotted Date

Allotted time.

Date of removal of ashes

Cremation

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201628A

CHAPTER 2

Part I- Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor of eating-houses, restaurants, tea or coffee shops and similar shop within the area of authority of thePradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,monitor and control of eating-houses, restaurants and tea or coffee shop or similar shop within the areaof authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126(ix)(h) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya SabhasAct No. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any eating-house, restaurant and tea or coffee shop or similarshop by the Chairman or Authorized Officer of Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specifiedconditions are duly fulfilled.(i)The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.

(ii)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.

(iii)These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any otherrooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metalsheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.

(iv)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level.

(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.

(vi)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter.

(vii)The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii)Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and thebins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting intothem.

(ix)The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and otheranimals getting into them.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-17)

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(x)Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 11.

(xi)Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,

(a)when the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished andpainted. Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polishedimpermeable material or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints;

(b)when the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of tableshall be painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polishedimpermeable material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.

(xii)A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to beobtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the NationalWater Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the QualityCertificate has been obtained.

(xiii)If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xiv)A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.

(xv)Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separatelyfor males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatoriesshall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such amanner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(xvi)The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone orany other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While thewalls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. Thefloor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.

(xvii)Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at thelicensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) respect of lavatories of thisBy -Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms, as well.

(xviii)Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room shall be madein safe manner by pipe line.

(xix)Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using sectionof premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clayand polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed.

(xx)A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises;

(xxi)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treatedand released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixingwith air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the constructedwell.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201630A

(xxii)At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(xxiii)At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks areprepared shall have been covered with joint less and stainless metal sheets or tiles orwith any impermeable material.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.

(8) The drains carrying waste water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washedwith water at least twice daily.

(9) Bathrooms and lavatories in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and sprayed withdisinfectants twice a day. Further they shall be maintained without unpleasant smell.

(10) The licensee shall ensure that every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparationof food, exhibition, sale and the use of the customers in the licensed premises shall be washed in cleanwater before use and after use as well.

(11) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law12 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being putor removed.

(12) (i)If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows(a)Bio-degradable wastes;(b)Glass;(c)Paper or paper related materials;(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;(f)Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;(g)Hazardous waste.It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put in separatebins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii)Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the mannerprescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(13) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insectsand it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept thereand food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.

(14) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or anyother instruments shall be used to serve food.

(15) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be providedwith clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee toensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety materialswhen they are on duty.

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(16) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(17) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(18) No person shall run an eating-house, restaurant and tea or coffee shop or similar shopswithin the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid permit for the purpose ofthat, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(19)(i)Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve inany unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.

(ii)Any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machineor making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodginghouses or residence living closely.

(20)The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then andthere of the land or anywhere else in the premises.

(21)(i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a personwho has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recentlynursing any body who is suffering from such disease or any person not completedthe period mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work ofthe authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place,unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii)Person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(22) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 24

(23)(i)No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products notcontained the minimum compositional requirements of as per the annexure 1 shownbelow accordance with the food regulations published in the Gazette of DemocraticSocialist Republic of Srilanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food Act No 26 of 1980.

(ii)Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfitfor human consumption.

(24)It shall be lawful for the Chairmanor an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample ofany kind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.

(25) In the event of the premises where any eating place, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop orsimilar shop is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the saidlicensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribedposition before a specified date.

(26) Under the section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated torun eating-houses,restaurants, tea or coffee shops and similar shops.

Tasks not to becarried out(18 – 23)

Functions of thePradeshiya Sabha(24 - 25 )

Charges and fees

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201632A

(27) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(28) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier

(29) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(30) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of theseBy-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairmanor Authorized officer.

(31) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 25, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shallnot be exceeded 14 days.

(32) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when anylicensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law 31 fails to act as stipulated in the notice on orbefore the specified date.

(33) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(34) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(35) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of lawwhich has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(36) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the provisionsof the Local Authorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the C Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By lawsof the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (29 – 32)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

“Eating-house or restaurant” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared forsale or kept for display or any other meal prepared for human consumption or short-eats areprepared and kept for sale or display.

“Tea or coffee shop” means, a place is maintain to prepare tea, coffee or similar drinks for salewith bakery products or other short eats or without foods.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

Annexure -01Compositional Requirements of milk

Column IColum IIColum IIIColum IVClass of milkDesignationMilk fat minimumMilk solids other thanpercentmilk fact minimumpercent

1.BuffaloRow, pasteurised orsterilised7.09.0

2.cowDo.3.58.5

3.StandardisedPasteurised or sterilised3.258.25

4.TonedDo.2.08.5

5.FlavouredDo.2.07.2

6.SkimmedDo. -8.5

Schedule - 01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting Eating-houses, Restaurants, Teaor Coffee shops and similar shops within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business centre:————————————.

2. Place of the Business centre:————————————.(i)Ward No.:————————————.(ii)Assessment No.:————————————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:————————————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:————————————.

3. Name of the Applicant:————————————.(i)Full Name:————————————.(ii)Permanent Address:————————————.(iii)GN Division No. & Name:————————————.(iv)NIC No.:————————————.(v)Telephone No.:————————————.(vi)e-mail Address:————————————.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201634A

4.(i)Date of Beginning:————————————.(ii)Type of business:————————————.(iii)Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:————————————.(iv)Previous Business:———————————.

5. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:————————————.(ii)Address:————————————.

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:————————————.

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No.:————————————.

Date:

I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business underthe By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant

For office useFor report as follows

………………………………

Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer

For the report of revenue department,

1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………2.Fees to be paid……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3.Remarks:………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of the Medical Officer of Health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………….………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector..Medical Officer of Health’s Report:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health.

For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H. report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector.

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license………………………………………

……………………….…………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

……………………….………………………………………… DatePradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..Sectional head(Revenue).

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer

…………………….……………………………………… Date Secretary.

Signed ………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201636A

Part II - Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor hotels withinthe area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,control and monitor hotels within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126(ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas ActNo. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The licence shall be issued to run any hotel by the Chairman or Authorized Officer ofPradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the regulationsnoticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41 of 1978.

(i)The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition.

(ii)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height.

(iii)These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any other approvedstones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any otherrooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber and metalsheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to this provisions.

(iv)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metres fromfloor level.

(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable.

(vi)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has to beat least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be at least1 meter.

(vii)The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii)Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place and thebins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents getting into them.

(ix)The utensils in the kitchen must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and otheranimals getting into them.

(x)Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law No. 13.

(xi)Each table kept in licensed place for use of consumers and in the kitchen,

a)when the tables are made of timber, the legs of table shall be polished and painted.Further, the surface of the tables shall be covered with any polished impermeablematerial or stainless metal sheet, devoid of any joints.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Law

Tasks to beexecuted (4-19)

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

b)when the tables are made of iron, steel or any other metals the legs of table shallbe painted and the surface of the table shall be covered with any polishedimpermeable material or stainless metal sheets, devoid of joints.

(xii)A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the licensed place, and this certificate has to beobtained at least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the NationalWater Supply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the QualityCertificate has been obtained

(xiii)If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xiv)A separate place shall be maintained for washing the utensils used by the customers.

(xv)Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately formales and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatoriesshall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms or pantries such amanner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(xvi)The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestone orany other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. While thewalls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted. Thefloor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles.

(xvii)Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees at thelicensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xvi) in respect of lavatories of thisBy -Law shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms as well.

(xviii)Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room shall be madein safe manner by pipe line.

(xix)Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer using sectionof premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clayand polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall be installed .

(xx)A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises.

(xxi)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall be treatedand released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be covered without mixingwith air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away from the constructedwell.

(xxii)At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintained inworking condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place, electricalfire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(xxiii)At the licensed premises, the section where tea, coffee, milk and other drinks areprepared shall have been covered with joint less and stainless metal sheets or tiles orwith any impermeable material.

(xxiv)All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customers andemployees, shall be at least 04 square metres for one person (2 m length X 2m width).Further, an almyrah or cabinet to keep cloths, a bar made by wood or metal to keeptowel or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customers and attachedbathrooms shall be there.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201638A

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout under By-Law No. 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carrying wastewater in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.

(8) Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedspreads, pillowcovers, blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleaned before tobe provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completely openedat least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. However there shallbe at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with air condition inoperation.

(9) Every licensee of hotel shall maintain a register to write down record the name, address,and identity of each person who stays at the licensed premises and it is the duty of the licensee to allowit, to be examined when the Chairman or An Authorized Officer.

(10) It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and clean everyroom, stairs, halls, drains and the premises before noon every day.

(11) Latrines and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied withdisinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating odour. However, itmay be considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which customersare staying once a day.

(12) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take action that vessels and other items orimplements used for cooking or preparing food or used for exhibiting and selling food meant to beconsumed by the customers, cleaned and washed by using soap or liquid soap before and after using.

(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo. 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being putor removed.

(14)(i)If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows

(a)Bio-degradable wastes;b)Glass;(c)Paper or paper related materials;(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;(f)Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;(g)Hazardous waste.It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste isput in separate bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii)Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman.

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(15) Every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insectsand it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that materials used in preparing food or beverages kept thereand food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above living beings.

(16) Food served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands and spoons, forks or anyother instruments shall be used to serve food.

(17) Every person engaged in preparing food and drinks at the licensed premise shall be providedwith clean white aprons, masks, gloves, hat, and safety covers. It is the responsibility of the licensee toensure that each employee be clean before start the work by washing body and wear these safety materialswhen they are on duty.

(18) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(19) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(20) No person shall run a hotel within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he orshe has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom

(22) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply withthe minimum space specified in para (xxiv) of By Law 5.

(23) No animals shall be kept in any rooms, kitchen or dining hall of the licensed premise.

(24) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and thereof the land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place specified.

(25)(i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a personwho has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recentlynursing anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completedthe period mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work ofthe authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place,unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed.

(ii)No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(26)(i)Any employee who engaged in food production or food serving shall not involve inany unhygienic or awkward activities in the licensed premise.

(ii)any person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk , operating machineor making any unnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodginghouses or residence living closely

(27) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law 30

(28)(i)No person shall keep or sell any kind of adulterated milk or milks products notcontained the minimum requirements of as per the first schedule shown belowaccordance with the food regulations published in the Gazette of DemocraticSocialist Republic of Srilanka dated 01.08.1991 under the food act No. 26 of 1980.

Tasks not to becarried out( 20 – 29)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201640A

(ii)Any licensee shall not keep or sell any kind of spoiled milk or milk products unfit forhuman consumption .

(29) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of

(i)more than one bed in a single bedroom(ii)more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bedroom(iii)more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bedroom,and (iv)more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single bedsor five single beds in a family room.Further, in respect of any hotel the licence shall not allow more than one person tosleep in a single room or more than two in a double room or more than three intriple room. However, when the age of the anybody sleeping in any room that personis below 12 years shall not be considered as one person for purpose of this section.

(30) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.

(31) In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a licence issued, anylicence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or an Authorized Officer shall takeaction to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions torestore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(32) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary hasthe authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.

(33) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(34) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of this By-law shall expire on 31stDecember of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(35) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(36) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of theseBy-laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairmanor any Authorized Officer.

(37) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- law No. 31, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shallnot be exceeded 14 days.

(38) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when anylicensee who received such notice mentioned in By-law No. 37 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulatedin the notice on or before the specified date.

(39) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

Function of thePradeshiya Sabha( 30 – 31)

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (35-38)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(40) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-laws shallbe an offence.

(41) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law whichhas the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(42) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires,

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act, of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted underurban development Law No. 41 of 1978

“ The power to inspect within the specified period” means, opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place. “Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of this by law ofthe hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Hotel” means, a place where cooked meals and curries are prepared for sale or kept for displayor any other meal prepared for humanconsumption or short-eats are prepared and kept forsale or display or where accommodation are made for customers ;

“Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having twodouble beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;

“Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with adouble bed and one single bed or three single beds ;

“Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed ortwo single beds.

“Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only onebed ;

“Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bedand a mattress ;

“Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with onemattress and a bed ;

violation of By-Law

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201642A

Annexure -01

Compositional Requirements of milk

Column IColum IIColum IIIColum IVClass of milkDesignationMilk fat minimumMilk solids other thanpercentmilk fact minimumpercent

1.BuffaloRow, pasteurised orsterilised7.09.0

2.cowDo.3.58.5

3.StandardisedPasteurised or sterilised3.258.25

4.TonedDo.2.08.5

5.FlavouredDo.2.07.2

6.SkimmedDo.-8.5

Schedule-01

Application For Business tax / Licence 20.. for conducting Hotel within the area ofauthority of Pradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business centre:——————————.

2. Place of the Business centre:——————————.

(i)Ward No: ——————————.(ii)Assessment No:——————————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:——————————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:——————————.

3. Name of the Applicant:——————————.(i)Full Name:——————————.(ii)Permanent Address:——————————.(iii)GN Division No. & Name:——————————.(iv)NIC No:——————————.(v)Telephone No:——————————.(vi)e-mail Address:——————————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning:——————————.(ii)Type of business:——————————.(iii)Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:——————————.(iv)Previous Business:——————————.

5. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:——————————.(ii)Address:——————————.

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:————.

If last year licence was obtained,Licence No:——————————.Date:——————————.

7. The number of:(i)Single rooms in the lodging house:(ii)Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….(iii)Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………(iv)Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……(v)All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …

8. The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …

9. Toilets :(i)The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …(ii)The number of toilets for female employees:… … …(iii)The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …(iv)The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

10. Bathrooms:(i)The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …(ii)The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …

11. The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …12. Source of water supply: … … … … … …13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Businessunder the By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………. …………………………………………DateAdministrative Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201644A

For the report of Revenue Branch,1. Type of business:……………………………………………………………………2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3. Remarks:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issuelicense………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved…………………… ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya SabhaChairman/Authorized Officer

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Part III- Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitor lodginghouses within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,control and monitor lodging houses within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126(ix)(e) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,No. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in Schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The licence shall be issued to run any lodge by the Chairman or Authorized Officer ofPradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled in addition to the regulationsnoticed under the provisions in the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978:–

(i)The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition,

(ii)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height,

(iii)These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or approved stonesand plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen, any otherrooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or both timber andmetal sheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity to these provisions,

(iv)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3.0 metresfrom floor level,

(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable,

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-14).

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of theReceipt:…………………………….License No:………………………………. Date of theLicense:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

Date …………………..…………………………Sectional Head(Revenue).

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer………………………………. ………………………………………… Date. Secretary.

Signed………………………………. ………………………………………… Date. Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201646A

(vi)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5 metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be atleast 1 meter,(vii)The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles,(viii)Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place andthe bins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents gettinginto them,(ix)Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law 12,(x)A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Board inrespect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be obtained atleast once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National Water Supplyand Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the Quality Certificatehas been obtained ,(xi)If the water is stored for the use of licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water,(xii)Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separatelyfor males and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Suchlavatories shall be constructed at a distance away from kitchen, dining rooms orpantries such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene,(xiii)The walls of each lavatory shall be constructed with bricks, block stones, limestoneor any other approved stones and plastered with cement, polished and painted. Whilethe walls are built with stainless metal sheet, the surface of them shall be painted.The floor shall be plastered with cement and polished or laid with floor-tiles,(xiv)Sufficient number of bathrooms shall be constructed for the use of employees atthe licensed place and the terms stated in paragraph (xiii) respect of lavatories ofthese By-Laws shall be applicable to the floors and walls of these bathrooms, aswell,(xv)Facilities, to supply water that is used at licensed premise to each room, shall bemade in safe manner by pipeline,(xvi)Facilities to wash hand and mouth shall be made available at the customer usingsection of premises and wash basins made of stainless metal sheets or made ofceramic clay and polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled shall beinstalled, (xvii)A suitable system of drain shall be made available to allow free flow of waste waterdisposed from any section of the premises,(xviii)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be coveredwithout mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away fromthe constructed well,(xix)At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintainedin working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place,electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition,(xx)All bed rooms at the licensed premises reserved place for sleeping for customersand employees, shall be at least 04 square metres for one person (2 m length X 2mwidth). Further, an almyrah or cabinet to keep clothes, a bar made by wood or metalto keep towel or other things, a table to keep the things of customer or customersand attached bathrooms shall be there,(xxi)Licensed premises shall have a separate room as a kitchen with an efficient outletfor smoke,

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(6)It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to beapplied as set out under By-law 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7)Any room in the licensed premises, after using by one customer all bedspreads,pillow covers, blankets, towels or any other clothes in the room shall be properly washed and cleanedbefore to be provided to another customer. Besides, the windows of such room should be kept completelyopened at least for four (04) hours before allowing the next customer to stay in the room. Howeverthere shall be at least thirty minutes interval to allow next customer when the rooms have been with aircondition in operation

(8)While every licensed premise shall maintain a register to note the address andidentify of each person coming to say overnight in the licensed premise, it shall be the duty of thelicensee to allow inspection of that register when it is so requested by the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer.(9)(i)It is the responsibility of the licensee to make arrangements to sweep and cleanevery room, stairs, drains and the premises before noon every day.

(ii)The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day. The drains carryingwaste water in the licensed premises shall have been cleaned and washed with waterat least twice daily.

(10) Latrines and bathrooms in the licensed premises shall be cleaned and applied withdisinfectants at least twice a day and these shall be maintained without emanating odor. However, it maybe considered to be adequate that cleaning the toilets and bathrooms in rooms in which customers arestaying once a day.

(11) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-lawNo. 12 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put orremoved.

(12) (i)If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows:

(a)Bio-degradable wastes;

(b)Glass;

(c)Paper or paper related materials;

(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f)Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g)Hazardous waste.

It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put inseparate bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii)Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman orAuthorized Officer.

(13) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201648A

(14) It is the responsibility of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nailbrush and soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(15) No person shall run a lodge within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he orshe has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(16 ) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any rooms other than the room reserved as bedroom.

(17) The licensee shall not allow any person to sleep in any bedroom which do not comply withthe minimum space specified in para (xx) of By-law 5.

(18) In any licensed premises the bed rooms shall not any time consist of –(i)more than one bed in a single bed room,

(ii)more than two single beds or a double bed in a twin bed room,

(iii)more than one double bed and a single bed or three single beds in a triple bed room,and

(iv)more than two double beds and a single bed or one double bed and three single bedsor five single beds in a family room.

Further, in respect of any lodge the licensee shall not allow more than one personto sleep in a single room or more than two in a double room or more than three intriple room and so on. However, when the age of the anybody sleeping in any roomthat person is below 12 years shall not be considered as one person for purpose ofthis section.

(19) It is duty of the licensee to ensure that any lodging house is not use for illegal activitiesany person shall not engage in singing songs or activating disk, operating machine or making anyunnecessary noise so as to creating inconvenience to other lodging houses or residence living closely.

(20) No animals shall be kept at any licensed premise.

(21) The garbage discharged from the licensed premise shall not be disposed in then and thereof land or anywhere else in the premises other than the place as specified.

(22) (i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a personwho has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recentlynursing anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completedthe period mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work oflicensed place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unlessthe incubation period of the disease has lapsed.

(ii)No person should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorized place,unless they are dressed in clean clothes.

(23) In the event of the premises where any lodge is maintained under a licence issued underthe By-laws any licence contravenes any By-law set out in this part, the Chairman or Authorized Officershall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(24) Under the Sub-section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary hasthe authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run lodge.

Tasks not to becarried out( 15 – 22)

Function of thePradeshiya Sabha

Charges and fees

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(25) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the Secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(26) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelledearlier.

(27) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power toinspect the standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(28) It shall be the duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of theseBy-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairmanor Authorized Officer.

(29) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 23, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the ChairmanorAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shallnot be exceeded 14 days.

(30) The Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 29 fails to act asstipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(31) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(32) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(33) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the limits liable to thepenalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case ofcontinued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction,shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2)

(34) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act;

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha;

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty;

“Urban Development Authority “ means, the urban development authority constituted underUrban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978;

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (27-30)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation ofBy-Law

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201650A

“ The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place;“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Lawsof the lodging houses and person who is responsible for management, is employed by theperson in-charge or Manager of the management of this place;

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision;

“Lodge” or “Lodging house” means, a house or a part of house in which on a payment, lodgingis provided for two or more persons who are not members of the same family but does notinclude a hospital or a rest house;

“Family room” means, a room having space for three persons to stay at a time having twodouble beds and one single bed or double bed and three single beds or five single beds ;

“Triple room” means, a room with sufficient space for three person to stay in at a time with adouble bed and one single bed or three single beds ;

“Double room” means, a room where two person can stay in, at a time with one double bed ortwo single beds;

“Single room” means, a room with sufficient space for one person to stay in having only onebed ;

“Double bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm in length and 125cm in breadth having one bedand a mattress ;

“Single bed” means, a bed measuring 200cm (minimum) in length 95cm in breadth with onemattress and a bed ;

Schedule -01Application for Business Tax / Licence 20…. for conducting lodging Houses within the area ofauthority of Pradeshiya Sabha

(1)Name of the Business centre:———————.

(2)Place of Business centre(i)Ward No.:———————.(ii)Assessment No.:———————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:———————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:———————.

(3)Name of the Applicant:(i)Full Name:———————.(ii)Permanent Address:———————.(iii)GN Division No & Name:———————.(iv)NIC No.:———————.(v)Telephone No.:———————.(vi)e-mail Address:———————.

(4)(i)Date of Beginning:———————.(ii)Type of business:———————.(iii)Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:———————.(iv). Previous Business:———————.

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(5)If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:———————.(ii)Address:———————.

(6)Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:———————.If last year licence was obtained,Licence No:———————.Date:———————.

(7)The number of:(i)Single rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ……(ii)Double rooms in the lodging house: … … … … …….(iii)Triple rooms in the lodging house: … … … … ………(iv)Family rooms in the lodging house: … … … … … ……(v)All persons who could get lodging in the premises: … …

(8)The Number of employees (including the Manager) in the Lodging House: … … …

(9)Toilets :(i)The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …(ii)The number of toilets for female employees:… … …(iii)The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …(iv)The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

(10) Bathrooms:(i)The number of male bathrooms: … … … … …(ii)The number of female bathrooms: … … … … … …

(11) The Number of Kitchens: … … … … … … … … …

(12) Source of water supply: … … … … … …(13) Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the Year 20….. to run the Industry/Business underthe By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office useFor report as follows………………………………Chairman/Secretary/ Authorized officer .

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201652A

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

……………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer.

For the report of revenue department,1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………………

2.Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3.Remarks:……………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

…………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H. report:……………………..C.O.C: ……………………………………. Excise License:………………… Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license …………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Department

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya SabhaAuthorized Officer………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Signed………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

Part IV - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,control and monitor of bakerieswithin the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,control and monitor of bakeries within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No 15 of1987.

(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126 (ix) (h) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya SabhasAct, No 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The licence shall be issued to any bakeries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer ofPradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.

(i)Premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition whether heat is obtained byusing firewood, electricity or any other way.(ii)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable(iii)Each room shall be ceiled and applied with white color paint.(iv)The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiles.(v)The room in which the oven of the bakery and walls are located shall be at least ina height of three (3) metres from the ground level of the room.

Name ofBy-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-25)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201654A

(vi)Further all walls shall be built in bricks, cement blocks, lime stones or stones withboth sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints when the walls havebeen completed using timber with aluminum or other metal, surface of the timbershall be applied with paints.

(vii)All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.

(viii)While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shallbe at least 2.5 metres above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shallbe at least 1 meter in width.

(ix)A quality certificate shall be obtained from the Water Supply and Drainage Boardin respect of drinking water used in the place, and this certificate has to be obtainedat least once in every six months. If the water is supplied by the National WaterSupply and Drainage Board in this place, it shall be considered as the QualityCertificate has been obtained.

(x)If the water is stored for the use of a licensed place, adequate protective measuresshall be taken to avoid contamination of that water.

(xi)Facilities to supply water that is used at licensed premises to each room, shall bemade in safe manner by pipe line.

(xii)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise,action shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste watershall be treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall becovered without mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metreaway from the constructed well.

(xiii)Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under By-Law No 13.

(xiv)When the bakery requesting a licence is one using wood,

(a)The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have beenbuilt a height of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.

(b)A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of woodremoved from the oven of the bakery shall be supplied.

(c)The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied withlime.

(d)A separate place or room shall be there to store fuel.

(xv)When the bakery requesting a licence is using electricity-

(a)While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall bein a safe condition, trip switches automatically functioning during high voltageand leaks in electricity shall have been fixed.

(b)While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premisesshall be drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity.

(6) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instrumentsshall have been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the bakery.

55AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(7) All spaces prescribed in By-Laws No. 5 in these By-Laws to have been applied with paintsshall be so applied with paints at least once a year.

(8) The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once a month

(9) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smooththe joins shall have been joined leaving no space between the joins. Otherwise they shall be coveredwith stainless metal sheets without joins.

(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

(11) The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in propermaintaining condition.

(12) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials after washingtheir bodies or bath when they are on duty at the license premises.

(13) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By LawNo. 14 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a month or more than if necessary,and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or removed.

(14) (i).If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows:–(a)Bio-degradable wastes;(b)Glass;(c)Paper or paper related materials;(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;(f)Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;(g)Hazardous waste.It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that eachtype of waste is put in separate bins or containers which are organized to becovered.

(ii).Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(15) A separate room exclusively used for the storage of flour and other ingredients used in thebakery, shall be maintained. It shall be sufficiently ventilated. It shall be secured against entry of rats,flies or any other kind of insects.

(16) When storing flour in the store room mentioned By-Law No. 15 in these By-Laws a rackmade of timber on a stand at a height of 20cm from the floor level shall be used and the particular rackshall have been finished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover,while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects remainingunderneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23cm away from the wall.

(17) It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned By-Law No. 16 are taken outand cleaned at least twice a month.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201656A

(18) Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of customers and employees separately formales and females, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons. Such lavatories shall be constructedat a distance away from manufacturing room of bakery, pantries and place for displaying or sale ofproducts such a manner to avoid direct contact in order to maintain hygiene.

(19) All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes toclean nails and soap or fluid soap.

(20) It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights, electronicbalance or any other type of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the bakery licensed under theprovisions of the By-Laws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any customer theweight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.

(21) In the event of the delivery of bakery products for sale by the licensee himself it shall bethe duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds ofwaste material or water.

(22) Every licensee of a bakery shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outside ofhis premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Bakery” legibly painted there on in Tamil,Sinhala and English.

(23) Any persons who are taking bakery products for sales shall have a permit duly authorizedby the Chairman or Authorized Officer

(24) Name list (sellers) shall be kept at the licensed bakery for the inspection of Chairman orAuthorized Officer

(25) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(26) No person shall run a bakery within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unlesshaving a valid licence issued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in schedule 1for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(27) Unless the date of expiry of flour and other ingredients used in the manufacture of bakeryproducts are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture ofbakery products at any time.

(28) (i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a personwho has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recentlynursing anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completedthe period mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work ofthe authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place,unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii)Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at any licensed premise.

(29) Unauthorized chemicals and colourings shall not be used for the bakery products.

(30) While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the by-laws inthis part, action shall be taken not to keep or store any other material other than the instruments ormaterials used for the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for theemployees of the bakery shall not be included to this.

Tasks not to becarried out(26-34)

57AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(31) Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products.Further, when unground water tank is constructed waste fit or ash fit shall not be constructed a distanceof 18 metres.

(32) No animals shall be kept at licensed bakery or any part of licensed bakery.

(33) No person shall spit within the licensed premises except in to a spittoon provided forpurpose.

(34) Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 35

(35) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, topurchase a sample of any kind of bakery products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(36) In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a licence issued underthe By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officershall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(37) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run hotels.

(38) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(39)The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelledearlier

(40) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(41) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions of theseBy-Laws to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairmanor Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.

(42) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 36, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shallnot be exceeded 14 days.

(43) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 42 fails to act asstipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(44) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(45) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence.

Function of thePradeshiyaSabha(35-36).

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers.

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers(40-43).

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Law

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201658A

(46) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No .15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of lawwhich has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(1).

(47) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabhas or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of this by law ofthe hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Bakery products” means, bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufacturedin any bakery for sale or on order placed by any person.

“Bakery” means, a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets aremanufactured and it shall also include any place where such food prepared or where goodsare stored for preparation of such food.

Schedule 01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting Bakeries within the area ofauthority of Pradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business centre:-

2. Place of the Business centre:-(i)Ward No.:-(ii)Assessment No.:-(iii) Name of the Road/Street:-(iv)GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:-(i)Full Name:-(ii)Permanent Address:-(iii) GN Division No. & Name:-

Fines andpenalties.

Interpretation anddefinition.

59AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv)NIC No.:————————.(v)Telephone No:————————.(vi)E-mail Address:————————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning :————————.(ii)Type of business:————————.(iii) Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:————————.(iv)Previous Business:————————.

5. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:————————.

(ii)Address:————————.

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:————————.If last year licence was obtained,Licence No.:————————.Date: ————————.

I, do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business underthe By Law.…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows :

………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer.

For the report of revenue department,1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………2.Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3.Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………………

……………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201660A

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector.

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health.

For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… ………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector.

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

……………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

For the report of Revenue BranchReceipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..Sectional Head(Revenue).

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary.Signed ……………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya SabhaChairman/Authorized Officer

61AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

CHAPTER 3

Part I - Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, monitor and administrate the publicplayground within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize,monitor and administrate Public playgrounds within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) The By-laws in this part are made for the purpose of providing playground facilities tosocial development and maintaining and managing of immovable property of the Pradeshiya Sabha withinthe Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the subSection 126(vi) (c) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987

(4) Any person who expects to obtain a permit to make use of any playground owned by thePradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application that is in Schedule – 1

(5) The permit to make use of any playground owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be issued bythe Chairman or Authorized Officer if only the conditions that are stated in these By-Laws are fulfilled.

(6) Any person who expects to use the playground shall submit an application to reserve theplayground at least three days before the expected day of such use. Further, the reservation madeaccording to the said application shall be subjected to the provisions in By-Law No. 7.

(7)(i)Any person shall not damage or not to allow to damage the playground owned bythe Pradeshiya Sabha, and shall not lead cattle, pigs, horses, ponies, asses, dogs orany other animals into the playground. Further, any vehicle shall not be taken intoany playground without permission obtained from the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer.(ii)Any person, shall not be in intoxicated state, shall not misbehave, shall not be aftertaking drugs and shall not make nuisance unnecessarily to the outsiders..(iii)Any person shall not use a reserved playground for any other purpose except theone which it was reserved for.(iv)A permit issued for the reservation of a playground shall not be transferred to anyperson for any reason.(v)Permit holder or his representative or user of the playground or spectators or anyperson shall not cause any loss to furniture and fittings, electrical equipment, watersupply equipment and any other assets belonging to Pradeshiya Sabha in theplayground.

(8)(i)An application for issue of a permit to make use of the playground shall beconsidered in the sequence in which that has been received by the Pradeshiya Sabha.(ii)Priority for the use of the playground shall be given to applications for any sportsor sports related events among the applications received for the use of a playground.

(9) In the event of any applicant needing the cancellation of the reservation of any playground,after it has been reserved under the provisions of the By-Laws, the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer shall allow such cancellation, subject to the following conditions:

(i)When the application for cancellation of reservation is forwarded,(a)A Three months prior to the date on which the playground has reserved, fivepercent of the fees paid,

Name of By-laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-6)

tasks should notbe executed

Function of thePradeshiyaSabha( 8-12 )

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201662A

(b) Two months prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved, tenpercent of the fees paid,

(c)One month prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved,fifteen percent of the fees paid,

(d)Fifteen days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved,twenty five percent of the fees paid,

(e)Seven days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved,fifty percent of the fees paid,

(f)Three days prior to the date on which the playground has been reserved,seventy five percent of the fees paid, shall not be refunded from PradeshiyaSabha fund.

(ii).When the application for cancellation of the reservation is forwarded in a periodof time less than three days to the date on which the playground was reserved thefees paid shall not be refunded fully.In the event of cancelling any reservation, the applicant shall have the right to getthe full refund of security deposit for such reservation.

(10) When an application forwarded for the reservation of a playground by any person is rejectedit is the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to inform the applicant in writing early as possibleon the day of such application itself or within the reasonable period, for such rejection.

(11 ) On any occasion when any playground has not been reserved for any purpose according tothe provisions of the By-laws in this part, it shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer toallow such playground to be used for sports practice or training in sports without fees.

(12) In the event of any playground reserved under the provisions of the By-laws in this partbeing required for any essential matter of the Chairman or Authorized Officer, on the day of suchreservation itself, the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel such reservation.If such cancellation is effected,(i)The applicant shall be informed in writing about the cancellation three days prior tothe date of such reservation of the playground and the fees paid by him, and the depositmoney shall be refunded fully. Furthermore, such cancellation shall not be effectedless than three days prior to the date of reservation.

(ii)The Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to cancel the permit issuedto a particular day due to the urgent or special requirement within three days to thedate such reservation made. However reasonable compensation shall be given to thepermit holder when the cancellation is occurred. But, it shall be confirmed that it is anadvantage to the Pradeshiya Sabha by giving compensation other than the lossesoccurring when the cancellation is not made.When the cancellation of a reserved playground for special requirement byPradeshiya Sabha in terms of para (i), the Pradeshiya Sabhas has no responsibility toany claim of compensation for damages due to the cancellation to the permit holderor any institution.

(13)(i)The permit shall be issued on the basis of decision made by the Pradeshiya Sabhaaccordance with the table set out in the Schedule II, only after payment of fees forreservation of the playgrounds and deposit money made by applicant.

(ii)Pradeshiya Sabha has the authority to request to pay the fees and the security depositbefore three days as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

Charges andfares(13 – 14)

63AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(14) After the use of any playground reserved for any purpose, only after deducting.(i)the cost of any damage caused to the playground or any section or any assetsbelonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha

(ii)The fees that shall be paid on behalf of the extra period of time utilized theplayground.The Balance amount of the deposit shall be paid back to the applicant

(15) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha

(16)(i)All permits that, issued under these By-laws are valid for the days or hours for howlong they are allowed unless they have been cancelled before.

(ii)In the event of the necessity to get the date of reservation of any playground changedthe applicant shall forward a written request in this regard to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer. The amendment of the date of reservation made according tosuch request shall be subject to provisions in By-Laws No. 9 and 10.

(17) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspectplayground within the specified period at the licensed premises

(18) It shall be duty of the permit holder who have received permit for use of playground underthe provisions to cooperate for inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to theChairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer.

(19) Permit holder or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairmanor Authorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(20) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(21) (i)It shall be lawful to cancel the permit when the contravention or breach occurred interms of these By-Laws

(ii)It shall be lawful to charge compensation from the permit holder for damaging theplayground or assets in the playground.

(iii)Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence andif convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction withinthe Pradeshiya Sabhas limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) inthe Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contraventionof these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction,shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(22) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (17-18)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201664A

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Permit holder” means, any person whosoever obtained a permit under provisions of these By-Laws.

“Playground “means, any place allocated by Pradeshiya Sabha for the purpose of sports and itshall include the wall or fence erected around the playground or any building constructedwithin the playground or any section of such construction any fittings or instruments.

“Sports” shall have the same interpretation stated in the Sports Law, No 25 of 1973.

Schedule 01

Application for permission to use the … … … … … … …Playground in … … … … … Pradeshiya

Sabhas

Name of the Applicant: … … … … … … … … … … … …

Address: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … …

02. Reason for application: - … … … … … … … … … … … …

03. Date and Time when the playground is required:

From … … … … … … To … … … … … … Time … … …

I hereby certify that the above information is true and accurate. In the event of the allocation of therelevant playground as a result of this request I agree that the Pradeshiya Sabha shall deduct the cost ofany damages caused to the buildings, constructions, instruments and fittings of the playground if andwhen such damage is caused. Meanwhile, in the event of the said deposit being not sufficient to affectsuch recoveries, I agree to pay any further amount of money require in this respect. Moreover, I agree toobey the provisions in By-laws relating to the regularizing, control and supervision of the playgrounds.

……………………Signature of the Applicant.Date :…………

Schedule 02

According to By-Law No. 13 in this part - Table of fees charged for the use of a playground

NoName of theFeesDepositFees for an extra hourPlaygroundRs. Cts.Rs. Cts.Rs. Cts.

1

2

3

4

65AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Part II - By-Laws relating to prevent from damages to the roads and obstructions to the roadtransport and formulate regularize, monitor and administrate roads within the area ofauthority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws relating to prevent from damages tothe roads and obstructions to the road transport and formulate regularize, monitor and administrate theroads within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of preventing from damages to the roadsbelong to Pradeshiya Sabha and obstructions to the road transport.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the subsection 126 (vii)(c) and (e) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) ofPradeshiya Sabhas Act, No 15 of 1987

(4)(i)In event entry is required any plot of land through drain that related to any road ofPradeshiya Sabha ,it shall be duty of the owner or occupier of that land to constructa bridge, a platform or an arch with approval of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(ii)In the event of using Pradeshiya Sabha roads to transport timber, sands or metal, aformal permit shall have to be obtained to resolve the cost of damages that wouldoccur in the process, paying different feesfor different type of vehicles which shallbe determined from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabhas and published by Gazettenotification.

(5) No person shall cause any damage to roadway that belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabhas orcarry out any of the following activities(i)Selling(ii)Parking of vehicles in a place other than in the places reserved for the purpose bythe Pradeshiya Sabha unless it is due to some reasons making it impossible to startthe vehicle in order to take it out of the park or to drive it out of the park due tosome other damage caused.(iii)Repairing or washing vehicles(iv)Stockpiling condemned parts of Vehicles(v)Unloading or stockpiling metal, sand, barrels, soil, bricks or planks ,except in thecase of effecting repairs to a road as determined by the Chairman or PradeshiyaSabha.

(6) No person shall fill or damage a drain situated along any road or obstruct the free flow ofwater along any drain.

(7) While no person shall make any construction within twenty five feet (7.62 metre) from thecentral line of any road in which street line have not been demarcated for a road more than fifty feet(15.24 metres) wide under the provision of section 19 of housing and Town Improvement Act, actionshall not be taken to stock any building material brought for any other construction on any road or onany part of that road.

(8) No person shall act in contravention to an order made by the Pradeshiya Sabha AuthorizedOfficer under By-Law No. 19 of these By-Laws or obstruct or cause to be obstructed any person actionunder such order

(9) No person shall gather, heap or remove stones, barrels, sand, soil or any other materialalong the road that belong to the Pradeshiya Sabha except order in writing made by Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legistrativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted

Tasks should notbe executed (5 –18)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201666A

Function of thePradeshiya Sabha

Charges and fees

(10) Waste water flowing from any land or from a building located in it, shall have to be divertedto a suction pit, and shall not be diverted to any road or to a drain that runs alongside the road, except inthe case of rain water that falls on the land, the roof of the building and excreted water from the wellwhen it is cleaned, located on the land.

(11) No person shall transport dust, sand or any other similar thing by any vehicle on a PradeshiyaSabha roads unless such vehicle is converted to prevent emission of such thing.

(12) No person shall destroy , pull down or deface, fall down any milestone, mile post, boundarystore, boundary post , lamp post, guard post, bridge, culvert, wall, arch, dam, drain, shine ,retaining wall,hand rail, chain, fence, name board, sign board belongs to any Avenue or cause damages, to them or affixto them any poster, notice, hand bill

(13) No person shall remove any fence, post, stone, log or any other obstruction placed orerected on any road, on the direction of any proper authority for the avoidance of use of such roadtemporarily or repairing it.

(14) No vehicle or cart shall not be driven or ridden or parked on the road with any log, plank,iron bar or any other such thing as ejected side wards of the wheels.

(15) No person shall not drag or make drag any log or any other such thing on vehicle or cart onroads as to damage the roads.

(16) No person shall construct or try to construct ridge, pit, channel, or pipeline of water on oracross any road and shall not break or damage the surface of any road in anyway.

(17) No vehicle, tare of which does not exceed five tons, shall run on concreted roads or roadspaved with sliced stones.

(18) The permit issued under this By-Laws only a permit to use Pradeshiya Sabha’s roads andthat shall not be considered as a permit to transport any goods.

(19) For the purpose of maintaining or repairing or renovating any road that belongs to thePradeshiya Sabha ,the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to issue orders to

(i)Close down for vehicular traffic for any period of time, the whole length of theroad or a part there of or any lane of the road in any direction.

(ii)Stock any building materials on any section of the road

(iii)Entering into any plot of land by the side of the relevant road to store some buildingmaterial on it. (necessary notification to land owner for the above action his consentshall be obtain as possible )

(iv)Allow passage for vehicles through that land without causing any damage to properlyon that land (necessary notification to land owner for the above action his consentshall be obtain as possible )

(20) It shall be lawful to Pradeshiya Sabha as per section 95 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15of 1987 to recover fees for permit determined by Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time to transportgoods specified in the By-Laws section No. 4

67AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws (24-25)

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

(21) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(22) The permit issued as per this By-Laws is valid for the day unless it is canceled earlierfurther it is also valid for the number of time specified in the permit.

(23)Any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.

(24) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence.

(25) When action has been taken by any person in violation of provisions in the By-Laws section07 to stock any building material on any road or part there of possessed by Pradeshiya Sabha it shall belawful for the Chairman orAuthorized Officer or an Authorized Officer to take action to remove thosematerials from the spot or to take possession of those materials. The person or Pradeshiya Sabha thattook action to remove the material out of the road shall not be subjected to responsibility in regardingto any shortfall, loss or damage caused to the person who stocked the relevant material on road, due tothe actions taken by the Chairman or Authorized Officer in the above manner. Furthermore, the Chairmanor Authorized Officer shall not be subjected to pay any amount of compensation in respect of materialso removed.

(26) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law whichhas the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(27) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires-“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Road” means any road ,highway, lane ,avenue,street,pair of steps,stepping lock or pedestrianbridge owned by Pradeshiya Sabha and it shall also include any directional sign ,demarcationstone, demarcation post, lamp post, bridge, any type of culvert,water crossing, parapet wall,arch, bund, drain,sluice,supportive bund, hand rail,chain,fence,sign board, road sign orpavement by side of the road fixed or erected in relation to any road, highway , lane ,street,avenue,pair of steps possessed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Vehicle” means any motor vehicle in conformity with the definition given in the motor trafficact in respect of any motor vehicle and bullock cart, bicycle, hand cart with wheel or anyother vehicle that run by engine or any other way not coming under motor traffic Act .

“Causing damage,” means destroying, removing, disfiguring, toppling, unfastening, disposingor causing damage some other way. Pasting a poster paint, tar or any other glue alteringletters of a name -board, including erasing, scraping or unfastening, excluding any such ofactivities caused and in connection with effecting repairs to the road by the Pradeshiya Sabhaor Chairman, Authorized Officer or the Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201668A

Part III - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, control and monitorof laundries within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,monitor and control of laundries within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made of the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of1987.

(3)The By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126 (ix)(s) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section122 (1) of Pradeshiya SabhasAct, No. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any laundries by the Chairman or Authorized Officer ofPradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are fulfilled.

(i)The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed status(ii)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or approved stonesand plastered and painted in both sides.

(iii)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5metre from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be atleast 1 meter

(iv)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3.0 metresfrom floor level.

(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi)Separate rooms shall be provided for storage of soiled linen and clean linenrespectively.

(vii)Lavatories shall be constructed for the use of employees separately for males andfemales, at the ratio of one lavatory for every ten persons.

(viii)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed after washing cloth at thepremises to the said drainage system in the manner prescribed by the PradeshiyaSabha. Otherwise, action shall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pitor waste water shall be treated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakagepit shall be covered without mixing with air and it shall be constructed at leastfifteen metre away from the constructed well

(ix)At the licensed premises, general fire extinguishing equipment shall be maintainedin working condition, and if electricity supply has been provided to the place,electrical fire-fighting appliances shall be provided in addition.

(x)It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at thelicensed laundry, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-5)

69AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(6) No person shall run a laundry within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he orshe has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(7)(i)Every licensed laundry shall not be used for household activities at any time.(ii)Every licensed laundry shall not be used to keep any animal or allowed to be usedfor such purposes(iii)Every licensed laundry shall not be used to keep soiled and washed clothes mixedor allowed to be used in that manner(iv)No permit holder shall use any kind of unauthorized chemicals or allergic item forwashing clothes.(v)Facilities shall be made to dispose waste of charcoal or any other kind of coal in aseparate bin after extinguishing with water. Further coconut shell or any other thingsshall not be burned at the license premises for the preparation of charcoal..(vi)No permit holder shal wash at any place except place allowed or reserved by thePradeshiya Sabha.(vii)It is the responsibility of licensee to ensure that every laundryman shall alwaysbefore leaving the laundry for the day extinguish or cause to be extinguished everyfire or light used by him, and no light or fire which is dangerous to the safety of anybuilding or the clothes therein shall be at any time kindled or left alight

(8)(i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a personwho has recently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recentlynursing anybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completedthe period mentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work ofthe authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place,unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii)No person or persons should be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in clean clothes ;

(9) In the event of the premises where any laundry is maintained under a licence issued underthe By-Laws any licence contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman or Authorized Officershall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(10) Under the sub section149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 to run any laundry,the Secretary has the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated

(11) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(12) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(13) (i)The Chairman or Authorized Officer or has the powers to inspect the standards ofthese By-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.

(ii)It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under theprovisions of these By-Laws, to the Chairman or Authorized Officer for inspection,and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection.

(14) Any licensee who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law 9, shall act as stipulated inthe notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman or anAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shallnot be exceeded 14 days.

Tasks not to becarried out (6 – 8)

Function of thePradeshiya Sabha

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (13-15)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201670A

(15) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in section 14 in these By-Laws fails toact as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(16) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(17) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(18) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convictedafter a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabha limitsliable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. Furtherin case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has thejurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(19) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.’

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these by laws ofthe hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Laundry” means any type of building or any plot of land or place or premises used by anyperson pursuing an enterprise as a cleaner of clothes for the purpose of washing clothes,drying clothes, dry cleaning clothes or for ironing clothes. It shall also include any buildingused to store such clothes and any well, tank or other source of water used for the purposesof the enterprise by such a person.

Schedule - 01

Application for obtaining laundry licence 20….. within the area of authority ofPradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business centre:—————————.2. Place of the Business centre:—————————.(i) Ward No.:—————————.(ii) Assessment No.:—————————.(iii) Name of the Road/Street:—————————.(iv) GN Division No. & Name:—————————.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines andPanalties

Interpretation anddefinition

71AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.(i)Full Name:—————————.(ii)Permanent Address:—————————.(iii)GN Division No & Name:—————————.(iv)NIC No.:—————————.(v)Telephone No.:—————————.(vi)E-mail Address:—————————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning:—————————.(ii)Type of business(Washing Cloths, ironing / washing with ironing ,dry cleaning ):———.(iii)Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:———————.(iv)Previous Business:—————————.

5.(i)Whether washing place is attached with the business centre or it is at any other place?(ii)Whether required drainage system has been made accordance with the By-Laws, if washingplace is attached with: ———————.(iii)Whether approval has been obtained to the separate washing place if so:——————.

6. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:——————.(ii)Address:————————.

7. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No:———————.

If last year licence was obtained,Licence No.:———————.Date:————————.

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant

For office useFor report as follows

………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201672A

For the report of revenue department,

1. Type of business:……………………………………………………………………………2. Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3. Remarks:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………… ………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Approved/Not Approved

……………………….………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Department

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of theReceipt:…………………………….License No.:………………………………. Date of theLicense:………………………….....Recommended to issue License.

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Seretary

Signed

………………….…………………………………………DatePradeshiya SabhaChairman/Authorized Officer.

73AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

CHAPTER 4

Part I -Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate,regularize, supervise and control theadvertisement within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as standard By-Laws relating to formulate,regularize,control and supervise advertisement displaying within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of control and administrate in order to ensureprotection, comfort and Convenience of the People residing within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the Sub section 126(vii) (f) and (xxx)of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (2) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(4)(i)Anybody who expects to obtain a licence to display any advertisement within thelimits of Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an application substantially prepared inaccordance with the specimen given in Schedule-01 to the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer at least four days before the date on which the said advertisement is expectedto be displayed.

(ii)The license shall be issued to any advertisement by the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer of Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the conditions specified in these By-Laws areduly fulfilled.

(5)(i)Every application forwarded to obtain a licence shall contain a specimen of theadvertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 millimetres by 297millimetres and a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisementis expected to be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297mm. Moreover, the exact length and the width of the advertisement shall have beenindicated therein.

(ii)When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed, happens to be a placeowned by any person other than the applicant, or by any other institution writtenevidence ensuring that permission has been granted to display the advertisement atthe Particular Place shall have been submitted.

(6) It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number of the licence issued inrespect of all notifications to be displayed in the lower edge of the right hand side of each advertisementor advertisements while such display is done.

(7) It shall be the duty of the licensee to take action to remove the advertisement and all theother goods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place,within forty eight hours from the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in the applicationforwarded to obtain a licence under these By-laws in this part.

(8)(i)The charges of advertisement may be exempted and licence in that behalf shall beobtained from the Chairman or Authorized Officer for an advertisement relating toany entertainment the net proceeds are to be used for purpose of charity, anadvertisement relating to an entertainment to held in the premises upon which suchadvertisement is displayed, an advertisement display by the Government or ProvincialCouncil or Local Authority and an advertisement relating to a religious , politicalor public meeting which has no connection directly or indirectly to a business.Provided that in any advertisement and sign is illuminated advertisement and skysign permits shall be obtained by paying fees as specified in these By-Laws.

Name of By-Laws.

Objective.

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-12)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201674A

(ii)When any notice of advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayedtogether with the name, number and address of any business enterprise and when anadvertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in anyhousehold, such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisionsof these By-laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of theadministration of the premises for the time being shall be considered as the personwho shall obtain the licence in respect of provisions of these By-Laws.

(iii)The charges and fees shall be exempted for the display in front of any businesspremise or any factory within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha , to asingle notice depicting the name, address and the nature of the enterprise beingmaintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being producedat the factory, for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carryingthe phrase “on lease” or “for sale” or “available for rent” displayed on any propertyintended to be given in lease or for sale or to be given on rent. But all other conditionsspecified in these By-Laws shall apply to the above advertisement. However, at anytime when more than one such advertisement is displayed the provisions of theseBy-Laws shall apply in respect of all such additional advertisements.

(9) The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for the displaying of advertisement shall(i)maintain such hoarding in a proper condition of repair and security, and

(ii)exhibit his name, address and telephone number of advertiser in clear and legiblecharacters in a conspicuous position on the front of such hoarding.

(10) Any sky sign shall be erected in such a way that it shall not be dangerous to the personswho use the road or the pavement and if in any circumstance, any person is getting injured or damage iscaused to the properties by falling down such sky sign, the owner of such sky sign shall pay the damagesto that person or owner of properties for lost sustained and the Chairman or Authorized Officer of thePradeshiya Sabha shall be exempted of payment of such damages.

(11) Sky sign board shall be constructed and erected in a manner which is approved by theEngineer.

(12)(i)The licensee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harmcaused or likely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thingused in this connection utilized for the construction of any advertisement or due tothe menacing or connotation implied in the said advertisement.

(ii)The Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be responsible in any way for removing, damagingor disfiguring of an advertisement obtained under the licence for exhibiting.

(13)(i)Unless any person has a valid licence issued on the application prepared accordingto the specimen found in the first Schedule for the particular purpose by theChairmanor Authorized Officer, nobody shall display or cause to be displayed anadvertisement in any form so as to be seen when looked at from any public place inthe area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(ii)Even after obtaining a valid licence for display of advertisements nobody shall displayor let anybody else to display, at any place other than at a place or places specificallystated in the relevant licence, to be seen when worked at from any public place.

Tasks not to becarried out( 13 – 20).

75AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(14) The period of validity of the licence already issued to any other licensee in respect of theplace for which the licence is currently requested shall have been completed further there shall besufficient place to display the advertisement. However, this provision shall not be an obstacle to issue alicence to display an advertisement board nearby so as not to obstruct the viewing of the advertisementbeing displayed under a licence previously issued and still in force.

(15)(i)The advertisement for which a display licence is sought shall not contain any scenesor words which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture orharming any religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.

(ii)It shall not be displayed any advertisement prohibited or limited by a written law ofthe country.

(16) Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accidentto a person walking hear the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover,fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving avehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be done.

(17) No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed or affixed or attached any placeof public worship or park or any bridge or street or electrical post or any tree or branch close to themor any public building connected with them.

(18) An advertisement to be displayed in such manner as to project over or across any pavementcarriage way of any street or road unless such advertisement is displayed affixed or attached to anoverhead bridge constructed for the use of pedestrian or is a projecting sign board constructed or erectedin a manner approved by the engineer.

(19) No person shall cause

(i).any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner or in such form otherthan that approved by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(ii).in addition to the approval given by the Pradeshiya Sabha, any vehicle bearing anyilluminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent of police, shall bedriven on any street or road .

(20) Any licence issued under By-Law to display an advertisement shall not be considered orconstructed any legal permission given to profess its implied meaning for expression.

(21)(i)The Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine to which areas belong to the Pradeshiya Sabhaare allowed to display advertisements within the area of authority of the PradeshiyaSabha.

(ii)When conditions necessary for the issue of a licence under the By-laws in this partin respect of any application submitted have been fulfilled the Chairman orAuthorized Officer shall inform the applicant about it. It shall be the duty of theChairman or Authorized Officer to issue the licence to the applicant after payingthe fees for the licence in the manner set out in section 25(i) and fees for thesecurity deposit set out in section 22(i) of By-Law, after receipt of the above notice.

(iii)It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish a notificationin the Gazette, the areas determined from time to time, where advertisement couldbe displayed or exhibited .Such notification shall take effect from the date of itspublication, or from whatsoever date specified therein.

Functions of thePradeshiya Sabha( 21 – 24)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201676A

(iv)The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to construct or maintain an advertisementboard Under these By-Laws as determined by Pradeshiya Sabha in any land belongsto any person and given to the Pradeshiya Sabha on agreement or in any land belongsto the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(v) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to recover the fees already fixed by thePradeshiya Sabha from the licensee to display any advertisement on the boardconstructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha under above sub section (ii).

(vi)Publishing of notice in Government Gazette regarding the fees for advertisementlicence is duty of Chairman or Authorized Officer as specified in above paragraph(i) in these By–Law No .25.

(22)(i)when a decision has been made to issue a licence in respect of any applicationforwarded for the purpose of displaying an advertisement the Chairman orAuthorized Officer shall not issue the licence for the said application until theapplicant has deposited security money in the Pradeshiya Sabha at the rates to bedetermined by it from time to time.

(ii)It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to publish in the Gazetteabout the decision taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of the rate of the securitydeposit to be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to issuing a licence to displayany advertisement.

(23)(i)After taking action to remove the advertisement in the manner set out in By-LawNo. 7 , the licensee shall be able to withdraw the deposit money already depositedat the Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of the relevant licence on a written requestmade to the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(ii)On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (i) it shall be theduty of Chairman or Authorized Officer to ensure,

(a)the licensee has properly accomplished the provisions stated in By-laws,No. 7;(b)and that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabhano damage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said advertisement ordue to any other cause, the licensee is held responsible, before releasing thesaid deposit money to the said licensee.

(iii)Unless the Chairman or Authorized Officer is satisfied when ensuring in the mannerset out in paragraph ii (b) that the licensee has acted in the manner stated in the By-laws, No. 7 and that no damage is caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha,the said deposit money shall not be released fully to the licensee. When any licenseehas avoided acting in the manner stated in By-laws No. 7 or when any damage hasbeen caused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, suitable action shall be takento deduct from the deposit money expenditure that the Pradeshiya Sabha wouldhave to bear to effect the particular task or to repair the hoarding or to accomplishboth, and only the balance remaining shall be refunded to the licensee.

(iv)When the money leviable by the Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in the mannerstated in paragraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licensee shallpay the extra money payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha.

77AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(v)However Security deposit shall be refunded within fourteen days on request madeby the licensee in written. If not, reason shall be notified within fourteen days tothe licensee for what reason the security deposit could not be refunded.

(24) Action shall be taken to remove all advertisements displayed without a licence issued bythe Pradeshiya Sabha and to take into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha or remove in a mannerdecided by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(25) (i)Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, the Secretaryhas the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amountstated to display any advertisement, further

(a)Advertisement rent and fees shall be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha under para21(v) to display any advertisement on the board constructed at the placebelonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha under these By-Laws. or

(b)Applicant shall pay the advertisement fees determined by the Pradeshiya Sabhafrom time to time to display any advertisement on the board fixed where landis belonging to the applicant or any other person or other institution .

(ii)Further security deposit shall be paid as specified in By-Law 22

(iii)Person who has applied for a temporary licence to display any advertisement shallpay licence fee according to the decision made by the Pradeshiya Sabha from timeto time.

(iv)when it is required to display an advertisement during the succeeding year after theexpiry of the period of validity of the licence currently issued for the display of anyadvertisement a new licence shall have been obtained on displaying the notice forsuch succeeding year.

(v)However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Pradeshiya Sabhaas charges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of licence tobe issued for the display of advertisements, the same licence fees determined earliershall be recovered for the new licence to be issued for the display of the saidadvertisement.

(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha

(27) (i)Validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expireon 31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless itsvalidity is cancelled earlier

(ii) Temporary licence shall be valid for days for which licence has been issued unlessits validity is cancelled earlier

(28) (i)When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixingof any advertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger orrisk to anybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or Authorized Officerorthe Authorized Officer shall have the power to direct the licensee through an orderto bring it back to proper conditions within two weeks.

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201678A

(ii)It shall be lawful to cancel the issued licence for such advertisement and removethe advertisement by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or Authorized Officer,when anybody in receipt of a notification under paragraph (i) has avoided acting inthe manner provided by the provisions of the notification.

(iii)when any licence has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (ii) thesecurity deposit, deposited at the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying thatadvertisement shall acqure to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody elseshall have the right to claim the deposit money.

(iv)It shall be lawful Chairman or Authorized Officer to issue temporary licence forless than fourteen days as required, However all conditions are applicable to issuetemporary licence.

(29) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by thisofficer

(30) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsshall be an offence.

(31) When any provision in these By-laws has been violated, the Authorized Officer or theAuthorized Officer shall have the power to cancel any licence issued having invited the attention inrespect of such violations.

(32) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convictedafter a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabha limitsliable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. Furtherin case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has thejurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2)

(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means period from the time of sun shininguntil the time of sun setting.

“Engineer” meansEngineer or Qualified Technical Officer given authority in writing by theChairman to carry out particular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Lawsof the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws (30-31)

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

79AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision.“Superintendent of police” means, an officer in police station given authority for the specifiedpurpose in writing by the office in charge of the police headquarters.

“Cut-out” means, an advertisement fixed or pasted to a frame made up of woodor some othermaterial ;

“Display board” means, whatsoever permanent board constructed for fixing or hanging anadvertisementdisplayed for the information and attention of the public ;

“Advertisement” means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model ornotice or announcement or business notification containing any letters or words orillustrations used in advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building orany vehicle or a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention of thepublic and put in place by pasting, fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;

PRADESHIYA SABHA

Application for the Advertisement1.Full Name :—————————.2.Address:—————————.3.N.I.C.No:—————————.4.Mobile No:—————————.5.E-Mail Address:—————————.6.Advertisement model annexed:—————————.7.Location map annexed:—————————.8.Type of Advertisement:- One side/ Double sides/ Lighted:—————————.9.Duration:- From:—————. To:—————.10.Size of Advertisement:-Length —————. Width:—————. Height:—————.

I agree that if above mentioned information is against the true and fair view. my holding will be convertedto municipal property without any notice.

…………………. ……………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office useFor report as follows………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized officer

Chief Revenue Inspector.Fitting advertisement in size of ........................... at the specified place is suitable/ is not suitable………………… …………………………………Date Revenue Inspector.

SecretaryFitting of the above advertisement is recommended/ not recommended…………………… ……………………………………DateChief Revenue Inspector.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201680A

Secretary,

Size of Advertisement: Length ................ Wide ................... Area ( square meter ) ................

DetailPrivate LandRDD RoadRDA RoadMC LandMC Road

Agreement is madeYes/No

Land Rent(Rs200*sq)

Advertisement Fees (Rs100*sq)

Total Fees

Vat

NBT

Total Amount

……………………. ………………………………………Date Management Assistant

Above advertisement is approved / not approved

…………………… ……………………………Date Secretary

For the report of Revenue BranchReceipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....Recommended to issue License.

………………………………..Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Signed

……………………………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

Above advertisement has been / not has been fitted at proper place with right size.

………………… ……………………………………..Date Field officer/ Technical officer. (Planning section)

81AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Part II - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize , supervise ,control andadministrate of the parking of vehicles of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the standard By-laws relating to control, regularize,supervise and administer parking of vehicle within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting of passengers preventing accidentsand controlling traffic jam by maintaining vehicle parks in suitable places within the limit of PradeshiyaSabha area.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section126(vii) (h) read with sub section 122(1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987.

(4) Any driver of a vehicle being driven along any street or road located within or lying alongthe area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall obey the Provisions depicted in a road sign or signsfixed under the Provisions in paragraph (ii) of By-Laws No.23.

(5) Action shall be taken to display easily readable notices in the three languages at the entryand the exit for the convenience of the vehicles arriving at the vehicle park. Moreover, arrows with whitelines 20 centimeters wide shall be marked so as to enable the drivers to easily recognize the directionsthey shall follow while entering into the vehicle park and leaving it.

(6) The floor of every vehicle park shall be tarred or laid with concrete. Separate lavatoriesshall have been made available for the males and females using the vehicle park. At the same time sufficientdrains shall have been constructed for the free flow of water accumulated at the site.

(7) When accommodation is made to park vehicles at any vehicle park, sufficient traffic lanesshall be made available for the convenience of vehicles entering and leaving the premises

(8) When any vehicle is being driven or being parked within the vehicle park sufficient spaceshall be made available in it to park each vehicle so as not to cause any obstruction to those alreadyparked within. Moreover, a white line of 10 centimetres wide shall be marked to indicate the spaceallocated to each vehicle in the park.

(9) (i).(a)Any employee of the Pradeshiya Sabha; or

(b)Any successful bidder selected by the Pradeshiya Sabha after calling for tendersor a person named by the particular bidder, hereinafter referred to as the “VehiclePark Warden” shall be employed by the Pradeshiya Sabha to collect chargesmade on vehicles parked in the vehicle park.

(ii).However, while the fees charged for parking vehicles in any vehicle park shall notexceed the fees decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha in the manner stated in these By-Laws, the fees charged for parking each vehicle shall be noted down in a receiptsubstantially prepared according to the first schedule in this part and issued to thedriver.

(10) (i).It shall be the duty of the Vehicle Park Warden to issue an Admission Card indicatingpermission to enter and prepared substantially in accordance with the secondschedule in this part to the driver of the vehicle at the entrance to the Park when avehicle of any type allowed to be parked under By law No. 26(ii) enters the vehiclepark.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201682A

(ii)Before leaving the vehicle park, it shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicleparked in the vehicle park to -

(a)return the card mentioned in paragraph (i) to the vehicle park warden,

(b)pay to the vehicle park wardenfees for suitable parking place decided uponby the Pradeshiya Sabha in the manner set out in By-Law No. 28

(c)Obtain a suitable receipt mentioned in paragraph (b) of By-Laws No. 9(ii).

(11) It shall be the duty of the owner or the driver of any vehicle parked within any vehicle parkto submit for inspection the admission card issued in respect of the vehicle when the Chairman or anyAuthorized Officer or the Vehicle Park Warden or any Police Officer requests it for inspection.

(12) Accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws to park the following vehicles in a vehiclepark within limits of Pradeshiya Sabha area any fees shall not be paid. However provision of these By-Laws shall apply to any vehicle belonging to the below said vehicles.

(a)government vehicles,

(b)vehicles of the Provincial Council,

(c)Vehicles of a local authority established within the Province,

(d)Any vehicle parked on maintain and repairs for the services, belonging toWater supply, Telecommunication and Electricity Board. Further By-LawNo. 28 shall be applicable to any vehicle belongs to a governmentcorporation or a statutary board.

(13) (i)It shall be lawful to the Chairmanor Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer orthe Vehicle Park Warden to take action to remove any vehicle parked in the vehiclepark without a valid admission card. Assistance of the police may be seeked for thisaction.

(ii)When so removed, the owner of the vehicle or the driver shall not be entitled to anycompensation to be claimed from the Pradeshiya Sabha or the officer who removedthat vehicle, for any damage caused to such vehicle. The owner or driver of thevehicle shall haveto pay the Pradeshiya Sabha, the expenses of drawing the vehiclesafe keeping expenses and the other expenses assessed by the Chairman, AuthorizedOfficer or vehicle parked warden, for release of such vehicles

(iii)Every permit issued under these By-Laws shall contain the distinctive number ofthe motor vehicle in respect of which it is issued and it shall be valid for the periodstated in the permit.

(iv)Every person who obtains a permit under these By-Laws shall display such permitin a conspicuous place within the vehicle so that it may be visible from outside thevehicle

(14) A permit may be obtained by anyone on an agreement monthly having paid such feedetermined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for special parking place introduced by thePradeshiya Sabha

83AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(15) A parking place may be reserved for any institution on an agreement having paid such feedetermined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

(16) No person shall run any private parking place without licence obtained from PradeshiyaSabha

(17) Notwithstanding anything stated in the By-Law 4 the limitations prescribed by any roadsign fixed on the decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha under the provisions of By-LawNo. 23 shall not apply in respect of,

(i)fire fighting vehicle or any other vehicle of the Pradeshiya Sabha used for the purposeof control any fire or any disaster occurring at any building or close to a building inany section of the street or road;

(ii)acting in accordance with an order issued appropriately by any Police Officer inorder to prevent any traffic jam occurring in any street or road or on any particularsection of the street or road or in order to control any unexpected situationoccurring in the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha, and it shall not beconsidered as a violation of the provisions in By-Law 4.

(18)(i)Any person shall not park or drive into a vehicle park or allow to be driven in to thepark any vehicle or a vehicle which is not a motor vehicle, unless it is a vehicle ofthe type decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha to be allowed into the Park for parking.

(ii)When there is sufficient space at the entry gate for any vehicle arriving at the vehiclepark to tow away any vehicle parked inside it when it is found impossible to start, inorder to take it out of the park, the provisions in paragraph (i) shall not apply for theother vehicles. However, such towing shall not be made in a manner causing anyobstacle or harm to other vehicles parked in the vehicle park.

(19) Any person shall not, -

(i)wash a vehicle or cause a vehicle to be washed;

(ii)make any repairs other than an essential repair in order to start the vehicle orchanging a tyre for the purpose of taking the vehicle out of the vehicle park;

(iii) Make any noise which is considered unnecessary or oppressive when any repairmentioned in paragraph (b) are carried out.

(iv)park the vehicle in any place in the vehicle park other than where it was originallyparked without permission from the Vehicle Park Warden;

(v)park vehicles so as to block the lanes of the vehicle park or the gates at the entryand the exit;

(vi)blow the alarm instruments fixed in the vehicle except for the purpose preventingan accident or ensuring the safety of the occupants in the vehicle.

(vii)blow the horn of any vehicle parked or entering or leaving the vehicle park,

(viii)Consume liquor or spit after chewing betel leaves or use indecent language or createcommotion or engage in immoral activities, in any vehicle park.

(20) The responsibility in regard to the damage of any vehicle parked in any vehicle park shallbe liable with the person who park it in the vehicle park. The Pradeshiya Sabha, the Chairman, AuthorizedOfficer or the Vehicle Park Warden shall not be subjected to responsibility in regard to any loss or harmcaused within the vehicle park.

Tasks not to becarried out(16 – 22)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201684A

(21) No vehicle shall on any occasion be driven in the opposite direction to that which ismarked in the lane within any vehicle park in the manner set out in By-Laws No. 5.

(22) No person shall harm or deface any construction made or instrument found in any vehiclepark.

(23) (i).The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to -

(a)ban the parking of vehicles

(b)limit the parking of vehicles;

(c)allow parking on one side only;

(d)ban or limit the loading or unloading of goods;

(e)ban loading and unloading of passengers;

(f)name bus stops;

(g)name one way streets and roads and to determine the direction of traffic ;

(h)Naming of public parking place for parking of vehicle. on any section of anystreet or road in the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha;

(ii).It shall be the duty of the Chairmanor Authorized Officer to take action to fix roadsigns on limitations at relevant places after placing any limitations under paragraph(i). While these road signs on the limitations shall be in accordance with provisionspublished in the Gazette Extra-ordinary No. 448/18 dated 13th March 1987, havingbeen made by the Minister under Section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act read withsection 164 of the said Act, they are subject to amendments made from time totime.

(24) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take steps to remove garbagecollected within the premises of every vehicle park every day and to clean the lavatories using disinfectantdaily.

(25) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to take action to see that everyVehicle Park Warden on duty is dressed in a suit to be decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha and which wouldallow easy identification of the Park Warden.

(26)(i)The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to allocate, -

(a)any plot of land owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha ;or(b)Any plot of land owned by any other Authority, (according to an agreement enteredinto with such Authority) for the purpose of parking motor vehicles, hereinafterreferred to as “the vehicle park”, within the area of authority of the PradeshiyaSabha.

(ii)The Pradeshiya Sabha shall decide from time to time the type of vehicles that shallbe parked in any vehicle park and the maximum

(iii)It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Authorized Officer to display at the entranceprominently in the three languages the amount of money decided upon by thePradeshiya Sabha as charges for parking of any type of vehicle in any vehicle park.

(27) At least two gates shall be made available in every vehicle park, one as a point of entry andthe other as an exit. However, in the event of allocating a separate area in the park for the sole purpose ofmoving vehicles and allowing double lanes for vehicular traffic, with sufficient space at the gate it shallbe in order to have only one gate for entry as well as exit.

Function of thePradeshiya Sabha(23 - 27 )

85AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(28) (i)A fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, shall be recovered forparking any vehicle at parking place belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(ii)Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, Secretaryhasthe authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount statedto run private parking of vehicle.

(iii)A fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time shall be recovered forparking of vehicle in private parking place. Further,25 percentage of recoveries forparking of vehicle decided by Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, shall be paid tothe Pradeshiya Sabha. A separate agreement also shall be made with the privateparking holders. The receipts books approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha only shallbe used for their collections by the private parking holders.

(iv)If the vehicles are parked during the night in the parking places belonging toPradeshiya Sabha, a fee specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time shallbe paid in that behalf.

(v)Further it shall be lawful to the Pradeshiya Sabha to assign the recovery of fees forpublic parking place belongs to Pradeshiya Sabha on annual lease to the lessee.

(vi)However details of all fees shall be published in the Government Gazette of SriLanka.

(29) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the Secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(30) (i)These By-Laws shall be in operation on days and times determined by the PradeshiyaSabha from time to time. If not so, the operation time shall be from 6.00 a.m to9.00 p.m.

(ii)The validity of every private licence issued under the provision of these By-Lawsshall expire on 31st December of each year for which the license has been issued,unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(31) The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer or anAuthorized Officer under the provisions of these By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when aparking place in open for parking.

(32) It shall be duty to co-operate the permit holder who have received permit under theprovisions, to the Chairman or Authorized Officer or any authorized officer for inspection, and shall notmake obstacle to stop such inspection.

(33) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(34) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(35) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of lawwhich has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (31 – 32)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation ofBy-laws

Fines andpenalties

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201686A

(36) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act;

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.;

“Permit holder” means any person whosoever obtained a permit issued by the Chairman orAuthorized Officer or authorized office under the provision of these by law for parking ofvehicle at the parking place;

“Road” means a road, highway, lane, avenue, street, pair of steps, stepping log or bridge and itshall also include any directional sign, boundary stone, boundary post, lamp post, bridge,any type of arch, water crossing, parapet wall, arch, bund, drain, sluice gate, supportive bund,hand rail, chain, fence, signboard, highway name board or pavement by the side of the roadfixed or attached to a thoroughfare, road, highway, lane, street, by-lane, steps owned by thePradeshiya Sabha ;

“Vehicle” shall be interpreted in the same way as it is given in the Motor Traffic Act and itincludes a cart, bicycle or any mechanism with wheels and operated mechanically or in anyother way.

Schedule -1

Paragraph (ii) of By-law No .09

…………………………. Pradeshiya Sabha

……………………….. Vehicle Park

Fees for parking vehicle

Receipt No. :—————.

Vehicle No.:—————.

Date :—————.

Time of Arrival :………………….. a.m./ p.m.

Time of Departure :………………….. a.m./ p.m.Charged fees :(Rs)

Schedule 2

Paragraph (i) of By-law No. 10

Front Page of the card

…………………………. Pradeshiya Sabha

……………………….. Vehicle Park

Back page of card

This card should not be transferred.To be handed over when leaving vehicle park.

Interpretation anddefinition.

87AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Part III-Standard By-Laws relating to regularize,formulate,control and monitor ofconstruction and maintenance of swimming pool within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-laws in this part are cited as the By-laws in relating to regularize, formulate, control andmonitor of construction and maintenance of swimming pools within the area of authority of thePradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of ensuring maintenance of security andpublic health in proper standard of the swimming pool within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per thesection 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126(ix) (s) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas ActNo. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) If only the following conditions in the By-Laws of this part are fulfilled the AuthorizedOfficer shall issue a licence to any swimming pool.

(i)Sufficient provisions shall have been made to supply water made available forpre-baths and the swimming pool according to the standards prescribed by theMedical Officer of Health ;

(ii)Necessary arrangements shall have been put in place to use sufficient disinfectantsfor supplies of water mentioned in paragraph (i) ;

(iii)Shower-roses shall be provided for a pre-bath before swimming in the pool ;

(iv)with a view to purifying and disinfecting the entire water capacity in the saidswimming pool twice within a period of twenty four hours, a set of strainers withpumps circulating water shall have been fixed; with a view to purifying anddisinfecting, a set of strainers with pumps circulating water shall have been fixed ;

(v)The depth of the swimming pool shall be clearly marked on the platform of theswimming pool ;

(vi)A hand-rails and a ladders made of stainless steel shall have been fixed to enter intothe swimming pool and get out of it, at a distance of at least 8 meters all around theSwimming Pool ;

(vii)The swimming pool shall be fixed with distinctive colored tiles so that the bottomas well as the walls of the pool are clearly visible after it has been filled with water

(viii)If children under twelve years are allowed to swim in the pool, a separate sectionwith a depth of not more than one meters shall have been constructed for suchpurposes.

(ix)if towers have been constructed to facilitate diving into the swimming pool theyshall have been constructed in concrete and a strong ladder built with iron or steelshall have been fixed ;

(x)A sufficient programme of life saving and first-aid shall have been put in place ;

(xi)Separate dressing rooms and lavatories shall be made available to males and femalesusing the swimming pool ;

(xii)The floors of dressing rooms and bathroom shall be well drained and maintained ina clean conditions and shall be treated daily with a suitable disinfectant.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-10)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201688A

(xiii)if swimming is allowed after 6.30 p.m., sufficient electric light shall be madeavailable to the interior as well as the exterior of the pool site ;

(xiv)Visible foreign material that may float on the surface of swimming pool water shallbe removed daily.

(xv)The enclosure of the area of every swimming pool shall be kept in good repair andshall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times

(xvi)A drainage system to allow free flow of water used in lavatories and bathing spotsshall be made available ;

(xvii)The waste materials deposited in the bottom shall be disposed of at least oncedaily;

(xviii)The entire water capacity of the swimming pool shall be purified and disinfected atleast twice a day;

(xix)Every swimming pool that is in use shall be equipped with test kits or testingequipment for measuring :

(a)residual disinfectant;(b)the pH (Hydrogen iron concentration);(c)the total alkanity and ; where Cyanotic Acid or one of the Chlorinatedisocyanurates is used.(d)concentration of cyanuric acid in the swimming pool water.

(6)(i)While a programme prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha Medical Officer of Healthshall have been put in place for disinfecting the water filled in the swimming poolinstruments recommended by him shall also be made available.

(ii)The floor and the walls of the lavatories and the places where shower roses havebeen provided for pre-baths shall be tiled.

(7)(i)All swimming pools when in use shall be continuously disinfected by a chemicaland/or process which meets all of the following requirements :

(a)That the disinfectant or disinfecting process is a standard one for potable water;(b)That it imparts a residual effect which may be easily and accurately measuredby a field test procedure;(c)That it is compatible for use with other chemicals normally used in the treatmentof swimming pool water;(d)That it does not impart toxic properties to the water beyond that of acceptablechlorinating, when used accorder to directions.

(ii)If the active agent of the disinfectant is chlorine, the unstabilised free availablechlorine, as measured by a standard method shall be at least of the followingconcentration, depending on the PH of the swimming pool water.

PH minimum free available residual chlorine mg/liter( not stabilized with cyanuric acid)

7.50.40

7.60.50

7.70.60

7.8 0.70

7.90.80

8.01.00

89AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iii)If cyanotic acid is used to stabilize the free available residual chlorine, or if one ofthe chlorinated is cyanate compounds is used as the disinfecting chronical, theconcentration of cyanuric acid in the water should be at least 30 mg/liter but shallnot exceed 100 mg/liter and the free available residual chlorine, as measured by astandard method, shall at least of the following concentration, depending on the PHof the swimming pool water

PhMinimum free e available re sidual chlorine mg/liter (cyanuric acid is at least equal to 30 mg/ Liter but not Sreater than 100 mg/ / liter)

7.51.00

7.6 1.25

7.7 1.50

7.8 1.75

7.9 2.00

8.0 2.50

(iv)if the disinfections of the swimming pool water is accomplished by a chemical orprocess other than one of the Chlorine compounds, the disinfecting action shall beat least the equivalent of that provided by 0.4 mg/liter of unestablished free availablechlorine at a PH of 7.5.

(v)Samples collected for microbiological examination shall be taken while the pool isin use and shall be collected, the residual disinfectant deactivated. and be examinedby a standard method for the microbiological examination of.

(vi)The swimming pool water shall not contain-

(a)More than 200 colonies per mill. As determined by the standard agar platecount.

(b) Coliform organizes and E. Cori type I shall be absent in 100 ml.

(vii)The water in all swimming pools when in use shall have the following chemical andphysical characteristics :

(a)shall be alkaline as indicated by a pH of not less than 7.5 mg/liter and morethan 8.0.

(b) Shall have a total alkalinity of at least 50 mg/liter but not greater than 150mg/liter as measured by the methyl orange test.

(c)Shall have sufficient clarity so that a black and white disc 15 centimeters(6 inches) in diameter is visible clearly at the deepest point of the swimmingpool when viewed from the side of the swimming pool.

(8)(i)Proper operating records shall be kept for every swimming pool when in use, andshall be available for inspection by an officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha generallyor specially authorized thereto by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(ii)Operating records shall include daily figures at least the following item

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201690A

(a)Time of opening for use and number of hours in use

(b)total bather load

(c)Peak bather load.

(d)volume of makeup water,

(e)operating periods of circulating pumps and filters with corresponding readingsof the rate of flow meter

(f)amounts of chemicals used

(g)disinfectant residual readings

(h)PH readings.

(i)Readings of other chemical tests.

(j)Clarity of the swimming pool at the deepest point.

(k) Maintenance servicing of equipment.

(9) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo 10 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed twice a month or more than if necessary,and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put or removed.

(10) (i)If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclables, actions shallbe taken to segregate them as follows(a)Bio-degradable wastes;(b)Glass;(c)Paper or paper related materials;(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;(f)Residues of Raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;(g)Hazardous waste.It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is putin separate bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii)Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(11) (i)No person shall establish , manage , operate, run a swimming pool without obtainan annual licence from the Chairman or Authorized Officer complying withcondition and standards provided for issues of such licence

(ii)However specified Paragraph 1, a concession period of three months, after effectingdate of these By-Laws shall be given to obtain a licence to maintain any swimmingpool. After completion of that period no person shall maintain a swimming poolwithout obtaining a licence

(12) No customer who is coming swim shall use the swimming pool any way without usingswimming dresses and pre bathe

(13) In the event of the premises where a swimming pool is established under a license issuedunder these By-Laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set outin these By-Law No. 4 or contravenes the provisions of any provision of the By-laws set out in this partthe Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplishnecessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

Tasks not to becarried out(11-12)

Functions of thePradeshiya Sabha(13-15)

91AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(14) Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No. 13 shall act in the mannerprescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasonshave been forwarded in writing the Chairman or Authorized Officer shall have the power to extend thedate specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than fourteendays.

(15) When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No. 14 fails to act inaccordance with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the dateextended it shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer to cancel the licensee issued to thatpremises.

(16)(i)Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretaryhas the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amountstated to run swimming pool.

(ii)The fees shall be exempted for the swimming pool run by the Government of SriLanka or Provincial Council.

(17) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(18) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelledearlier.

(19) It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under the provisions,to the Chairman or an Authorized Officer for inspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop suchinspection.

(20) Samples of water should be collected by periodically from every swimming pool when isused and examined for the microbiological quality of water. When such samples are collected the PHand residual disinfectant concentration shall also be tested at same time.

(21) When the Medical Officer of Health has decided that any type of epidemic or infectionhas gripped the area where the swimming pool is located or in its neighborhood, the Chairman shall havethe power to order the closure of the swimming pool.

(22) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(23) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawshall be an offence.

(24) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law whichhas the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(25) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the provisionsof the Local Authorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers ( 19 – 21)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretationand definition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201692A

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of these By-Lawsof the Ice factory and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business at the specified place.

“Swimming pool” means any pool of water constructed for swimming as an exercise or as apastime or for practice by any outsider for fees or free of charge.

SCHEDULE 01

PRADESHIYA SABHA

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….... for Conducting Swimming Pool

1.Name of the Swimming Pool:-……………………………………………………………………

2.Place of the Swimming Pool:-(i)Ward No: …………………………..(ii)Assessment No:……………………………(iii) Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………(iv)GN Division No & Name:………………………………………………………….

3.(i)Full Name of the Applicant ……………(ii)Permanent Address of the Applicant:-………………………………………………………

(iii)GN Division No & Name of the Applicant:-…………………………………………………(iv)NIC No of the Applicant:…………………………………………………(v)Telephone No of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..(vi)e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

4.(i) Date of Beginning:-………………………………………………………………….. (ii)(a) Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Swimming Pool:-…………………………(b) Telephones Number of the Owner /Manager / Agent of Swimming Pool:- ……………

5.If the land/ building is obtained on lease/rent.(a)Name of the Owner:………………………………………………………(b)Address:-………………………………………………………………………….

6.Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No:…………………

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No:…………………………………..

Date:…………………………………………

7.Whether Swimming Pool is separately constructed for adults and children:-Yes/No:……………If so, it is separately constructed for adults and children

93AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(i)Area of the Swimming Pool for adults- in square metre: …………………… … … ………..……..……..……..……..……..(ii)Area of the Swimming Pool for children - in square metre: ………………………………………..8.Dressing Rooms:(i)Number of Dressing Rooms for male:……………………………………………(ii)Number of Dressing Rooms for female:…………………………………………

9.The number of employees (including Manager) to run the Swimming Pool ………………………………………………………

10. Toilets :1.The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …2.The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

11. Water:(i)Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide water for SwimmingPool:………………………………………………………….

(ii)Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide drinking water tocustomers:……………………………………………

12. Method/ methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

13. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Swimming Pool /Business under theBy Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant

For office useFor report as follows………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative OfficerFor the report of revenue department,1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2.Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3.Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………DateRevenue Inspector

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201694A

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Accountant’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license: ………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..Sectional Head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya SabhaAuthorized Officer

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Signed

…………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

95AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

CHAPTER 5

Part 1 -Standard By-Laws relating to conduct the Ice Factory to regularize, monitorformulate and control Ice factory within the limit of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws relating to formulate, regularize, controland monitor Ice factory within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of maintaining public health and environmentwithout any harmful to the public residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of thePradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126(ix)(k) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabhas ActNo. 15 of 1987

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee

(5) The licence shall be issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer to the ice factory whenthe applicant has completed the conditions in this By-Law

(i)The licensed premises shall be in good condition and well ventilated

(ii)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(iii)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metresfrom floor level.

(iv)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be atleast 1 meter.

(v)While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms fixed with machinery for iceproducts shall not be less than 3.0 meters the walls shall have been plastered withmortar and the insides applied with paints, in the event of there being built withbricks, cement blocks or approved blocks. Otherwise when the walls have beenbuilt in wood together with aluminum or any other metal surfaces of the planksshall have been painted on their surface ;

(vi)Timber used for the roof shall be applied with oil colours or paints ;

(vii)The floor space shall be finished off with cement or tiled ;

(viii)A quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board onthe suitability of the water used for the manufacture of ice for human consumptionshall have been obtained. This quality certificate shall be obtained at least once inevery six months. In the event of the water being supplied by the National WaterSupply and Drainage Board is used for the manufacture of ice it shall be presumedthat this certificate has been obtained ;

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted(4-15)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201696A

(ix)In the event of water used in the manufacture of ice and activities connectedtherewith being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution ofwater stored shall be put in place ;

(x)Action shall have been taken to dispose of waste produced in the licensed premisesin the manner set out in By-Law No. 12

(xi)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated andreleased to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be coveredwithout mixing with air and it shall be constructed at least fifteen metres away fromthe constructed well.

(xii)Any lavatory, waste pit or open waste drain or suction pit constructed at the licensedpremises shall be located at a distance more than 15 metres from the room whereice is produced and the place where ice produced is issued to customers.

(xiii)General firefighting instruments and electrical fire fighting instruments have beenmade actively and sufficiently.

(6) Every space where paints need to be applied as set out in By-Laws No. 5 shall be appliedwith paints at least once a year.

(7) The place where ice produced and issued to the customers shall have been washed withwater at least one a day.

(8) Every licensee of an ice factory shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on the outsideof his premises, a board with his name and the words “Licensed Ice Factory” legible painted thereon inSinhala, Tamil and English.

(9) The persons who are carrying ice factory products for sales shall have a registration cardwith signature of the owner of ice factory.

(10) A copy of the trade licence issued to owner of ice factory shall be displayed at the consciousplace of licence premises.

(11) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they areon duty at the ice factory.

(12) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-Law13 and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or more than once a day ifnecessary, and these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when the garbage is being put orremoved:

(13) (i).Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled,action shall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories –(a)bio degradable waste ;(b)glass ;(c)paper or paper based materials ;(d)polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;(e)iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;

97AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(f)left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process orby products or other parts produced in the production line ;

(g)dangerous waste ;

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separatecontainers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(ii).Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer.

(14) The instruments used shall be cleaned every day and maintained in proper maintainingcondition.

(15) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

(16) Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman or Authorized Officer for the particularfunction has been obtained no person shall maintain an ice factory within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.

(17) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who hasrecently suffered from such disease, or any person who had been recently nursing anybody who issuffering from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report,shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employedin the place, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed.

(18) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any duty at a licensed premise.

(19) Non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used to store. Chemicals used in themanufacture of ice. Further these materials shall not be kept outside the stores unless they are kept inthe ice manufacturing room for the manufacture of ice.

(20) (i).Rooms reserved for the manufacture of ice shall not be used for any other purpose.(ii).A separate room or a site shall have been made available to store fuel. Further fuelshall not be taken through the rooms storing ice and issuing ice to customers.

(21) No licensee of an ice factory shall keep any animal or bird at licensed premises.

(22) No licensee shall introduce into the ice factory materials and articles other than thoseused in the manufacture of ice.

(23) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, topurchase a sample of any kind of ice products kept for sale or displayed for sale, for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(24) In the event of the premises where any ice factory is conducted under a licence issuedunder the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairmanor Authorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplishnecessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(25) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run Ice factory

Tasks not to becarried out( 16– 22)

Function of thePradeshiyaSabha( 23 – 24)

Charges and fees

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.201698A

(26) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(27) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelledearlier.

(28) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspectthe standards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(29) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or Authorized Officeror any authorized officer.

(30) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 24 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman or Authorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, theperiod of extension shall not be exceeded 14 days.

(31) The Chairman or Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No 30 in these By-Lawsfails to act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(32) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(33) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(34) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhaslimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of lawwhich has the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(35) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires –“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha”

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a licence under provision of these By-Lawsof the Ice factory and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued licence to take all measure under thisprovision.

“Ice Factory” means a factory where water is caused to solidify mechanically on a commercialbasis for consumption.

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (28-31)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-Laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

99AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

SCHEDULE -1PRADESHIYA SABHA

Application for Business tax / Licence 20…....for Conducting Ice Factory

1. Name of the Ice factory:-………………………………………………………………………

2. Place of the Ice factory:-(i)Ward No: …………………………..(ii)Assessment No:……………………………(iii)Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………(iv)GN Division No. & Name:………………………………………………………….

3. Full Name of the Applicant ……………(i)Permanent Address of the Applicant:-……………………………………………………(ii)GN Division No. & Name of the Applicant:-…………………………………………………..(iii)NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………(iv)Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..(v)e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

4.(i)Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..(ii)(a)Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Ice factory:………………………………(b) Telephones Number of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Ice factory:-…………………

5. If the land/building is obtained on lease/rent.(a)Name of the Owner:-………………………………………………………(b)Address:-………………………………………………………………………….

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No :…………………

If last year licence was obtained,Licence No.:…………………………………..Date:…………………………………………

7. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the Ice factory:…………………………………

8. Toilets : (i)The number of toilets for male employees: … … … …(ii)The number of toilets for female employees: … … … …

9. Method/methods and number of method/methods to get water

10. Method/methods for removing the wastewater:… … … … … … … … … … … …

11. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … …

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Ice factory /Businessunder the By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016100A

For office useFor report as follows

………………………………

Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer

For the report of revenue department,

1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………2.Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3.Remarks:……………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

For the report of the Medical Officer of Health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

101AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license……………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..Sectional head(Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer

………………………. ………………………………… Date Secretary

Signed

……………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016102A

Part II -Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise and controlof aerated water manufactories within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,supervise and control the aerated water manufactory within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for purpose protection of environment and public health forthe people residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas ActNo. 15 of 1987.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the subsection 126 (ix)(m) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with Section 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any manufacturer of soft drinks by the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer of Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the following specified conditions are duly fulfilled.(i)The aerated water manufactory shall be kept in clean and renewed condition

(ii)Walls of each room of the aerated water manufactory place shall not be less than3metres in height

(iii)These walls shall be built with bricks, block stones or limestone or any otherapproved stones and plastered and painted in both sides. However, except the kitchen,any other rooms which are made of timber or any kind of metal sheet, or bothtimber and metal sheets and painted, shall be considered to be in conformity tothis provisions.

(iv)Each room of the aerated water manufactory place shall be ceiled in height notless than 3metres from floor level.

(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installedto each room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floorarea. However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable

(vi)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves shall be atleast 1 meter

(vii)The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.

(viii)A sufficient drainage system to drain off waste water flowing from roomsmanufacturing soft drinks from washing empty bottles and from bathrooms of theemployees shall be put in place ;

(ix)While at least one room shall be reserved for storing types of syrup, otherchemicals, bottles used to can soft drinks or other kinds of packing materials,sufficient safety measures shall be put in place to maintain the room devoid of ratand other insects ;

(x)A quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board onthe suitability of the water used for the manufacture of soft drinks for humanconsumption shall have been obtained. Further this quality certificate shall beobtained at least once in every six months. In the event of the water being suppliedby the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is used for the manufacture ofsoft drinks it shall be presumed that this certificate has been obtained ;

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-16)

103AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi) In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft drinks and activities connectedtherewith being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution ofwater stored shall be put in place ;

(xii)Place used for the washing of empty bottles shall be located separate from therooms manufacturing soft drinks. Further only water issued with a quality certificatementioned in paragraph (x) above shall be used for such activities ;

(xiii)Separate containers or tanks shall be kept to accommodate waste material generateddue to the activities of the soft drinks manufacture, in the manner set out in this by-Law No. 12.

(xiv)While the employees of the factory shall be allocated lavatories in the proportionof at least one for each group of ten employees, separate lavatories shall be setaside for males and females. Moreover, such lavatories shall be located at a distancesaway from the rooms manufacturing soft drinks to avoid direct contact in order tomaintain hygiene.

(xv)Suction pit, fertilizer pit or ash pit shall be located more than 18 meters away froma room where soft drinks are manufactured or from a place where water used forthe manufacture of soft drinks is being stored in the event of such water beingstored in an underground water tank.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied asset out under By-Law No. 4 in these By-Laws shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The floor of every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks shall be washed at leastonce a day.

(8) Every room used for the manufacture of soft drinks and its environment, drains, furnitureand instruments shall be kept in proper maintaining condition.

(9) When cleaning bottles used to can soft drinks manufactured in a soft drink factory, a minimumof two tanks, viz,(i)one tank for the removal of labels previously fixed in the bottles and for the initialcleaning, and

(ii)The other tank for the final cleaning of those bottles, shall be used and the finalcleaning shall be effected utilizing flowing water.

(10) When any other kind or kinds of bottles other than those made of glass are utilized to cansoft drinks these bottles shall be used only once and it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that they areproduced from hygienically materials. In this matter a written certificate issued Medical Officer ofHealth is considered sufficient.

(11) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they areon duty at the soft drinks manufacturing factory.

(12) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo. 13 in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or morethan once a day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when thegarbage is being put or removed.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016104A

(13) (i)If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shallbe taken to segregate them as follows(a)Bio-degradable wastes;(b)Glass;(c)Paper or paper related materials;(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;(f)Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;(g)Hazardous waste.It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste isput in separate bins or containers which are organized to be covered.(ii)Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman or Authorized Officer

(14) Every licensee of an aerated water manufactory shall keep affixed in a conspicuous positionon the outside of his premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Aerated Water Manufactory”legibly painted thereon Sinhala, Tamil and English

(15) Every licensee of an aerated water manufactory shall cause a copy of the licence, to beframed and hung in a prominent place in the manufactory. He shall cause a list of the name and addressesof all the employees, (including vendors of aerated water,) to be kept in the manufactory and to beavailable for inspection at all reasonable times by the Chairman or Authorized Officer or any personauthorized by him.

(16) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

(17) No person shall run an aerated water manufactories within the authority of the PradeshiyaSabha area, unless he or she has a valid permit for the purpose of that, issued by the Chairman or AuthorizedOfficer.

(18) Unless the date of expiry of the syrups and other chemicals used in the manufacture ofsoft drinks falls at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture ofsoft drinks at any time.

(19) (i)Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person whohas recently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursinganybody who is suffering from such disease or any person not completed the periodmentioned on the medical report, shall not be engaged in any work of the authorizedplace, or allowed be an assistant to a person employed in the place, unless the incubationperiod of the disease has lapsed ;

(ii)No person or persons shall be engaged or allowed to be engaged at the authorizedplace, unless they are dressed in well washed clean clothes ;

(20) While non-opaque and easily cleaned utensils shall be used to store syrup and other typesof chemicals used in the manufacture of soft drinks, these materials shall not be kept outside unlessthey are kept in the soft drink manufacturing room for the manufacture of soft drinks.

(21) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Authorized Officer or an Authorized Officer, topurchase a sample of any kind of soft drinks manufactured at any manufactory, kept for sale or displayedfor sale, for the purpose of inspection at the licensed premise.

Tasks not to becarried out(17 – 20)

Functions of thePradeshiyaSabha(21 – 22)

105AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(22) In the event of the premises where a soft drinks manufactory is maintained under a licenceissued under the By-Laws any licensee contravenes any By-Law set out in this part the Chairman orAuthorized Officer shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplishnecessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(23) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary hasthe authority to charge for annual licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run aeratedwater manufactory.

(24) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(25) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity has been cancelledearlier.

(26) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(27) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or Authorized Officeror any authorized officer.

(28) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By- Law No. 22, shall act as stipulatedin the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, the Chairman orAuthorized Officer has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shallnot be exceeded 14 days.

(29) The Chairmanor Authorized Officer has the legal power to cancel the licence issued forthe place when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 28 fails to act asstipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(30) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(31) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(32) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhalimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law whichhas the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(33) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha.

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (26 – 29)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation ofBy-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016106A

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty.”

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By lawsof the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measures under theseprovisions.

“Aerated water “ means types of drinks manufactured using one type or all types of fruits,essence and syrups, and canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall also includesoda water.

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting aerated water manufactorywithin the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business centre:—————————.

2. Place of the Business centre:—————————.(i)Ward No:—————————.(ii)Assessment No:—————————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:—————————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:—————————.

3. Name of the Applicant:(i)Full Name:—————————.(ii)Permanent Address:—————————.(iii)GN Division No & Name:—————————.(iv)NIC No.:—————————.(v)Telephone No.:—————————.(vi)e-mail Address:—————————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning:—————————.(ii)Type of business:—————————.(iii)Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:—————————.(iv)Previous Business:—————————.

5. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:—————————.(ii)Address:—————————.

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:/No.:—————————.

If last year licence was obtained,

Licence No:—————————.Date:—————————.

107AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By-Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By-Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant .

For office use

For report as follows………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

…………………… ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer

For the report of revenue department,

1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2.Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………… Under A/B/C

3.Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue InspectorFor the report of the medical officer of health,Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health InspectorMedical Officer of Health’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016108A

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..Sectional head(Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date SecretarySigned

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

109AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Chapter 6Part I - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, supervise, administrate andcontrol of Public Markets within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-laws in this part may be cited as standard By-laws relating to the conduct, regularize,administrate and supervise the public markets within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of providing market facilities and selling andpurchasing of goods facilities for the residing within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by the sub section 126(xii) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 119-121and 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(4)(i)It shall be the duty of the lessee of any shopping stall in the public market or anyperson who has obtained a ticket to use any trading platform to categorize all thewaste generated at the shopping stall or nearby or on the trading platform or nearbyunder the categories of, -

(a)biodegradable waste;(b)glass;(c)paper or paper related matter;(d)polythene or plastics or materials related to polythene or plastics andregiform;(e)iron and other kinds of metal or pieces of iron and other metals;(f)dangerous waste; and to dump them into separate containers or receptaclesor tanks constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha to dump each kind of garbage.

(ii)It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take action to keep in suitable places of thepublic market small scale containers which facilitate disposal of garbage categorizedunder paragraph (i), for dumping garbage disposed of by the visitors to the publicmarket. Meanwhile action shall be taken to dump the contents of these containersat sufficient time intervals into containers or receptacles or tanks relevant to garbagestated in paragraph (i).

(iii)Nobody shall dump garbage of any kind other than those categorized to be dumpedinto a particular container, receptacle or tank placed in the public market to collectgarbage;

(iv)Except when garbage is dumped or taken out of the container or receptacle or tankconstructed for the dumping of biodegradable garbage under the provisions ofparagraph (i) of By-laws, under this section, the lid of that container or receptacleor tank shall be tightly closed always.

(5) It shall be the duty of the person engaged in sales activities at every trading stall and tradingplatform selling or exhibiting for sale vegetables, fruits, meat, fish or other kinds of food or beveragesto suitably wash or scratch and clean or cause anyone else to wash or scratch and clean at the end of theday’s activities every trading stall, table, bench, plank displaying goods and cupboard.

(6) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Chairman to make arrangements to clean by washingusing disinfectants every lavatory and urinal within the premises of the public market at least thrice aday and to clean by washing every drain constructed to allow free flow of water at least twice a day.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-32)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016110A

(7) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Chairman to make arrangements to remove at leastonce a day or on more occasions if necessary, the garbage accumulated in every container, receptacle ortank constructed in the manner specified in the paragraph (xxiv) of By-laws No. 61.and paragraph (i) ofBy-Law No. 4. Moreover, action shall be taken to transport such garbage out of the premises in a vehiclehaving fully covered the part containing such garbage.

(8) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Chairman to make arrangements to remove at leastonce a day the soil or sand or other matter accumulated at the place allocated for washing vegetables orfruits and to prevent obstacles to the free flow of water at that place.

(9) It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Chairman to make arrangements to examine at leastonce a day whether the functioning of the firefighting equipment fixed at the public market is in orderand to fix new equipment in place of those rendered nonfunctional.

(10) (i)It shall be the duty of the Chairman or Chairman to make arrangements to applypaints at least once a year on all the walls of the trading stalls except the innerwalls, the parts plastered with cement in every trading platform with parapet wallconstructions made with galvanized iron and other parts of the ceilings except theinner ceiling of the trading stalls in the public market;

(ii)It shall be the duty of the lessee of the trading stalls to apply paints at least once ayear on the inner walls of the trading stalls, the constructions made with galvanizediron and the inner ceiling of the trading stalls in the public market.

(11) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine from time to time the dates and time the publicmarket maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be kept open. It shall be the duty of the Chairman tomake arrangements to publish a notification in all the three languages as to what the dates and times thepublic market is opened and to prominently display such a notification at the entrance to the publicmarket, as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha. It is not determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the marketshall be opened from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m.

(12) (i).Every person who needs to use or utilize any trading platform built outside the shoppingstalls of the public market shall obtain a valid ticket issued under the authority orupon it under the provisions of the By-laws in this part;

(ii)The ticket issued under the provision in paragraph(i) shall be substantially preparedaccording to the specimen given in the First Schedule.

(13) (i)It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform the task of selecting a tenantto use or utilize any shopping stall in the building of the public market, being not ameat stall and to lease it out to the tenant through public tender;

(ii)When calling for tenders to rent out any shopping stall under paragraph (i) thedecision on the monthly rental payable for the said shopping stall shall be made inaccordance with the valuation of the Chief Valuation Officer.

(iii) (a)The occasion that arises when the tenant has on his own free will got theagreement repealed; or(b)The occasion that arises when the tenancy agreement has been repealed orbeing repealed due to violation of the provisions of the By-Laws in this part orviolation of the conditions of the tenancy agreement; or(c)The occasion when the tenant has died leaving no spouse or child, shall beconsidered as the occasions when tenders shall be called to select a tenant underparagraph (i).

111AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(iv)Meanwhile, unless any tenant has rejected validation of the said tenancy agreementfor any subsequent year or willfully avoid such opportunity for validation as per theconditions specified in By-Law No. 55, it shall not be considered that the tenancyagreement signed by the Pradeshiya Sabha and the lessee has been invalidated.

(14) The tenant selected to use or utilize any shopping stall, through public tender under theprovisions of By- laws No.13 shall enter into an agreement with the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(15) Notwithstanding anything stated in By-law No. 13 it shall be lawful to consider the lesseementioned in the tenancy agreement signed lately with the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of each shoppingstall in any public market owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha on the date the By-laws in this part come intoforce, as the tenant selected to use or utilize the said shopping stall under By-law 13 effective from thedate of such enforcement. Moreover, any tenant in respect of whom these By-laws is relevant further,shall enter into a new tenancy agreement within a period of three months from the date of this By-Laware effective as per By-Law No. 16 .

(16)(i)While any agreement signed with the Pradeshiya Sabha under the provisions of By-laws No. 14 and 15 shall be valid only for a period of one year, the period of validityof the tenancy of the said shopping stall can be extended for a further period of oneyear on arriving at a new agreement with the Pradeshiya Sabha for the subsequentyear, before one month of the expiry of the said period of one year. The tenant shallhave the right to use or utilize the said shopping stall after getting the period oflease of the said shopping stall validated annually for any subsequent year in thesame manner;

(ii)However, it shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to decide in accordance withthe valuation of the Chief Valuation Officer, the monthly rental that shall be paidduring the said subsequent year for the use and utilization of the said shopping stallby any tenant having validated the period of lease under paragraph (i).

(17) Different places shall be allocated for sales of vegetable, fruits or any other different kindof article.

(18) Obtaining annual trade licence for the year, is the duty of stall holders in the publicmarket, private market.

(19) All conditions are applicable to the platform sale of fish when they are accommodatedwithin the market premises.

(20) (i).Chicken & meat sellers shall take action to dispose the garbage generates at theirstalls as specified in by Law No. 5.

(ii).It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to reserve a separate place for sale ofpoultry within the market.

(21) (i).No person other than the person holding a licence, or his agent or servant whosename has been duly registered as such in the Pradeshiya Sabha Office and to whoma card of registration has been issued by the Chairman shall sell, use, or occupy andpart thereof in a market or sell goods therein. Also, before obtaining the licence,the licensee and his employees shall get into a medical check-up in each year andthat medical report shall be submitted to the Chairman.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016112A

(ii)Every stall holder who is desirous of employing any person as his agent or servantat his stall shall make application in that behalf to the Chairman. Every suchapplication shall be accompanied by two copies of National Identity Card.

(iii)The Chairman shall, upon receipt of that application, issue such person a dulynumbered card of registration to which shall be affixed one copy of the NationalIdentity Card forwarded with the application. The other copy of National IdentityCard shall be kept with the Medical Officer of Health.

(iv)Every person to whom a card of registration has been issued under these By-Lawsshall, on demand by any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha, produce such card for thepurpose of inspection.

(v)A card of registration issued under these By-Laws may be cancelled at any time bythe Chairman, if he considers it necessary so to do.

(vi)Where in any change of employment, the licensee shall inform that to the Chairmanin writing.

(22) Every person having a licence to hold or occupy a stall in any market or holding a speciallylicence to sell meat, fish or other articles in any place of business other than a public Market, and forwhich such special licence may be lawfully issued under the provision of this part , shall be bound tokeep such stall or place of business open to the public daily between the hours of 5.00 a.m. and 9.00p.m.,any person who shall close such stall or place of business or shall willfully neglect or refuse toserve the public during two consecutive days without written approval of the Chairman, shall be guiltyof an offence, and it shall be lawful for the Chairman to suspend or revoke the licence of any personconvicted as aforesaid, and to refuse thereafter to grant any such licence to any such person Also, a stallor the business place shall be taken into the possession of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(23) Any officer authorized by the Chairman shall be employed to issue tickets to and to levymoney on those tickets, any person who needs to use or utilize trading platforms except trading stalls inthe public market. Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the Authorized Officer to take action to creditmoney collected daily on issuing such tickets to the common fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha before 3.00p.m. on each day of collection. If any money collected on issuing tickets at the public market afteraction has been taken by the Authorized Officer to credit the money collected in the common fund ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha on a certain day is still left, such money shall be credited to the common fund ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha on the following day.

(24) In the event of the inability to employ any officer authorized by the Chairman to issuetickets to and collect money from any person wishes to use or utilize the trading platforms in the publicmarket, except trading stalls, in the manner set out in By-Laws No. 23, the Pradeshiya Sabha shall havethe power to allocate the task to a person selected on calling public tenders, hereinafter referred to asthe “Lessee”.

(25) While assignment of duties for any Lessee selected under By-Laws 24 shall be valid onlyfor one year, a lessee shall be selected again for the following year through tenders.

(26) (i).When a lessee has been selected under the provisions of By-laws No. 25, he shalltake action to –

(a)deposit in the Pradeshiya Sabha a refundable security deposit in a value decidedupon by the Pradeshiya Sabha at the time of calling tenders for such selection;

(b)arrive at an agreement with the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of issuing suchtickets and collecting money;

113AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(c)deposit in the Pradeshiya Sabha a deposit equal to one third or more of theannual fees agreed upon by the agreement signed under the provision of sub-paragraph (ii).

(ii)Unless the provisions set out in paragraph (i) have been fulfilled in the mannerstated therein, nobody shall be allowed to use or utilize trading platforms in anypublic market being maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, to issue tickets to thepeople willing to engage in trading and to collect money for such tickets.

(27) It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to include the following as accepted conditionsin the agreement to be signed by the Pradeshiya Sabha with any lessee according to sub-paragraph (b) inparagraph (i) of By-law No. 26 :–

(i)the manner in which tickets shall be issued in order to use or utilize trading platforms;

(ii)the manner in which money shall be collected for the said tickets and the maximumamount of money that shall be charged;

(iii)the total amount of money to be paid by the Lessee to the Pradeshiya Sabha for theyear of agreement;

(iv)the fact that the said annual money shall be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha in twelveequal instalments and the value of one such instalment ;

(v)the date on which the money that shall be paid for each month is to be paid to thePradeshiya Sabha ;

(vi)the fact that the lessee is required to pay to the Pradeshiya Sabha a late fee amountingto ten percent of the monthly charges in the event of failure to pay that money onthe due date;

(vii)the termination of the power vested in the lessee to issue tickets to those willingto use or utilize trading platforms in the public market and charge money on behalfof these tickets from the date of the receipt of a notification from the Chairman inwriting on the fact that the agreement is subject to cancellation under the provisionsof the By-law No. 28 and that the agreement has been declared null and void in theevent of the failure to pay the money due to be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha for aperiod of more than three months.

(28)(i)It shall be the duty of the Chairman to hand over a notification in writing to thelessee demanding the payment of the arrears and late fees in the event of the failureof the Lessee to pay to the Pradeshiya Sabha the monthly dues and when the arrearsare for a period of more than three months.

(ii)In the event of the failure of any Lessee to pay to the Pradeshiya Sabha the arrearsof payments and the late fees within seven days of the receipt of a notificationunder paragraph (i) the agreement signed by the Pradeshiya Sabha with the relevantLessee shall be considered to be rendered null and void with effect from the expiryof seven days from the receipt of that notification by him, and such cancellationshall be lawful. Moreover, it shall be the duty of the Chairman to inform in writingto the relevant Lessee about the cancellation of the said agreement on the day it isconsidered cancelled.

(iii)The Lessee who was a party to any agreement cancelled under the provisions of theprovisions in paragraph (ii) shall not, on any occasion after the cancellation of thatagreement issue tickets to anybody or collect money for such tickets from anybodyto use or utilize the trading platforms of the said public market.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016114A

(iv)It shall be the duty of the Chairman to employ any Authorized Officer of thePradeshiya Sabha to issue tickets and collect money on behalf of those tickets touse or utilize the trading platforms of the public market with effect from the dayafter the day of the cancellation of any agreement under provisions in paragraph(ii). Moreover, in the event of the Chairman being of opinion that it is not possibleto get the task performed any further by an Authorized Officer, he shall forward hisopinion to the Pradeshiya Sabha through the Chairman in order to take actionaccording to the provisions in By-law No.24. When the opinion of the Chairmanhas been forwarded to the Pradeshiya Sabha in the above manner the PradeshiyaSabha shall take a decision to take action in accordance with By-laws No. 24.

(v)On any occasion when the Pradeshiya Sabha has come to a decision to act inaccordance with By-law No. 24 as set out in paragraph (iv), the Lessee who was aparty to the cancelled agreement shall have no right to submit a tender applicationin accordance with the said tender notice.

(29) Everybody engaged in trading activities in shopping stalls and trading platforms in anyprivate market shall obey the provisions in these By-Law. Furthermore it shall be the duty of the licenseeof that market to ensure that the said persons obey these provisions.

(30) It shall be the duty of the licensee of every private market to obey the provisions in theseBy-law No. 32.

(31) The following terms contained in the By-Laws shall convey the meaning given against itfor the purposes of this By-laws, in respect of any private market :-

(i)“public market” means the said private market;

(ii)“Tenant” means the person engaged in business at any shopping stall in the saidprivate market or his agent or the person in charge of the said shopping stall for thetime being ;

(iii)“Chairman” or ‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha” means the licensee of the said private market orhis substitute or the agent or person in charge of the functions and duties of the saidprivate market for the time being.

(32) It shall be the duty of the licensee to display prominently at the entrance of the said privatemarket a notice or notices in all the three languages about the dates and time on which any privatemarket a notice or notices in all the three languages about the days and time on which any private marketis kept open.

(33) It shall not be lawful for any person to do any of following acts.

(i)Being a person holding a licence or ticket for a stall or space in public market orbeing servant or agent of any such person to subject any person resorting to suchmarket to unnecessary and vexatious annoyance or delay .

(ii)To carry on any cooking in a public market.

(iii)To be have in a disorder manner, or beg or commit any nuisance in any public marketor the premises appertaining thereto.

(iv)To remain in a public market after the place has been closed for business at 9 p.m.without being able to give a satisfactory reason.

Tasks not to becarried out(33 – 60)

115AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(v)To damage or in any way deface any portion of the buildings, stalls, lamps or anyproperty of the Pradeshiya Sabha in or about a public market, or defile or pollute inany way, or waste or bathe himself in or wash any clothes or animal in the waterprovided for use in such public market.

(vi)Fixing any advertising boards of any form other than the name board of the shoppingstall, display banners or do any other type of advertising unless formally allowed bythe Chairman;

(vii)Excreting at any place other than the lavatory or urinal.

(viii)No person shall obtain brokerage from the farmer for sales of agricultural products.

(ix)Selling dried goods at the platform sale except the agricultural products.

(34) To make any noise, to fight or quarrel, or use insulting, abusive, or obscene languagewithin any public market or the premises appertaining thereto. Any person contravening these By-Lawsshall be turned out by the Market-keeper or his assistant other person authorized thereto.

(35) No person shall expose, or hawk about for sale any fish, chicken, beef, mutton, or othermeat or offal in any place or street within the Pradeshiya Sabha (except at a public market provided bythe Pradeshiya Sabha) without a special licence from the Pradeshiya Sabha, or contrary to the tenant ofsuch licence. Further no person shall sell within a radius of 0.5 kilometer from a public market withoutspecial licence as decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha for chicken, meat and fish. Further no person shallexpose or hawk about for sales vegetables (including coconut) and any other kind of food at any placewithin a radius of 0.5 kilometer from the public market except special licence authorized by a resolutionof Pradeshiya Sabha. While the radius of market is not decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha the radiusmeans 0.5 kilometer from the market. The Pradeshiya Sabha may decide radius less than 0.5 kilometerand shall declare.

(36) No person shall, within the market area sell edible fish, other than shell fish, except byweight.

(37) No person shall keep or sell in a public market any type of things or other than what isspecified in the licence or ticket. No person shall sell or expose for sale any meat or offal either in apublic market or in a place specially licensed under By-Law No. 22 without a pass issued to him underBy-Law No. 35 of this part. And it shall be lawful for any authorized Officer or a Police Officer todemand the produce of such passes from any person selling or exposing meat for sale, and on failure ofproduce to seize any meat in such market without such pass, or contrary to the terms thereof, and toremove the same to the Pradeshiya Sabha Office or to a Police Station to be disposed of as may bedirected by the Judge or decided by the Chairman.

(38) No person shall sell any chicken without proper licence at any stall in the public market.

(39) No person shall keep or use or occupy or hold any stall, shop, or other place in a publicmarket unless he is a person or the agent of a person having the permission of the Chairman of anyPradeshiya Sabha Officer authorized to exercise the powers of Chairman under the Pradeshiya SabhaAct to sell or expose for sale any article at such stall, shop or place.

(40) Space properly marked and numbered shall be set apart in every public market for the saleof vegetables, fruits and other articles by persons paying such daily fee as the Chairman may from timeto time determine. No person shall occupy any such space without having obtained a ticket, or sell orexpose for sale or sale any vegetables fruits or other articles not specified in his ticket. A ticket signedby any person authorized thereto in writing by the Chairman shall be issued to each person who payssuch fee.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016116A

(41) No person shall transfer to any other person a licence or ticket issued to him for any stallor space in a public market , or shall sublet any such stall or space or any part thereof and no personshall use, or hold, or occupy any stall use or space or any part thereof under any alleged transfer withoutthe permission of the Chairman.

(42) No person holding a ticket for any space in any public market shall under any pretextwhatsoever allow or permit any other person to use or occupy such space or any part thereof, or to sellor expose for sale any goods, articles, or things of any description whatsoever.

(43) No person other than a ticket-holder shall use or occupy any space or any part thereof ina public market or sell or expose goods therein.

(44) Being a person affected with any loathsome or contagious or infectious disease, to occupyany stall, seat, space in any public or private market, or expose or carry about for sale in such market, orin any street within the Pradeshiya Sabha any article whatsoever, no person shall employ in any capacityin any public or private market any person affected with any such disease. No person so affected shallenter any market .Any such person may be expelled from the market premises.

(45) No person holding a licence for any stall in the public market shall under any pretextwhatsoever suffer or permit any other person to use or occupy such stall or any part thereof, or to sell orexpose for sale any goods, articles, or thing of any description whatsoever without the authority of theChairman.

(46) No person holding a licence or ticket for any stall or space in a public market shall use, oroccupy, or permit or allow any person acting or on his behalf to use or occupy, and no agent or servantof person holding such licence or ticket shall use or occupy any stall or space or any ground beyond thelimits of the stalls or space rented by him.

(47) No person shall throw rubbish, refuse bones, skins of animals or such like item or uponany public market or its premises into or any drain on or near the market promises, except into areceptacle provided for such purpose.

(48) Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, no carcass of any animal (of any portionthereof) not slaughtered at a Local Authority slaughter house shall be brought into a public or privatemarket, or to any place specially licensed as provided in By-Law No. 22 of this part, or sold or exposedfor sale in any public market or private market or in such specially licensed place. The provisions ofthese By-Laws shall not apply to meat, game or fish imported into the Island, Meat, game or fish soimported shall be sold in any place specially licensed therefor.

(49) No person shall bring a dog into a market or allow any dog belonging to him or in hischarge to be on any part of any market.

(50) (i).In case of any materials or goods brought in to the public market for sale or anyinstrument or anything else used in trading activities, they shall not be kept or allowedto be kept on any corridor or platform bank except when they are brought into themarket or taken out of it.

(ii). While no type of trading activities shall be pursued in a corridor or on a platformbank inside the public market, any action causing disturbances to persons walkingalong the pavements, reserved places, corridors or over the platform banks or thesteps shall not be done.

117AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(51) Unless the Pradeshiya Sabha has come to a decision and given permission for the particularactivity nobody shall undertake any type of construction or fixture or alteration or partitioning thatwould alter or damage the overall plan of any shopping stall in the public market.

(52) No body shall erect a trading platform or make a partitioning in any place within the publicmarket.

(53) Unless somebody is a holder of a valid ticket issued under the provisions of the By-LawNo. 12 or his or her employee or a agent of him or her and comply with the orders and conditions of theBy-laws in this part, nobody shall use or utilize a trading platform built outside the shopping stalls of thepublic market. Further no person shall keep any of that place after time fixed for closing of market.

(54) Unless somebody is a person who has entered into a tenancy agreement with the PradeshiyaSabha under the provisions of the By-Laws in this part or his employee or sub-agent and comply with theorders and conditions of the By-Laws in this part and the said tenancy agreement, nobody shall use orutilize any shopping stall in the public market.

(55) Unless action has been taken to get validated the period of tenancy for the subsequent yearunder By-Laws No. 16 before the expiry of one month from the date of the expiry of the period oftenancy of any shopping stall, no tenant shall have the right to use or utilize the said shopping stall afterthe expiry of the last day of the said month.

(56) Nobody shall take action to sublet any shopping stall in the public market. Any loss orharm or damage caused to any sub-tenant as a result of the cancellation of the agreement entered intobetween the Pradeshiya Sabha and the tenant of the said shopping stall due to subletting of any shoppingstall by anybody and as a result of vesting back the said shopping stall to the Pradeshiya Sabha shall bevested with the said sub-tenant. Meanwhile the Pradeshiya Sabha or the Chairman or Chairman or theAuthorized Officer shall not be subjected to responsibility in this regard.

(57) Nobody shall obtain or allow anybody else to obtain an electricity connection or waterconnection to a shopping stall from any electrical circuit or common water tap put in place for publicuse in the premises of the public market.

(58) (i)Any licensee shall not desist or prevent such purchase referred in By-Law No. 62.

(ii)It shall be duty to co-operate the licensee who have received licence under theprovisions for private market and any person in the public market, to the Chairmanor any Authorized Officer for inspection, and shall not make obstacle to stop suchinspection.

(59) No person shall do as being a Market-keeper or lessee of a public market or any personemployed under him, to demand or receive a greater rent, toil, or fee than that authorized to be received,or to give any unnecessary or vexatious annoyance to any person under presence of performing any dutyor exercising any authority imposed or conferred upon him.

(60) No licence shall be issued for any private market by the Chairman unless requiredconditions specified in this By-Law for a public market has been duly fulfilled.

(61) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall obey the following directives in these By-laws in regard to anypublic market constructed and maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, viz:

(i)While all permanent buildings of the public market shall be built with bricks, cementblocks or any other approved stones the height of the walls shall be at least threemetres from the ground level.

Function of theLocal Authority(61-64)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016118A

(ii)The roof shall be made of some permanent material.

(iii)While the roof of the inner shopping stalls shall be fitted with ceilings the ceilingsshall be at a height of at least 3 metres from the ground level.

(iv)While the front side of the inner shopping stalls shall contain a corridor at least 2.5meters wide, the place where each shopping stall meets the corridor shall contain acollapsible door or a door that could be removed as planks.

(v)Platform banks and drains carrying away rain water, at least one meter in width shallhave been constructed at the outer boundary of the walls and the outer boundary ofthe corridor of the building containing the shopping stalls.

(vi)Trading platforms shall have been constructed for temporary traders outside theshopping stalls of the building.

(vii)Every trading platform constructed inside the building shall consist of a floor boardmade of concrete sheet or stainless metal sheet placed on a bank made with bricksor cement blocks or any other approved stone. However,when it is not possible toconstruct trading platforms in this manner the floor board is made with cementblocks or any other approved stones,it shall be plastered with cement or tiled. Theflat spaces shall be allocated on the floor and each section shall be demarcated inwhite paint.

(viii)The area of each trading platform shall not be less than two square metres.

(ix)While a roof covering each trading platform and constructed at a height of at least2.25 metres above the floor level on posts made with bricks or cement blocks orany other approved stones or galvanized iron bars or reinforced aluminum bars shallbe made available the eaves shall be at a height of at least 2.1 metres above the floorlevel. Moreover, when these posts are constructed with bricks or cement blocks orany other approved stones they shall be plastered and applied with paints and if theyare constructed with galvanized iron bars they shall be painted.

(x) While every roof shall be constructed with solid materials sufficient pipes shallhave been fixed to drain away water accumulated in the gutters.

(xi)The platform bank at least one metre in width, shall have been constructed on theground around every trading platform.

(xii)While a quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Boardon the suitability of the water used in the premises for human consumption shallhave been obtained this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in everysix months. In the event of the water being supplied by the National Water Supplyand Drainage Board is used at the premises it shall be presumed that this certificatehas been obtained;

(xiii)In the event of water used in the manufacture of soft drinks and activities of thepremises being kept in storage sufficient safety measures to prevent pollution ofwater stored shall be put in place;

(xiv) While a sufficient number of separate lavatories and urinals shall have beenconstructed for the use of the males and females the floor of every lavatory and thewalls up to a minimum of two metres above the floor level shall have been tiled.

(xv)While sufficient electricity shall have been provided to all shopping stalls, tradingplatforms, lavatories and urinals and to all common areas including the corridorsevery electric circuit shall have been covered with a bad conductor covering.

119AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xvi)While every shopping stall shall have been fixed with an electricity meter each aseparate meter shall have been fixed to measure the electricity units spent for theelectrification of common areas.

(xvii)Common water taps to obtain water shall have been fixed within the premises.

(xviii)A separate area shall have been allocated to wash vegetables and fruits.

(xix)Water supplies shall have been provided to each shopping stall that requires waterdue to the nature of their business. While a separate water meter each shall havebeen fixed for each of these supply points a separate water meter each shall havebeen fixed to measure the consumption of water at common taps and at the placesallocated for the washing of vegetables and fruits.

(xx)While a sufficient system of drains shall have been provided to enable free flow ofwater accumulated from rain water directly falling on the floor and the roofs andwater disposed of, from the place allocated for the washing of vegetables and fruitsarrangements shall have been provided to allow free flow of such waste water.

(xxi)While a sufficient fire protection programme shall have been put in place, actionshall have been taken to fix different types of firefighting equipment necessary forthe control of fire generated from electric circuits, fire caused by fuels and firegenerated due to any other reason.

(xxii)A standard common scale shall have been kept at a separate and prominent placewith a view to weighing and ensuring the weight of the goods purchased by theconsumers.

(xxiii)It shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to separate the market into sections forsale of meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, groceries and other commodities, having takeninto consideration the location of the shopping stalls of the common market andalso to separate the trading platforms in the same manner.

(xxiv) While tanks, receptacles or containers that could accommodate waste generatedin the premises and categorized as:

(a)biodegradable waste ;

(b)glass ;

(c)paper or paper related materials ;

(d)polythene and plastics or materials related to polythene and plastics ;

(e)iron and other metals or pieces of iron and other metals ;

(f)dangerous waste ;

shall have been constructed in a separate area of the public market thereceptacle or tank constructed to collect bio-degradable garbage shall beprovided with a lid that could be tightly closed so that rats, animal, flies,insects or any type of bird could gain entry into it.

(xxv) Sufficient parking facilities shall be provided to the bicycles, motor bicycles andthe motor vehicles of consumers as well as those transporting goods.

(xxvi)It shall be duty of the Chairman to provide a separate and common place to sellretail and whole sale of agricultural products to farmers. Further , it shall be theduty of farmer to follow procedures specified in these By-Laws.

(xxvii)The layout of the public market shall be display at a conspicuous place in the publicmarket where the public can easy see. Further all section of the market such as stallsection, flat form sellers section fish market, meat stall section and agriculturalproducts sale section shall be shown in this Lay- out of the public market.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016120A

(62) While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or Chairman or an Authorized Officer to purchasea sample of any kind of food kept for sale or displayed for sale in the premises of any public market orany private market.

(63) IT shall be the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to ensure that the platform sellers and stallholders are selling the item as specified in the agreement accordance with the Lay-out of the publicmarket.

(64) Slope steps and hand holders shall be fitted with the building for the disable persons toproceed into the market with their wheel.

(65) (i) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to recover rent from the stall holder accordancewith the valuation made by Chief valuer and agreement made with tenancy.

(ii)It shall be lawful to the Secretary to recover fees from the person who are usingthe selling platform as specified in schedule ii accordance with Pradeshiya Sabhadecision and to recover fees less than 5% of the total sales from the person/ farmerswho are using common and opened place to sell their product. Further it shall belawful to the Chairman to assign the recovery of fees on annual lease to the lesseeand to recover the lease according to the agreement as specified in this paragraph.However details of all fees shall be published in the Government Gazette of Srilanka.

(iii)Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, the Secretaryhas the authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amountstated to conduct private market.

(iv)Twenty five percent out of whole sale tax recovered from the agricultural productsbrought the private market for sale at the rate decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha (asper paragraph (ii)) shall be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha, A separate agreement alsoshall be made with the private market holders. The receipts books approved by thePradeshiya Sabha only shall be used for their collections by the private marketholders. This By-Laws is applicable to private fish market also.

(66) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(67) Validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on 31stDecember of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(68) The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by the Chairman or an AuthorizedOfficer of the provisions of the By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when a public market or aprivate market is opened for business activities.

(69) It shall be lawful to Pradeshiya Sabha to issue or refuse a licence for the application withthe consideration of public benefit to conduct private market within the Pradeshiya Sabha area. In theevent of the premises where any private market is maintained under a licence issued under the By-lawsof this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in By-law No. 4 to beread with By-law No. 61 or contravenes the provisions of any By-laws of the by-laws set out in this partthe Chairman or Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him toaccomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specifieddate.

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers (68-71)

121AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(70) Any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-Law No.69 shall act in the mannerprescribed in the notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasonshave been forwarded in writing the Chairman or Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specifiedin the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than fourteen days.

(71) When any licence in receipt of a notice mentioned in By-law No. 70 fails to act inaccordance with the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the dateextended it shall be lawful for the Chairman or Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.

(72) If any dispute arises concerning any stall, space, bin, rent or fee, it shall be competent tothem as to him, Chairman to determine the same and make such order thereon as to him may seemproper.

(73) Any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman or authorizedofficer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by these officers.

(74) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-lawsis an offence.

(75) Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and if convictedafter a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabha limitsliable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. Furtherin case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has thejurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2)

(76) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires–

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Chairman by the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Act;

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha;

“ “Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty;

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these By-Lawsof the public Market and person who is responsible for management, is employed by theperson in-charge or Manager of the management of this place;

“Spouse” means the legal wife or husband of any lessee;

“Public Market” means any place where shopping stalls constructed for the purpose of engagingin sales or where facilities are put in place for the sale of goods and commodities includingvegetables or fruits produced in their gardens or home gardens and a place erected and beingmaintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, and it shall also include a place where any product isbought or sold wholesale or retail;

“Private Market” means any place where activities similar to those carried out in a public marketare carried out by anybody or a body of persons or any cooperated body not being thePradeshiya Sabha;

“Chief Valuation Officer” means the Chief Valuation Officer of the Department of Valuationand it shall also include any officer appointed by the said Department on behalf of theAdministrative District to which the Pradeshiya Sabha belongs;

Complaints andresolvingmechanism(72-73)

Violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016122A

“Tenant of a stall” means any person maintaining any shopping stall in any public market underan agreement with the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

“Trading platform” means any platform erected for the purpose of day to day sales within apublic market, separated from the shopping stalls in the said market, and it includes anyplace demarcated for sales activities by drawing lines on the floor of the said public market;

“Lessee” means any person obtained public market on annual lease, issuing and collecting feesfor use of trading platform;

“Extent of the space allocated for trading purposes in any public market “means the sectionfrom the back wall of the shopping stall up to the limit of the door stated in section 61 ofthis By-Laws, in case of shopping stalls and the surface area of the trading platform and thearea behind the trading platform allowed to be used by the trader engaged in sales, in case ofa trading platform;

“Licensed premise” means place for which isissued license to take all measures under thisprovision;

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business at the specified place.

Schedule I

—————— Pradeshiya Sabha

—————— Public Market

Ticket for the use or utilization of a trading platform

Name of the holder of the ticket: ——————

National Identity Card No. : ——————

Number of the trading platform or the demarcated area: ——————

Duration of allotment:

From … ……20… …… to … … … … … 20… … …

Number of days allotted: 01 day / 07 days / 01 month

Fees charged: Rs. ——————

Date of issue: ——————20——————

——————

Signature of the Tax Collector.

(Strike off inapplicable words.)

123AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Schedule II

By-law No. 29

Table of Fees charged for the use or utilization of a trading platform in a public market

Nature of theFees for a dayFees for 7 daysFees fora monthtrading platformRs.Rs.Rs.

Trading platform built abovethe floor level

Area separated by markingon the floor

PRADESHIYA SABHA

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….... for Conducting Private Market

1. Name of the Market:-……………………………

2. Place of the Market:-(i)Ward No: …………………………..(ii)Assessment No:……………………………(iii)Name of the Road/Street:……………………………………………………………(iv)GN Division No and Name:………………………………………………………….

3.(i)Full Name of the Applicant ……………(ii) Permanent Address of the Applicant:-………………………………………………………(iii) GN Division No. and Name of the Applicant:-………………………………………………..(iv)NIC No. of the Applicant:…………………………………………………(v)Telephone No. of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..(vi)e-mail Address of the Applicant:……………………………………………………..

4.(i)Date of Beginning:-…………………………………………………………………..(ii)(a)Name of the Owner /Manager / Agent of the Market:-…………………………………(b)Telephones Number of the Owner /Manager / Agent of Market:- …………………

5. If the land/ building is obtained on lease/rent.(i)Name of the Owner:………………………………………………………(ii)Address :………………………………………………………

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:/No:…………………..If last year licence was obtained,Licence No:…………………Date:…………………………

7. As per Stated in the By-Law,(i)Number of Trading Platforms:……………………………………………(ii)Number of Stalls:……………………………………………………………

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016124A

8. The number of employees (including Manager) to run the market:…………………………………

9. Toilets :

(i)The number of toilets for male customers: … … … …(ii)The number of toilets for female customers: … … … …

10. Water:

(i)Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide drinking water tocustomers:……………………………………………

(ii)Method/ methods and number of method/ methods to provide water to washvegetables:…………………………………………………

11. Method/ methods for removing the waste water:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..12. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste:… … … … … … … … … … … … … …..

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Private Market/Business under the ByLaw.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office useFor report as follows

………………………………Chairman / Secretary/ Authorized officer.

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer

For the report of revenue department,1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………2.Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3.Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

125AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of the Medical Officer of Health

Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector.

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health.

For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. ………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector.

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license ……………………

…………………………………………………………………………………

……………………. ……………………

Date Secretary.

Approved/Not Approved ………………………. ………………………………………… DatePradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..

Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman……………………………………………………………… Date Secretary.Signed

………………. …………………………………………DatePradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016126A

Part II - Standard By- Laws in relating to seizure, forbid, removal and destruction ofarticles unfit for food within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to seizure, forbid, removal anddestruction of articles unfit for food within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting public sanitation and health ofpublic residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No15 of 1987.

(3) The By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the subsections 126 (ix) (g) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.

(4) It shall be the duty and responsibility of a licensed dairy man to make application for obtainingprinted and numbered card from the Chairman or authorized officer annually to all vendors employedannually. Such card shall bear name, address and place of sale and a photograph of the vendor shall beaffixed herewith.

(5) No person shall sell ,hawk or expose for sale of milk unless he has a card indicated hisname and issued by the Chairman

(6) No person shall sell, hawk or expose milk for sales unless name of dairy man under whomhe is employed is still on the card at the time of sale, hawking or exposing of milk for sale

(7) No person shall sell or cause to sell or expose to sell milk or milk products not having theminimum of compositional requirements of milk as shown in Schedule 01.

(8) No person shall bring unfit food of any meat, fish, game, vegetable, fruit or other articles offood within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha for sale or exposing to sale.

(9) No person shall add, mix ,stain, color or powder or order or permit any other person to add,mix ,stain, color or powder any article with any ingredient or material so as to render the article injuriesto health with intent that to be sold in that state.

(10) No person shall sell any such article so added, mixed, coloured, strained or powdered.

(11) No person shall sell any tinned or salted meat, fish or other article of food unfit for thehuman consumption or lapsed.

(12) No person shall sell or expose for sale milk from which the cream has been removed,unless he previously informs the person to whom he sells or exposes it that the cream has been removed

(13) No person shall expose for sale any cooked food, pastry, sweet meats, and confectioneryor preserved or dried fruit intended for human consumption unless he has taken all reasonable precautionsto protect it from dust, files and bad adours.

(14) No person shall sell any kind of spoiled adulterated full cream milk unfit for humanconsumption

(15) No person shall refuse to issue receipt for purchasing of tinned or salted meat, fish orother articles of food by the Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or Authorized Officer ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted

Tasks not to becarried out(05 – 15)

127AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(16) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to issue printed numbered cards with serial numberannually to all employees of the diary man on his request. A copy of photograph of vendor affixed withcard shall be kept at the office of Pradeshiya Sabha. Further name and address of dairy man, time of sale,hawking and exposing of milk for sale shall be indicated in the card.

(17) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha

(18) The Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or an Authorized Officer may at anytime, demand and take for the purpose of analysis samples of any milk which is in possession of aregistered dairy man or any person who is found selling, hawking or exposing milk for sale and anyregistered dairy man or other person who refuses to permit samples to be taken shall be guilty of anoffence.

(19) If any person fails to producesuch a card for inspection on demand by any Authorizedofficer or Police Officer, he shall be guilty of an offence and such officer arrest him and shall conveyhim fourth with after arrest to the nearest Police station. Officer incharge of the police station shalldeal with him as if he has been arrested by Police Officer without a warrant under the provision ofcriminal procedure code. Such cards may be cancelled at any time by the Chairman, if it appears to himto be necessary, in the interest of the public health.

(20) (i).It shall be lawful for the Medical Officer of Health or an Authorized Officer toenter any place used for the manufacture or sale of aerated waters (cool drinks) atany time when such place is opened and to purchase a sample bottle of any kind ofaerated water which is there manufactured or kept for sale and proprietor or personincharge such business who shall refuse to permit such sample to be taken shall beguilty of an offence. Such sample shall be forthwith forwarded to the City orGovernment Analyst and the certificate issued by Government Analyst shall be asproof it to be unfit for the human consumption.

(ii).In taking samples of milk, the Medical Officer of Health, Veterinary Surgeon orAuthorized Officer shall take three samples and shall at once sealed them in thepresence of the registered dairy man or other person from whom there taken, andshall deliver one of such registered dairy man or other person, send the second tothe city or Government Analyst and third to the Pradeshiya Sabha Office. A certificatesigned by such city or Government Analyst, if state that the sample adulterated,shall be evidence that the milk from which sample was taken, was adulterated. Shouldany evidence to the contrary be offered, a certificate from the City or GovernmentAnalyst shall be conclusive on the question adulteration.

(iii).The Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeon or an Authorized Officer asthe case may be ,may enter any shop or other place where tinned or salted meat iskept for sale , at any time when such shop or place is opened and seize any tinned orsalted meat which he reasonably suspects to be unfit for human food , and he shallforthwith send such tinned or salted meat to the City or Government Analyst andthe certificate of such authorized analyst, if it states that tinned or salted meat isunfit for human food ,shall be evidence of that fact until the contrary is proved andproprietor or person incharge of the shop or places where such tinned or saltedmeat was seized , shall unless contrary is so proved as stated above, be guilty of anoffence

Function of thePradeshiya Sabha

Delegation ofpower

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (18 – 20)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016128A

(21) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(22) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(23) (i).Should any sample of milk taken under the provisions of the above said By-Laws,prove to be adulterated ,the person in whose possession it is found shall be guiltyof an offence. If such person be a vendor of , or a person in the employ of or actingon behalf of a dairy man, then both such person and dairy man shall be guilty of anoffence.

(ii).It shall be lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabha Officer upon the Seizure by himunwholesome or unfit for the human food of meat of cattle, poultry , fish , flesh,vegetable, fruits or other articles of food introduced into or exposed for sale withinthe limits, to convey the same to the Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeonor in their absence, to judge of court who has jurisdiction within the PradeshiyaSabha limits and if it appears to the Medical Officer of Health or Veterinary Surgeonor the Judge that meat , poultry ,fish ,game, vegetable, fruits or other articles offood are unfit for human food, he shall order the them to be destroyed or to bedisposed of as to prevent it being used for food.

(iii).Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction withinthe Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in thePradeshiya SabhasAct. Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Lawsafter convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction, shall be liable toadditional fine in terms of section 122(2)

(24) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise require“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya SabhaChairman by theprovisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegatedto carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of PradeshiyaSabhas.

“Authorized Officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman tocarry out particular duty.’

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measuresto make business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of any Bylaws and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge orManager of the management of that place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued licence to take all measure under theprovision of any By-Laws.

“Aerated water” means types of drinks manufactured using one type or all types of fruits,essence and syrups, and canned in bottles or any other receptacle, and it shall also includesoda water.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism.

Violation of By-laws.

Fines andpenalties.

Interpretation anddefinition.

129AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Schedule -01

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. for conducting aerated water manufactorywithin the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business centre:———————.

2. Place of the Business centre:———————.(i)Ward No.:———————.(ii)Assessment No.:———————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:———————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:———————.

3. Name of the Applicant:———————.(i)Full Name:———————.

(ii)Permanent Address:———————.

(iii)GN Division No. & Name:———————.

(iv)NIC No.:———————.

(v)Telephone No.:———————.

(vi)e-mail Address:———————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning :———————.(ii)Type of business:———————.(iii)Name of the manager of the business centre / Agent name:———————.(iv)Previous Business:———————.

5. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:———————.(ii)Address:———————.

Compositional Requirements of milk

Column IColum IIColum IIIColum IVClass of milkDesignationMilk fat minimumMilk solids other thanpercentmilk fact minimumpercent

1.BuffaloRow, pasteurised orsterilised7.09.0

7.CowDo.3.58.5

8.StandardisedPasteurised or sterilised3.258.25

9.TonedDo.2.08.5

10.FlavouredDo.2.07.2

11.SkimmedDo.-8.5

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016130A

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:/No:———————.If last year licence was obtained,Licence No:———————.Date:———————.

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows………………………………Chairman/Secretary / Authorized Officer

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer.

For the report of revenue department,

1. Type of business:………………………………………………………………………2. Fees to be paid: …………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C3. Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector.

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report ………………………………………………………………..…….……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector.

Medical Officer of Health’s Report:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health.

131AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H. report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license ……………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License.………………………………..

Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Authorized Officer

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date SecretarySigned

………………………………. …………………………………………

DatePradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016132A

Part III - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, Supervise andcontrol of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous businesswithin the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,supervise and control of annoying business, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous businesswithin the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 4 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the sub section126 (ix) (k) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya SabhasAct, No. 15 of 1987.

(4) Obtaining the annual licence by submitting the application form in schedule 01 is the dutyand obligation of the licensee.

(5) The license shall be issued to any dangerous business, annoying business or dangerous andannoying business carrying by the Chairman or Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha, if only the followingspecified conditions are duly fulfilled:

(i)The licensed premises shall be kept in clean and renewed condition(ii)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3 metres in height.(iv)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metresfrom floor level(v)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room. The area of the window shall not be less than 1/15th of the floor area.However, if the room is air-conditioned, this rule shall not be applicable(vi)The roof has to be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be atleast 1 metre max trail(vii)The floor of the rooms shall be cemented and plastered or laid with floor tiles.(viii)Dustbins shall be kept for collecting the generated garbage at licensed place andthe bins must have proper lids to prevent flies, insects and other rodents gettinginto them.(ix)Arrangements shall be made to dispose the garbage accumulated in the place, inaccordance with the provisions made under section 8 of these By-Laws(x)A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of wastewater disposed from any section of the premises;(xi)In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a waste water drainage systemarrangement may be made to divert waste water formed at the premises to the saiddrainage system in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise, actionshall be taken to divert such waste water to a soakage pit or waste water shall betreated and released to the public drainage. Further, soakage pit shall be coveredwithout Mixing with air and itshall be constructed at least fifteen Metres awayfrom the constructed well.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied asset out under By-Law No 5 in these By-Law shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

133AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(8) The garbage collected in the licensed premises shall be segregated as specified in By-LawNo. 9 in these By-Laws and put in impervious garbage bins separately and disposed once a day or morethan once a day if necessary. Further these garbage bins shall always be kept closed, except when thegarbage is being put or removed.

(9)(i)If all the garbage generated in the licensed premises are recyclable, actions shall betaken to segregate them as follows(a)Bio-degradable wastes;

(b)Glass;

(c)Paper or paper related materials;

(d)Polythene, plastic or related materials;

(e)Iron and any other metal or parts of iron or any other metal;

(f)Residues of raw materials or part of by products and parts of other products;

(g)Hazardous waste.It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure that each type of waste is put inseparate bins or containers which are organized to be covered.

(ii)Provided that the waste put in bins or containers having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman.

(10) All license holders should store the materials use for the business without annoying oreffluvial.

(11) All license holders shall carry the things which are annoying or effluvial by covering andput in to unabsorbed bags without any annoying or effluvial along the public places or roads.

(12) All license holders, shall dispose the dangerous and annoying air and gases occurring fromthe production process by enough high to the aerosphere without any bad effect. Otherwise shall bedisposed by fire or through any solidification instrument.

(13) All license holders shall safely and keep in good manner the walls of business premiseswithout absorbing any dirty.

(14) All license holders shall keep clean the baskets and other instruments use for businessactivities, and should clean every day.

(15) The tanks using for wash or dunk the leather or other things shall clean without spreadingany smell by the license holder.

(16) No person shall run an annoying business, dangerous business, and annoying and dangerousbusiness carrying within the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area, unless he or she has a valid licenceissued on the application prepared according to the specimen found in schedule 1 for the purpose ofthat, issued by the Chairman.

(17) It shall not be allowed for using the licensed place as the place for sleeping and takingfoods in night or day time by the licence holder or any person.

(18) Any license holder should not use any river, watercourse, canal, well or any drain, sea orany other opened water areas for disposal the annoying, dangerous and effluvial things, and shall notpollute above mentioned places.

Tasks not to becarried out( 16 – 18)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016134A

(19) In the event of the premises where any dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerousand annoying business is maintained under a licence issued under the By-Laws any licensee contravenesany section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to thesaid licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to theprescribed position before a specified date.

(20)The dangerous business, annoying business, or dangerous and annoying businesses decidedby Pradeshiya Sabha are included in orderly in Schedule Nos. (I), (II) and (III). It is a duty of the Chairmanto informing the applicant about issuing the license.

(21) It is a duty of the Chairman to inform the applicant whether accept to issue licenceaccordance with these By-Laws or reject with the reasons within 30 days of receiving an applicationsubmitted by a person to him for obtaining a license for any business.

(22) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary hasthe authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run annoyingbusiness, dangerous business and annoying and dangerous business.

(23) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the Secretary or any other.officer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(24) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the license has been issued, unless its validity is cancelled earlier.

(25) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any authorizedofficer.

(26) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in the By- Law No. 19, shall act asstipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written is received, theChairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extension shall not beexceeded 14 days.

(27) The Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for the place when anylicensee who received such notice mentioned By-law No. 26 in these By-Laws fails to act as stipulatedin the notice on or before the specified date.

(28) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized Officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(29) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsis an offence.

(30)(i)Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction withinthe Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of Section 122(2) in thePradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contraventionof these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction,shall be liable to additional fine in terms of Section 122(2).

(ii)Every person who runs any business or trade specified in Schedule 1, 2 and 3 withoutlicence at any place within the Pradeshiya Sabha shall guilty of an offence and shallbe liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and in case a

Functions of theLocal Authority(19-21)

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicence or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers (25-27)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-laws

Fines and penalties

135AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

continuing offence an additional fine not exceeding five hundred rupees per eachday during which said offence is continued after a conviction thereof in term, ofSection 3 of 147 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.

(31) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires

“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the provisionsof the Local Authorities Elections Act;

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary;

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabhas;

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Chairman to carry outparticular duty;

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business or product at the specified place;

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these By lawsand person who is responsible for management, is employed by the person in-charge orManager of the management of this place;

“Licensed premise” means, place for which is issued license to take all measures under theseprovisions.

Interpretation andDefinition.

FIRST SCHEDULE

Annoying Businesses

(1)Clearing and Storing Graphite.(2)Keeping for selling the fertilizer or chemical fertilizer.(3)Tanning of Leather.(4)Leather for selling.(5)Carrying on a places of animal husbandry (Meat, milk or eggs).(6)Producing of Maldive fish or storing more than 50 Kg.(7)Producing rubber and keeping rubber sheet.(8)Maintaining a veterinary hospital.(9)Keeping wholesale of perishable foods for selling.(10)Taking fish, dry fish and salted fish more than 100 Kg.(11)Icing, drying and salting meats or fish.(12)Producing coconut charcoal or wood charcoal.(13)Drying tobacco.(14)Producing animal feed.(15)Producing Poonac.(16)Boiling meats with blood.(17)Producing soap(18)Keeping and grinding animal’s bones.(19)Making trunk boxes.(20)Keeping new and old metals.(21)Keeping ruined metals(22)Making housing furniture.(23)Making cane products.(24)Maintaining carpeting industry.(25)Making syrup or fruit juice.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016136A

(26)Making sweets.(27)Dunking coconut husks(28)Producing brushes. (except tooth brushes)(29)Producing tooth brushes(30)Collecting toddy.(31)Producing vinegar.(32)Cleaving timber.(33)Producing painting paint, varnish and distempers.(34)Producing soda.(35)Painting fibres.(36)Producing leather instruments.(37)Tin fish, fruits and other foods.(38)Powdering coffee and grains.(39)Producing baking powder.(40)Making gas mantels.(41)Producing putty.(42)Making camphor.(43)Making candle.(44)Producing stencil ink, writing ink and printing ink.(45)Producing blue of cloth washing.(46)Producing sealing wax.(47)Producing perfumes.(48)Producing shocks.(49)Producing tyres or tubes.(50)Refill tyres.(51)Vulcanizing tyres.(52)Manufacturing cement.(53)Manufacturing cement product or asbestos.(54)Manufacturing sand papers.(55)Manufacturing plastic products.(56)Kilning bricks.(57)Weaving clothes by machines.(58)Manufacturing or re storing of acids.(59)Manufacturing of roofing tiles.(60)Cleaning empty gunny bags used for packing fertilizer, lime or flour.(61)Manufacturing cement blocks by machines.(62)Manufacturing garments products.(63)Running a poultry farm.(64)Manufacturing disinfectants.(65)Repairing and renovation of tyres and tubes.(66)Manufacturing shoes/leather and bags.(67)Manufacturing cigarettes and cigarettes with tobacco.

SECOND SCHEDULE

Dangerous Businesses

(1)Quarrying metal.(2)Making cool drinks (aerated water).(3)Making ice.(4)Manufacturing vegetable oils.(5)Manufacturing coconut oils.(6)Manufacturing or storing matches.(7)Manufacturing of mutilated spirit.

137AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(8)Manufacturing tea boxes. (9)Manufacturing coir or other fibers.(10)Manufacturing products by coir or other fiber.(11)Storing hay.(12)Storing used garments.(13)Manufacturing and repairing jewelleries.(14)Sawing timber by machines.(15)Quarrying lime stone.(16)Running a business using machines.(17)Storing empty gunny bags and empty bottles.(18)Repairing bicycles and motor bikes.(19)Storing used papers and newspapers.(20)Spray Painting.(21)Storing fire working or crackers.(22)Manufacturing metal products (machineries tools)(23)Running a welding work shop.(24)Manufacturing filling and repairing batteries.(25)Printers.(26)Blasting and gunpowder stores.(27)Displaying advertisement

Third Schedule –Annoying and Dangerous Businesses(1)Clearing mica.(2)Processing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom and fibers using chemicals.(3)Dry clean or dyeing.(4)Fabric painting dyeing or batik painting.(5)Electro planting metals.(6)Manufacture of oil or animal oil.(7)Kilning lime stones.(8)Manufacturing of the fireworks or crackers.(9)Processing cod-liver oil.(10)Building boarts.(11)Recharge or repairing batteries(12)Welding metals.(13)Repairing motor vehicles.(14)Servicing motor vehicles.(15)Grinding metals with machines.(16)Running a casting shop.(17)Running a tin workshop.(18)Making bodies for motor vehicles.(19)Manufacturing or refilling of insecticides or fungicides, weedicides, pesticides.(20)Manufacturing disinfectors.(21)Manufacturing of mosquito coils.(22)Manufacturing timber protects.(23)Manufacturing gal tar.(24)Manufacturing glass products.(25)Making glass mirrors.(26)Galvanize metals.(27)Manufacturing welding lead.(28)Manufacturing aluminium products.(29)Manufacturing barbed wire.(30)Manufacturing wire nails.(31)Manufacturing carbon papers and typing ribbons.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016138A

(32)Manufacturing tin, steel pipe and carbon tanks.(33)Manufacturing P.I buckets.(34)Manufacturing air conditioners and refrigerators.(35)Repairing air conditioners and refrigerators.(36)Manufacturing break liner and touch liner.(37)Manufacturing machineries.(38)Manufacturing electrical products.(39)Manufacturing fibers mixed with rubber.(40)Manufacturing storage batteries.(41)Assembling tractors.(42)Manufacturing radiator.(43)Manufacturing and repairing electrical products.(44)Manufacturing Battery.(45)Paddy mills.(46)Making coffin.(47)Manufacturing and repairing telephones.(48)Assembling and repairing electrical products.(49)Assembling and repairing computers and information technical instruments(50)Funeral service supply centre(Funeral home)

Annexure 01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For annoying business, dangerous business,and annoying and dangerous business carrying within the area of authority ofPradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Business Centre :—————————.

2. Place of the Business Centre:—————————.(i)Ward No:—————————.(ii)Assessment No:—————————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:—————————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:—————————.

3. Name of the Applicant:—————————.(i)Full Name:—————————.(ii)Permanent Address:—————————.(iii)GN Division No. & Name:—————————.(iv)NIC No:—————————.(v)Telephone No:—————————.(vi)e-mail Address:—————————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning the Business :—————————.(ii)Name of the manager of the meat Stall:—————————.(iii)Previous Business:—————————.

5. If it is rented building,(i)Name of the Owner:—————————.(ii)Address:—————————.

139AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:—————————.If last year licence was obtained,Licence No.: —————————.Date:—————————.

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with theprovisions in the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business underthe By Law.

…………………………………………..

Date . Signature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows:

………………………………Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment sectionWard:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Administrative Officer

For the report of revenue department,

(i)Type of business:………………………………………………………………………(ii)Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C(iii)Remarks:………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health:…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016140A

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………

…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Chief Revenue Inspector

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary

Approved/Not Approved

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya SabhaChairman/Authorized Officer.

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman

………………………. ………………………………………… DateSecretary

Signed

………………………………………………………………, DateChairman/Authorized Officer.

141AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Part IV - Standard By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, administrate, control andmonitor of slaughter-houses within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, andadministrate, monitor and control the slaughter house within the area of authority of the PradeshiyaSabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of maintaining sanitation, health and providingproper food for the public residing within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the Section 3 of the PradeshiyaSabhas Act No 15 of 1987.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the subSection 126 (xi)(i) read with sections 122 (1) and 102 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No 15 of 1987 andChapter iii the of butchers Ordinance

(4) Every public slaughter house shall be under the supervising of an officer appointed by theproper authority and he shall be called superintendent of slaughter house.

(5) Any licensed butcher or special permit holder shall be permitted to slaughter animalsduring the hours only fixed by Chairman from time to time.

(6) Licensed butcher or special licensed person shall slaughter animals only at such placeswithin the slaughter house that are assigned to him by the superintendent of the slaughter-house.

(7) No licensed butcher shall slaughter any animals unless the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabhashall have issued to him a printed permit duly filled in the form authorized by the him. The printedpermit before issue shall be duly filled in by the veterinary surgeon or qualified Officer and signed byhim and by the butcher to whom it is issued, and shall bear the date of the issue.

(8) The slaughter house shall be declared accordance with the provision of the Butchers Act

(9) The certificate mentioned in this By-Laws No. 38 shall be produced to the superintendentof the slaughter-house before the animal is admitted into the slaughterhouse premise.

(10) Should any person claim any animals while exposing in a public slaughter house premisesprevious to slaughter the slaughtering of such animal shall be stayed, and the person who has brought itshall be required for with to pay any fees due in respect of such animal and to remove it from theslaughter house.

(11) All animals brought to or left at a slaughterhouse shall be properly secured with ropes toprevent their escaping.

(12) Every licensed butcher shall submit to the Superintendent of the slaughterhouse a certifiedcopy of his licence and the certificate of registration of every servant whom he employs at the slaughterhouse as he shall have obtained them.

(13) The skins, entrails and offal of slaughtered cattle shall be collected by the butcher or hisemployees in places set apart in order to be washed and cleaned before their removal.

(14) When a licensed butcher or his registered servants are using the slaughter houses, thelicensed butcher shall be respond any damage done to the slaughter houses, either by his own act or bythe act of his servants, and shall be liable on demand such amount, as the Chairman shall think fit for thedamage so done; in failure of which the Chairman shall have the either of cancelling his licence or ofrecovering the amount of such damage from the licensed butcher and his sureties, or both.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-30)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016142A

(15) The motor vans, in which licensed butchers and others are required by these By-laws toremove meat from slaughterhouse shall be produced before the superintendent of the slaughter housefor inspection whenever they enter the slaughter premises, and shall not be permitted to remove meatfrom the slaughter house unless they are found to be clean and in service diction to the satisfaction ofthe said superintendent.

(16) Fees to be charged shall be prescribed from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha byresolution in respect of the following per head of cattle:-

(i)For the use of the slaughter house by-(a)Cattle (other than buffaloes)(b)Pig(c)Sheep and goats.(ii)For feeding (for each period of twenty-four hours or any part (thereof)-(a)Cattle(b)Pig(iii)For occupation of shed:(a)Cattle

(17) The Chairman may, after two days’ notice by publicity cause any animal which has beenretained at the slaughterhouse for default of payment of fees due on it to be sold by public auction, andshall out of the proceeds retain any fees due at incurred in respect of such animal and pay over thesurplus, if any, on application, to the person who shall have be brought such animal for slaughter to theslaughterhouse.

(18) Animals affected with infectious diseases, when brought to the slaughter house, shall beseized and conducted to such place or places as the Chairman shall from time to time appoint to bethere destroyed or disposed of as the shall think proper.

(19) Should the person who has brought to the slaughter house any animal for the slaughter ofwhich a permit has been refused or the slaughter or which has been forbidden fail to remove it from theslaughterhouse premises within twelve hours after such refusal or prohibition, the Chairman may aftertwo days’ notice by publicity cause such animal to be sold by public auction shall out of proceeds retainthe amount of fees due and expenses incurred in respect of such animals and pay over the surplus, ifthere be any on application, to the person who shall have brought such animals for slaughter to theslaughterhouse.

(20) As specified in By-Laws No. 41, the person removing such meat, skin entrails or offalshall produce such pass or passes for inspection on demand by any Pradeshiya Sabha officer or Policeofficer and should such person fail to do so, such meat, skin, entrails, or offal shall be liable to be seizedand removed to the Pradeshiya Sabha Office or to the Police station to be disposed of as may bedirected by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, without any compensation to the owner.

(21) The application for such special license as per By-Laws No. 44 shall contain informationwith reference to the animal similar to that contained in Form A prescribed in the Schedule to theBranding sale and Transfer of cattle Act (chapter 473) and shall be accompanied by a report from apolice or Pradeshiya Sabha Officer or Grama Sevaka of the applicant’s district certifying that the animalbelongs to the applicant. A fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha time to time shall be charged for thisspecial licence.

(22) Every slaughter-house shall be thoroughly washed and swept twice at least daily at suchtimes as the Chairman may fix.

143AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(23) Every slaughter-house shall be lime-washed, or painted both side (in and out), onceat least in every three months.

(24) Every slaughter –house shall be paved with granite stones or flat paving bricks or tiles, orconcrete or asphalt, and the jrints fresh pointed with motor once at least annually.

(25) If on any animal which has been approved as aforesaid being slaughtered the carease shallappear or otherwise unfit for human food, the said superintendent or other person authorized by theChairman shall cause the said to be then and there destroyed or so disposed of as to prevent its beingexposed for sale or used for human food. Should it be denied that the meat is unfit for human food, thesaid superintendent or other authorized person shall forthwith call upon the Veterinary Surgeon or MedicalOfficer of Health to proceed with him to the slaughter house and there inspect that said meat; and shouldit be decided by the said Veterinary Surgeon or Medical Officer of Health, whose decision in the mattershall be final, that the meat in unfit for human food, it shall be lawful for such superintendent or otherauthorized person thereafter to destroy or dispose of the same as here in before provided in these by-Laws.

(26) None but the butchers, their assistants, and the Pradeshiya Sabha Officers attached to theslaughter house and those authorized shall be admitted within the premises during the process ofslaughtering, skinning, or cutting up the carcases.

(27) All the offal, entrails, or other refuse left at the slaughter house by the butchers or theirassistants shall be disposed.

(28) Skins, offal, entrails, or other refuse left at the slaughter house after the hours fixed by thesuperintendent without this officer’s sanction, shall be considered as abandoned, and shall become theproperty of the Pradeshiya Sabha, who may dispose of them as it shall think fit.

(29) The superintendent of the slaughter house or other person authorized as aforesaid shallkeep a register of all by him giving a description of the cattle and their brand marks, and the otherparticulars set forth in such form as shall be by the Pradeshiya Sabha, such register shall be accessibleto the public at the office of the slaughter house between the house 1.00 p.m and 4 p.m except onSundays and public Holidays.

(30) It shall not lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher to slaughter any cattle(other than buffaloes), sheep, goat or pig without a special licence from the Chairman or contrary to thetenor of such special licence. A fee as decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha by resolution for every suchspecial licence shall be charged .

(31) Every licensed butcher shall register at the Pradeshiya Sabha Office the names of theservants whom he desires to employ slaughter house in his trade as butcher, and the Chairman mayrefuse to register any particular name or cancel the name those already registered. Such licensed butchershall not employ or continue to employ any person who is not so registered name has been so cancelled.

(32) No person suffering from any skin disease, leprosy, or any infectious or contagious diseaseshall be allowed within the slaughter-house.

(33) It shall be lawful the superintendent of the slaughter-house or the Pradeshiya SabhaVeterinary surgeon to forbid of any animals found to be diseased or otherwise unfit to be slaughter forhuman food, and whether permit to slaughter has been seized and treated like animals affected withinfectious or contagious diseases.

(34) No diseased cattle , sheep, goat or pig shall be brought to the slaughter house.

Tasks not to becarried out(31 – 44).

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016144A

(35)(i)No person shall bring into the Pradeshiya Sabha limits the meat of any sheep, goat,cattle, pig or poultry slaughtered outside the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha; Providethat the proceeding of this paragraph shall not apply to meat packed in hermeticallysealed this,

(ii)No place shall be used as a slaughterhouse within the Pradeshiya Sabha limitswithout a licence issued by Pradeshiya Sabha accordance with the section 102 ofPradeshiya Sabha Act .Chairman or an Authorized Officer may issues, refuse, stopor revoke for that at his discretion,

(iii)No person shall be allowed to slaughter any animals except a licensed butcher orspecial licence issued under the By-Law No. 30.

(36) No person shall sell or expose for sale within the limits (i)The meat of any sheep, goat, cattle, pig or poultry slaughtered outside the limit ofPradeshiya Sabha, or

(ii)Any meat (whether chilled, frozen, salted or smoked or otherwise preserved)imported into the islands unless such meat has been inspected and passed as fit folkhuman consumption by the Pradeshiya Sabha Veterinary surgeon or an officerauthorized in behalf by the Chairman Provided that the preceding provisions ofthese by laws shall not apply to any meat sold in hermetically sealed tins.

(37) No person shall remove or permit, cause to be removed any meat of any animals from aPradeshiya Sabha slaughter house any other place of slaughter to market or other place within thePradeshiya Sabha, unless the same shall be conveyed in a motor is constructed as to protect the saidmeat effectually from sun, dust and rain and screen it from public view. And no person shall expose orcause to be exposed to public view any raw skin or skins or raw hides during carriage from place toplace.

(38) No permit shall be issued for the slaughter of cattle unless a licensed butcher produce acertificate in his favour in form A prescribed in the schedule to Branding sale and transfer of cattle Act(Chapter 473), or unless the person wishing to sell the animal to the butcher appears with the butcherbefore the superintendent of the slaughter-house and produces a similar certificate in his favour andsigns a declaration he is prepared to sell to the butcher.

(39) It shall not be lawful for any licensed butcher or other person to produce any certificaterequired for the purpose of obtaining a permit for slaughter which certificate is not issued in respect ofthe animals produced or which is false in any particulars, or the entries in which do not correspondevery particular with the description and brands of the animals for which it is produced. Any such animalshall at once be removed by the person who has brought it, and shall not be admitted into the slaughter-house premises.

(40) No person shall slaughter any animals for which a permit to slaughter has been issued untilall fees and expense of slaughterhouse have been paid and in case of non-payment the animals may bedealt with under by-Law No. 19.

(41) No person shall remove any meat, skin, entrails, or offal of any animals slaughtered at thepublic slaughter house without its being accompanied by a pass, in the form authorized by the Chairmanand signed by the Superintendent of the slaughter house or other officer appointed to issue such passes,

(42) No dogs shall be admitted into the slaughter house and no owner or person in charge of adog shall bring it into or allow it to enter any slaughter house. All dogs found there shall be made over tothe police to be dealt with as stray dogs.

145AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(43) No licensed butcher or any of his registered servants or other person admitted inside aslaughter house shall make any noise or quarrel, or use insulting, abusive, or obscene language, and anyperson contravening this by-Laws may be turned out of the slaughter house by the superintendent or hisassistant.

(44) It shall not be lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher within the PradeshiyaSabha to slaughter any cattle unless he shall have obtained a special license from the Chairman and anyperson obtaining such special license from the Chairman, and any person obtaining such special licenseshall not slaughter except at the place named in such license or under any conditions there in set forth.

(45) Authorized officer who has delegated by authority shall have the power to do the inspectionto confirm the meat of any animal slaughtered in the public slaughter house only.

(46) A fee as decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time shall be paid before slaughtereach animal as specified in these By-Laws.

(47) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(48) The validity of every license issued to slaughter the animals under the provision of theseBy-Laws shall expire within seven days from date of issue.

(49) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at licensed premises.

(50) Licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orauthorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(51) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsis an offence.

(52) (i)Contravention or breach of any of these by-laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction withinthe Pradeshiya Sabha limits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in thePradeshiya Sabha Act No 15 of 1987. Further in case of continued contravention ofthese By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction,shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2).

(ii)Contravention or breach of this by-law No. 35(ii) in this part shall be punishableoffence and if convicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which hasjurisdiction within the Pradeshiya limits liable to the penalties in terms of section102(2) in the Pradeshiya SabhaAct. Further in case of continued contravention ofthese By-Laws after convicted before a court of law which has the jurisdiction,shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 102(2).

(53) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires.“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha.Chairman by theprovisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act.

“Proper Authority “means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or authorized officer

Function of theLocal Authority

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

violation of By-laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016146A

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegatedto carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of PradeshiyaSabha”

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Pradeshiya SabhaChairman to carry out particular duty.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measuresto make business or product at the specified place.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provision of these byLaws of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager of the management of this place.

“Licensed premise means” place for which is issued license to take all measure underthis provision.

“Veterinary surgeon” means the veterinary Surgeon of Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Animal” means animals belonging to any kind of cattle, sheep and goats and pig

Part V- Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, monitor and control of sale ofmeat within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize,monitor and control of sale of meat within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of1987.

(3) By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by Chapter 201Butchers Act and the sub sections (9) (x) of 126 (ix)(j) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, readwith section 122 (1) of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.

(4) If only the premises applied for is in conformity with the conditions set out below, theChairman or Authorized officer shall issue a licence on the application specified in schedule 01 toanybody to carry on a meat sales centre:-(i)The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered withcement or applied with rust proof metal sheets.

(ii)The premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall befinished off with cement or laid with tiles.

(iii)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room where meat is exhibited for sale. The area of the windows shall not beless than 1/15th of the floor area. However, if the room is air-conditioned, thisrule shall not be applicable.

(iv)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height

(v)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3metresfrom floor level.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

147AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(vi)The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves should be atleast 1 metre.

(vii)There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessarygradient to facilitate the flow of waste water.

(viii)While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water drainingthrough the drains referred to in paragraph (vii) flowing to any public source ofwater, action shall be taken to drain off such waste water to a suction pit.

(ix)The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.

(x)While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat salecentre shall be made available action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales toground such waste material at least 0.5 metres deep in the ground or hand over suchwaste to a collection truck of the Pradeshiya Sabha in accordance with provisionsdecided upon by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

(xi)While sufficient lavatory facilities for the use of the persons working in the premisesshall be made available suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use ofafter the use of the lavatory shall be supplied.

(xii)Every licensee of a meat stall cause at least one spittoon to be kept on the licensedpremises that those employed on the premises may have access to them.

(xiii)Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on theoutside of this premises a board with his name and the words “Licensed Meat Stall”legibly painted there in Sinhala, Tamil and English.

(xiv)Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause copy of these By-Laws relating to meatstall in Sinhala, English and Tamil to be framed and hung in a prominent place in thelicenced premises. He shall also keep on the premises a list of the names andaddresses of all the employees, including vendors of meat, so as to be at all timesavailable for inspection.

(xv)Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause the walls of every room forming part ofthe meat stall, except such parts as are covered with glazed tiles or are plastered incement, to be lime-washed, and all the woodwork to be lime-washed or, if oil-painted, to be washed with hot water and soap at least four times a year or at anyother times ordered by the Chairman in writing.

(5) At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash andclean with disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat,other utensils and the places exhibiting the meat for sale.

(6) Provided that action is taken to transport meat in a vehicle or a box or any other utensil thatcould be securely closed to prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal, no person shalltransport any species of meat and after the transport of meat action shall be taken to wash by water withdisinfectant fluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in transporting meat.

(7) Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell thedrains in and around any licensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processingor sale of meat.

(8) Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016148A

(9) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials after washingtheir bodies or bath when they are on duty at the license premises.

(10) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year.

(11) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.(12) (i).Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled,action shall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories. –(a)biodegradable waste,

(b)glass ,

(c)paper or paper based materials,

(d)polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(e)iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ,

(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process orby products or other parts produced in the production line ,

(g)dangerous waste ,And it shall be the responsibility of the licensee to see thatthey are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(ii) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman .

(13) The Chairman shall, on application made to him by the licensee of a meat stall, issue cardsof registration free for the use of every person employed by such licensee in transporting meat from theslaughterhouse to the meat stall for sale.

(14) Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep ample supply of drinking water at the licensedpremises .

(15) Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep the licensed premises open every day except suchdays on which the Government of Sri Lanka/ the Chairman requires to be closed. Further stall shall beopened from 07.00 a.m. to 07.00 p.m. it is not decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(16) No person shall use any other premises than a market for the purpose of selling meatwithout a valid licence issued by the Chairman.

(17) No licensee of meat stall shall sell or expose for sale on the licensed premises any meatother than meat of animals slaughtered in a public slaughterhouse which is within the administrativelimits of Pradeshiya Sabha and which has been duly declared and proclaimed under section 21 of ButcherOrdinance (Chapter 201), or in a place appointed for the purpose by the proper Authority under section11 of the said Ordinance, or under a permit issued accordance with the section 14 of the said Ordinance.ThePradeshiya Sabha Veterinary surgeon or any other officer Authorized by him cause the meat of animalsso slaughtered to be sealed with a seal to identify such meat.

Tasks not to becarried out (16 – 25)

149AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(18) Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meatstall are stored in a deep freezer and the said deep freezer has been properly activated from the time ofstorage until the opening of the stall for sales on the following day, no species of meat left behindunsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on thefollowing day.

(19) No person shall keep any animal or bird in the licensed premises on any pretext whatsoever.

(20) No person shall spit within a meat stall except into a spittoon provided for the purpose.

(21) No person shall be allowed that sale of meat done by the visiting to place to place withinthe Pradeshiya Sabha limits.

(22) No person shall sleep in any place of licensed meat stall .

(23) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who hasrecently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing anybody who issuffering from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report,shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employedin the place, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

(24) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.

(25) Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no othergoods or clothes or mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

(26) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of meat kept for sale or displayed for sale inside the premises of any meat stall for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(27) In the event of the premises where any sale of meat is maintained under a licence issuedunder these By-Laws in this part any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in thispart the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplishnecessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(28) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary hasthe authority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run sale of meatcentre.

(29) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(30) The validity of every license issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelledearlier.

(31) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect thestandards of these By-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

Functions of theLocal Authority(26 - 27 )

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpowers

Valid period oflicense or permit

Procedure ofinspection andpowers(31 – 34)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016150A

(32) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any Authorizedofficer.

(33) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 27 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extensionshall not be exceeded 14 days.

(34) It shall be lawful for the Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for theplace when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 33 in By-Law fails to act asstipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(35)The licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orAuthorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(36) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(37) Contravention or breach of any of these by-Laws shall be punishable offence and if convictedafter a prosecution before a court of Laws, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabha limitsliable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987. Furtherin case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of Laws which hasthe jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2).

(38) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by theprovisions of the Local Authorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegatedto carry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of PradeshiyaSabhas .

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Pradeshiya SabhaChairman to carry out particular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under provisions of these byLaws of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager for the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure underthis provision.

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measuresto make business at the specified place.

“Meat stall or Meat sale centre” means any place where any kind of meat is kept for saleor display it for sale or stored inside the place of any meat stall for sale.

“Meat” mean beef,mutton or pork.

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws

Fines andpenalties

Interpretation anddefinition

151AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

SCHEDULE 01

Application for Business Tax / Licence 20….. for meat stall within the area of authority ofPradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Meat Stall:————————.

2. Place of the Meat Stall:————————.

(i)Ward No.:————————.(ii)Assessment No.:————————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:————————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:-

3. Name of the Applicant:————————.

(i)Full Name:————————.(ii)Permanent Address:————————.(iii)GN Division No. & Name:————————.(iv)NIC No.:————————.(v)Telephone No.:————————.(vi)e-mail Address:————————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning the meat Stall:————————.(ii)Name of the manager of the meat Stall:————————.(iii)Previous Business:————————.

5. If it is rented building,(iv)Name of the Owner:————————.(v)Address:————————.

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes/No:————————.

If last year licence was obtained,Licence No:————————.Date:————————.

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the Year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

………………………………………..DateSignature of Applicant.

For office use

For report as follows :

………………………………Chairman/Secretary/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016152A

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date Administrative Officer.

For the report of revenue department,

1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2.Fees to be paid:…………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3.Remarks:……………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. …………………………………………

Date. Revenue Inspector.

For the report of the Medical Officer of Health,Public Health Inspector’s Report:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Medical Officer of Health

For the report of Chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….

Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..

C.O.C.:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. ………………………………. ………………………………………… Date. Chief Revenue Inspector.

153AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license………………………………………

…………………… ………………………………………… Date Secretary.

Approved/Not Approved

……………………….……………………………DatePradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman

……………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary.

Signed

………………………… ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016154A

Part VI - Standard By- Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, monitor and control of saleof fish within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(1) By-Laws in this part may be cited as the By-Laws in relating to formulate, regularize, monitorand control of sale of fish within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha

(2) By-Laws in this part are made for the purpose of protecting sanitation and health of publicresiding within the Pradeshiya Sabha limit as per the section 3 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of1987.

(3) These By-Laws are made by virtue of the power vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by the subsections (9) (j) of 126 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No 15 of 1987, read with section 122 (1) of PradeshiyaSabhas Act No 15 of 1987.

(4) If only the premises applied for is in conformity with the conditions set out below, theChairman or Authorized officer shall issue a licence on the application specified in schedule 01 toanybody to carry on a fish sales centre:-

The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement orapplied with rust proof metal sheets.

(i)The premises where fish is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall befinished off with cement or laid with tiles,

(ii)The premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall befinished off with cement or laid with tiles,

(iii)Windows which are capable being opened outward or sideways shall be installed toeach room where fish is exhibited for sale. The area of the window shall not be lessthan 1/15th of the floor area. However, if the room is air-conditioned, this ruleshall not be applicable,

(iv)Walls of each room of the licensed place shall not be less than 3metres in height,

(v)Each room of the licensed place shall be ceiled in height not less than 3 metresfrom floor level,

(vi)The roof shall be made of some permanent solid material. Eaves of the roof has tobe at least 2.5metres from the ground level and the width of the eaves shall be atleast 1 metre,

(vii)There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessarygradient to facilitate the flow of waste water,

(viii)While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water drainingthrough the drains referred to in paragraph (vii) flowing to any public source ofwater, action shall be taken to drain off such waste water to a suction pit,

(ix)The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall beclosed to the air,

(x)While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the fish salecentre shall be made available action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales toground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep in the ground or hand over suchwaste to a collection truck of the Pradeshiya Sabha in accordance with provisionsdecided upon by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

Name of By-Laws

Objective

Legislativeenactment formaking By-Laws

Tasks to beexecuted (4-15)

155AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(xi)While sufficient lavatory facilities for the use of the persons working in the premisesshall be made available suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use ofafter the use of the lavatory shall be supplied,

(xii)Every licensee of a fish stall cause at least one spittoon to be kept on the licensedpremises that those employed on the premises may have access to them,

(xiii)Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous position on theoutside of his premises a board with his name and the words “Licenced Fish Stall”legibly painted there in Sinhala, Tamil and English,

(xiv)Every licensee of a fish stall shall cause copy of these by-Laws relating to fish stallin Sinhala, English and Tamil to be framed and hung in a prominent place in thelicensed premises. He shall also keep on the premises a list of the name andaddresses of all the employees, including vendors of fish, so as to be at all timesavailable for inspection,

(xv)Every licensee of a fish stall shall cause the walls of every room forming part of thefish stall, except such parts as are covered with glazed tiles or are plastered incement, to be lime-washed, and all the woodwork to be lime-washed or, if oil-painted, to be washed with hot water and soap at least four times a year or at anyother times ordered by the Chairman in writing

(5) At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action shall be taken to wash and cleanwith disinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, otherutensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale.

(6) Provided that action is taken to transport fish in a vehicle or a box or any other utensil thatcould be securely closed to prevent entry of flies or insects or any other kind of animal, no person shalltransport any species of fish and after the transport of fish action shall be taken to wash with disinfectantfluid the vehicle or the box or the other utensil used in transporting fish.

(7) Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell thedrains in and around any licensed fish stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processingor sale of fish.

(8) Any licensed fish stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

(9) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safetymaterials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they areon duty at fish stall.

(10) It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to make all employees engaged at the licensedpremises, to undergo a medical test at least once a year

(11) It shall be the duty of licensee to provide the pure drinking water, clean towels, nail brushand soap or liquid soap to every employee at the licensed premise.

(12) (i)Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled,action shall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories. –(a)biodegradable waste,

(b)glass ,

(c)paper or paper based materials,

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016156A

(d)polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(e)iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ,

(f) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production processor by products or other parts produced in the production line ,

(g)dangerous waste ,

And it shall be the responsibilities of the licensee to see that they are put inseparate containers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(ii)Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (i) above is disposed of under the program of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman,

(13) The Chairman shall, on application made to him by the licensee of a fish stall, issue cardsof registration free for the use of every person employed by such licensee in transporting fish for sale

(14) Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep ample supply of drinking water at the licensedpremises.

(15) Every licensee of a fish stall shall keep the licensed premises open every day except suchdays on which the Government of Srilanka/ the Chairman requires to be closed. Further stall shall beopened from 07.00 a.m. to 07.00 p.m. ,if it is not to decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(16) No person shall use any other premises than a market for the purpose of selling fishwithout a valid licence issued by the Chairman.

(17) Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed fishstall are stored in a deep freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time ofstorage until the opening of the stall for sales on the following day, no species of fish left behind unsoldshall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.

(18) No person shall keep any animal or bird in the licensed premises on any pretext whatsoever.

(19) No person shall spit within a fish stall except into a spittoon provided for the purpose.

(20) No persons who sell fish with licence for hawking shall deposit waste of fish by the sidesof the road when selling such fish and they shall cause such waste to be disposed properly.

(21) No person shall be allowed that sale of fish done by the visiting to place to place within thePradeshiya Sabha limits without a licence obtain from the Chairman. No licensee of a fish stall shallpermit any person to transport to sale from licensed premises any fish except in a closed vehicle or aclosed basket, tin, or other suitable receptacle. He shall see that every such vehicle basket, tin or otherreceptacle is at all-time kept clean and wholesome.

(22) No person shall sleep in any place of licensed fish stall.

(23) Any person suffering from any contagious disease or a skin disease, or a person who hasrecently suffered from such disease, or any person who has been recently nursing anybody who issuffering from such disease or any person not completed the period mentioned on the medical report,shall not be engaged in any work of the authorized place, or allowed be an assistant to a person employedin the place, unless the incubation period of the disease has lapsed ;

Tasks not to becarried out(16 – 25).

157AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

(24) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engagehimself or employ anybody else in any form of sale at a fish stall.

(25) Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of fish no othergoods or clothes or mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

(26) It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer, to purchase a sample of anykind of fish kept for sale or displayed for sale or inside the premises of any fish stall for the purpose ofinspection at the licensed premise.

(27) In the event of the premises where any sale of fish is maintained under a licence issuedunder the By-Laws any licence contravenes any section of these By-Laws set out in this part the Chairmanshall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditionsto restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

(28) Under the sub section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987, the Secretary has theauthority to charge for licence fees not exceeded the maximum amount stated to run sale of fish centre.

(29) It shall be lawful to the Chairman to delegate any of the powers, duties and functionsconverted or imposed upon or vested in the Chairman by these By-Laws to the secretary or any otherofficer of Pradeshiya Sabha.

(30) The validity of every licence issued under the provision of these By-Laws shall expire on31st December of each year for which the licence has been issued, unless its validity is cancelledearlier.

(31) The Chairman or any Authorized Officer has the power to inspect the standards of theseBy-Laws within the specified period at the licensed premises.

(32) It shall be duty of the licensee who have received licence under the provisions to cooperatefor inspection and shall not make obstacle to stop such inspection to the Chairman or any Authorizedofficer.

(33) Any licensee, who receives such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 27 in these By- Laws,shall act as stipulated in the notice, before the specified date. If any acceptable request in written isreceived, the Chairman has the power to extend the specified date. However, the period of extensionshall not be exceeded 14 days.

(34) It shall be lawful for the Chairman has the legal power to cancel the licence issued for theplace when any licensee who received such notice mentioned in By-Law No. 33 in these By-Laws failsto act as stipulated in the notice on or before the specified date.

(35) The licensee or any person may submit any written or verbal complaint to the Chairman orauthorized officer and proper inquiry shall be carried out and the solution shall be provided by theseofficers.

(36) Contravention of one or more than one or all of the provisions included in these By-Lawsshall be an offence.

(37) Contravention or breach of any of these By-Laws shall be punishable offence and ifconvicted after a prosecution before a court of law, which has jurisdiction within the Pradeshiya Sabhalimits liable to the penalties in terms of section 122(2) in the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act No. 15 of 1987.Further in case of continued contravention of these By-Laws after convicted before a court of law whichhas the jurisdiction, shall be liable to additional fine in terms of section 122(2).

Function of theLocalAuthority(26 - 27 )

Charges and fees

Delegation ofpower

Valid period oflicense or permit

procedure ofinspection andpowers(31 – 34)

Complaints andresolvingmechanism

Violation of By-Laws

Fines andpenalties

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016158A

(38) In these By-Laws unless the context otherwise requires“The Chairman” means who has been elected as Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman by the provisionsof the Local Authorities Elections Act.

“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated tocarry out the powers, functions and duties of the Secretary.

“Pradeshiya Sabha” means, the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the Act of Pradeshiya Sabha

“Authorized officer” means any officer given authority in written by the Pradeshiya SabhaChairman to carry out particular duty.

“Licensee” means any person whosoever obtained a license under the provisions of these byLaws of the hotel and person who is responsible for management, is employed by the personin-charge or Manager for the management of this place.

“Licensed premise” means place for which is issued license to take all measure under thisprovision

“The power to inspect within the specified period” means opportunity for take measures tomake business at the specified place.

“Fish stall or Fish sale centre” means place where any kind of fish is kept for sale or display itfor sale or stored in inside the place of any fish stall for sale.

Interpretation anddefinition

SCHEDULE -01

Application for Business tax / Licence 20….. For Fish stall within the area of authority ofPradeshiya Sabha

1. Name of the Fish Stall:———————.

2. Place of the Fish Stall:———————.(i)Ward No:———————.(ii)Assessment No:———————.(iii)Name of the Road/Street:———————.(iv)GN Division No. & Name:———————.

3. Name of the Applicant:———————.(i)Full Name:———————.(ii)Permanent Address:———————.(iii)GN Division No. & Name:———————.(iv)NIC No.:———————.(v)Telephone No.:———————.(vi)e-mail Address:———————.

4.(i)Date of Beginning the fish Stall:———————.(ii)Name of the manager of the fish Stall:———————.(iii)Previous Business:-

5. If it is rented building,(iv)Name of the Owner:———————.(v)Address:———————.

159AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016

6. Whether last year licence was obtained:-Yes:No:———————.If last year licence was obtained,Licence No:———————.Date:———————.

I do hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisionsin the By Law. I apply for the licence for the year 20….. to run the Industry/Business under the By Law.

…………………………………………..Date.Signature of Applicant.

For office useFor report as follows

………………………………Chairman / secretary/ Authorized officer

For the report of assessment section

Ward:………………………… Assessment No.:……………………

Name of Street:………………………………………………………………………………….

Name of the Owner:……………………………………………………………………………

Detail of Assessment:…………………………………………………………………………

Annual Value:………………………… Arrears of the assessment tax:………………….

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date. Administrative Officer.

For the report of revenue department,

1.Type of business:………………………………………………………………………

2.Fees to be paid:……………………………………………………………………Under A/B/C

3.Remarks:…………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Revenue Inspector

For the report of the medical officer of health,

Public Health Inspector’s Report:……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Public Health Inspector

Report of Medical Officer of Health:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date. Medical Officer of Health.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'02PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2016160A

For the report of chief Revenue Inspector,

Rent Agreement:………………………. Nature:………………………….Environmental License:………………… M.O.H report:……………………..C.O.C:……………………………………. Excise License:…………………

Application is recommended/not recommended for the following reasons:………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………..

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date . Chief Revenue Inspector.

Secretary’s Recommendation

Recommended for approval to issue license/not issue license…………………………………………

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary.

Approved/Not Approved

………………………. ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

For the report of Revenue Branch

Receipt No.:……………………………….. Date of the Receipt:…………………………….

License No.:………………………………. Date of the License:………………………….....

Recommended to issue License. ………………………………..Sectional head (Revenue)

Submit for signature of Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman

………………………………. ………………………………………… Date Secretary.

Signed

…………………… ………………………………………… Date Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman/Authorized Officer.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.