THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of December 08, 2017

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 12.12.2017)

MEDICAL (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Health, Nutrition andIndigenous Medicine

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 12 of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105)(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section asamended is to increase the number of members of the Medical Council by including threemedical specialists and one dental specialist into such Council.

Clause 3 : This clause amends section 20 of the principal enactment, and the legal effectof the section as amended is to make provisions enabling the registrar of the Medical Councilto keep a register including the names of medical and dental specialists.

Clause 4 : This clause inserts new sections 39A, 39B and 39C in the principal enactment,and the legal effect of the amendment is to—

(a)specify the qualifications required for a medical or dental specialist to be registeredunder the principal enactment;

(b)provide for the Medical Council to register the medical and dental specialists withspecified qualifications; and

(c)provide for making the registration under the principal enactment to be compulsoryfor practicing as a medical or dental specialist.

Clause 5 : This clause amends section 74 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as amended is to include the definitions of the expressions “eligibility criteriaof the Post Graduate Institute of Medicine”, “Medical Service Minutes” and “Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine”.

Clause 6 : This clause makes provisions to enable medical and dental specialists engagedin the practice of respective specialty immediately prior to the date of commencement of thisAct, to register within a period of 12 months.

Medical (Amendment)1

5

10

15

2—PL 010466—475 (11/2017)

20

L.D.—O. 55/2015

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MEDICAL ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 105)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–

1.This Act may be cited as the Medical (Amendment)

Act, No of 2017.

2.Section 12 of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105)

(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby

amended in subsection (1), by the insertion immediately

after paragraph (c) thereof of the following paragraphs:–

“(cc)three members elected by the medical specialists

referred to in subsections (1) , (3) and (4) of section

39A;

(ccc)one member elected by the dental specialists

referred to in subsection (2) of section 39A;”.

3.Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended in subsection (1), by the insertion immediately

after paragraph (a) thereof of the following paragraph:-–

“(aa)a register of medical and dental specialists which

contains the names of every medical specialist and

dental specialist who possesses a qualification

referred to in section 39A and has obtained

registration under section 39B;”.

Short title.

Amendmentof section 12of Chapter105.

Amendmentof section 20of theprincipalenactment.

2Medical (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

4.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 39 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 39A, 39B and 39C of thatenactment:–

39A. (1) A medical practitioner registeredunder section 29, who possesses a qualificationrequired for Specialist Medical Officer Grade,as specified in the Medical Service Minutes,shall be eligible to be registered as a medicalspecialist under section 39B.

(2) A dentist registered under section 43,who possesses a qualification required forSpecialist Medical Officer Grade, as specifiedin the Medical Service Minutes, shall beeligible to be registered as a dental specialistunder section 39B.

(3) A medical practitioner registerd undersection 29 or a dentist registered under section43, who has successfully completed specialisttraining in a country other than Sri Lanka andobtained a specialist medical or dentalqualification which satisfies the eligibilitycriteria of the Post Graduate Institute ofMedicine to practice the respective specialty,shall be eligible to be registered as a medicalor dental specialist, as the case may be, undersection 39B.

(4) Any person who has obtained a graduateand post graduate qualification in medicine ordentistry from any university or medical ordental school of any country other thanSri Lanka, recognized by the Medical Counciland satisfies the eligibility criteria of the PostGraduate Institute of Medicine to practice therespective specialty shall be eligible to beregistered as a medical or dental specialist, asthe case may be, under section 39B.

30

Insertion ofnew sections39A, 39B and39C in theprincipalenactment.“Qualificationsrequired forregistrationas a medicalor dentalspecialist.

35

Medical (Amendment)3

5

10

15

20

39B. Any medical practitioner, dentist or aperson who possesses any one of the specialistmedical or dental qualifications referred to insection 39A shall, upon application made to theMedical Council in the prescribed form, alongwith the prescribed fee for registration, beregistered as a medical or dental specialist inthe respective field of medicine or dentistry, if-

(a) he is of good character; and

(b)(i) he produces a certificate ofregistration under section 29 in thecase of a medical practitioner whopossesses a qualification referred toin subsection (1) of section 39A; or

(ii) he produces a certificate ofregistration under section 43 in thecase of a dentist who possesses aqualification referred to insubsection (2) of section 39A; or

(iii) he produces a certificate ofregistration under section 29 orsection 43 in the case of a medicalpractitioner or a dentist whopossesses a qualification referred toin subsection (3) of section 39A; or

(iv) he has obtained the provisionalregistration required for the Boardcertification, in the case of a personwho possesses a qualificationreferred to in subsection (4) ofsection 39A; and

(c) he produces a Board Certification or aCertificate of Accreditation in respectof Board Certification, as the case may

25

30

Registrationas a medicalor dentalspecialist.

4Medical (Amendment)

be, issued by the Post Graduate Instituteof Medicine, upon satisfying theeligibility criteria of the Post GraduateInstitue of Medicine.

39C. No person, not being a medical ordental specialist registered under section 39B,shall take or use any name, title or additionimplying or tending to the belief that he is amedical or dental specialist who possesses aqualification referred to in section 39A or, byany act or omission intentionally cause orpermit any person to believe that he is a medicalor dental specialist registered under section39B, and to act upon such belief.”.

5.Section 74 of the principal enactment is herebyamended–

(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “estate apothecary” of the followingdefinition:–

“ “eligibility criteria of the Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine” means the eligibilitycriteria for Board Certification orCertificate of Accreditation in respect ofBoard Certification in the respectivespecialty, recommended by the respectiveBoard of Study of the Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine, prescribed byregulations under the Post GraduateInstitute of Medicine Ordinance No. 1 of1980;”;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression ‘‘medical practitioner’’ of thefollowing definition:–

“ “Medical Service Minutes’’ means theMedical Service Minutes published in

5

10

15

20

25

30

Amendmentof section 74of theprincipalenactment.

No person topractice as amedical ordentalspecialistwithoutregistration.

35

Medical (Amendment)5

Gazeete No. 1883/17, dated October 11,2014, as may be amended from time totime;’’;

(3)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “pharmacist’’ of the followingdefinition:-

“ ‘‘Post Graduate Institute of Medicine’’ meansthe Post Graduate Institute of Medicineestablished by the Post Graduate Instituteof Medicine Ordinance No. 1 of 1980, madeunder section 18 of the Universities Act,No. 16 of 1978 and published in GazetteExtraordinary No. 83/7 of April 10, 1980,as amended from time to time;’’.

6.Every medical practitioner or dentist who possessesany qualification eligible to be registered as a medical ordental specialist under section 39B, on the date ofcommencement of this Act and has been engaged in thepractice of respective specialty, prior to that date, shall berequired to obtain registration under section 39B, within aperiod of twelve months from the date of commencement ofthis Act.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

5

10

15

20

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Transitionalprovisionapplicable tomedical anddentalspecialistsengaged inthe practice.

6Medical (Amendment)