==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02PART IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV(A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

wxl 2069$20 – 2018 uehs ui 02 jeks nodod – 2018'05'02No. 2069/20 – WEDNESDAY, MAY 02, 2018

NOTIFICATION MADE AS PER SECTION 40 (1) OF PROCEDURAL RULES OFWESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

I, for the acknowledgement of public, hereby notify that the approval of Board of Ministers of Western Province has beengranted for the draft of statute described in the following schedule of this statute of Special provisions of Western provincialWaste mnagement, under the decision of Board of Ministers No. VI/94/09/-2017-02 (ii) and dated 04.10.2017 and it is scheduledto be proposed by me for the approval of Wstern provincial Council.

ISURA DEVAPRIYAChief Minister of Western Provinceand Minister of Local Government, Economic promotion,Power and Energy, Environmental Affairs,Water Supply and Drainageand tourist affairs.

Chief Minister's Office,Srawasthi Mandiraya,Colombo 07,26th, April 2018.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG004025 – 12 (2018/05)

2AIV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2018

Short title andeffective date

Disposing wasteis an offence.

Special Statute of Waste Management of Western Province.

This statute is regarding the waste management by Western Province Waste ManagementAuthority which is incorporated under the Waste management Statute of the Western ProvinceNo. 01 of 2007, to empower the strategies that are being implemented by Local GovernmentAuthorities, to facilitate the regulations to the correct and suitable disposal of waste that areon the streets and in houses that are to be collected by the Local Government Authorities, todetermine a price and a standard to the acceptance of waste except that are one the streetsand in houses that are to be collected by the Local Government Authorities, to determine thecharge for the waste management strategies that are being implemented in the WesternProvince by the Waste management Authority of the Western Province.

Be it enacted by the Western provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka as follows:

1. THIS Statute may be cited as Special Statute of Waste management of Western Provinceand will be effective from the date of approval by the Governor.

2.(1) It is the duty of a Local Government Authority to receive waste, to takeevery action to dispose the received waste and to facilitate precautionaryregulations by implementing the power granted by the relevant written law.

(2) The charges for receiving waste collected from streets, non-waste that arecollected from houses for disposal, for maintaining private waste managementprojects and regarding the garbage generated by commercial and businesspurposes must be conducted by Local Government Authority under the rulesdetermined by this statue.

3.(1)Anything to the contrary in any other written law or in this statute and it isan offence to transport waste from one place to another by hand, a bicycle, atricycle, a cart or an animal, keeping or disposing such waste on a street or a public place discregarding the waste management programme or without takingprecautionary actions stated in this statute or any written law operating by aLocal Government Authority and in case of an officer of a Local GovernmentAuthority, an officer of the Authority by the power granted by the Director ofWaste Management Authority of Western Province, a court officer or a policeofficer complained about a person as such, he shall be guilty of an offence andshall on conviction after summary trial before a magistrate, be liable to animprisonment for a term not less than three months not exceeding six or to a fineof not less than Rs. 25,000 not exceeding Rs. 50,000 or both.

(2)It is offence to transport and carry waste from one place to another by a motorvehicle or a boat. Keeping or disposing such waste on a street or a public placedisregarding the waste management programme or precautionary actions statedin this statute or any written law implemented by a Local Government authorityand in case of an officer of a Local Government Authority, an officer of theAuthority by the power granted by the Director of Waste Management authorityof Western Province, a court officer or a police officer complained as such aperson, he shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction aftersummarytrial before a Magistrate, be liable to an imprisonment for a term not less thanthree months not exceeding six months or to a fine not less thanRs. 25,000 not exceeding than Rs. 50,000 or both.

IV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02PART IV – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.20183A

Decidingstrategies by theAuthority

(3) In the event of a particular person being found subsequnetly guilty under thissection, every instrument that were being used to do the offence, vehicles andtools will be confiscated by an order of the magistrete other than from a particularpunishment for that offence.

Provided that, the owner of the intruments, vehicles and the tools used for theoffence being a third party, if the owner is able to prove to the content of thecourt that he had taken every precautionary to prevent the instruments, vehiclesand tools from using them for the offence or that they are being used without hisconsent, then it should not be ordered to be confiscated.

(4) The regulations made under this sentence should not be applied for any personthat disposes waste by a license issued by the Director of the Waste managementAuthority of the Western Province, by an officer named by him, a LocalGovernment Authority or a person that disposes waste on behalf of a LocalGovernment Authority.

(5) The fine charged under this sentence must be debited accordingly to the fund ofWaste Management Authority or relevant Local Government Authority.

4.(1) Anything to the contrary in any other written law, it is the duty of the WasteManagement Authority to implement the waste management strategies throughLocal Government Authorities and provide facilities to them that are being decidedby the Authority.

(2) The Waste Management Authority of Western Province can charge a fee forimplementing waste management strategies with in Western Province, for thecost of provinding the reauired facilities for Local Government Authorities, andfor maintaining a cleaner enviornment in particular places with in the administrativelimits of each Local Government Authority, according to the criterion and themeasurements made under the rules of this statute and the charged money shouldbe collected to the fund of the Authority under the objectives of this sentences.

5.(1) The Minister can make rules to the objectives of this statute coming in to action,to implement the powers, to implement every fact that is stated in the statute.

(2) Every rule made by the Minister must be published in the gazette and shouldcome into effect from the date of published or from a future date stated in thegazette.

(3) The rules made by the Minister must be delivered for the approval of ProvincialCouncil immediately after being published in the gazette. The Provincial Councilmust approve those rules and published the approval by a gazette.

If they are not being approved, it must also be announced by a gazette and it must beconsidered that the actions taken under those rules have effect without prejudice.

6. In this statue, unless the context otherwise requires,

''Minister" means the Minister in charge of Local Government of Wastern Province;

Power ofmaking rules

Interpretation

4AIV^w&^w&^w&^w&^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'05'02PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.05.2018

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof aninconsistency

"Authorized Officer" means any officer who is vested on power by the Director ofwaste Management Authority of Western Province or an officer who is beingauthorized with power by an executive chief of a Local Government Authority;

''Local Government Authority" means a Pradeshiya Sabha, an Urban Council, aMunicipal Council, or any authority that act on behalf of it;

"Police Officer" means Sub Inspector of Police or an officer in a higher Designation;

''A Vehicle"in the meaning of Motor Traffic act;

"Waste" means unimportant things such as recrement, oversized recrement, ashes,swamps, mud, oil, human and animal shit, acidic and basics, animal carcasses andurban waste that are harmful to the existence and the health of human beings;

"A Street" is a path, a public road, a private road that two or more parties have theright to access, a drain related to any way or a road, a railway, a tunnel, a stream, a lakeor a river.

"A Boat" is a mechanical or a non-mechanical instrument which can be used on waterto be used for rowing on water.

7. In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhal and Tamil statements of thisstatute, the Sinhala statement shall prevail.

05 - 468

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.