==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20151A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1898$31 - 2015 ckjdß 21 jeks nodod - 2015'01'21No. 1898/31 - WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1APG 2336 (01/2015)This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, No. 15 OF 1995

Publication under Section 4(2)

BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard - SLFRS 9 : Financial Instruments, publishedherewith for the purpose of Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall beeffective for financial statements covering period commending on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Eighteenearlier application is permitted.

By Order of the Council,

ARUNA ALWIS, Secretary.

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,No. 30A,Malalasekera Mawatha,Colombo 07,21st January, 2015.

N. B.– Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette will be published separately.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20152A

Sri Lanka Accounting Standard– SLFRS 9

Financial Instruments

CONTENTS

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARD – SLFRS 9FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

CHAPTERS

1OBJECTIVE 1.1

2SCOPE 2.1

3RECOGNITION AND DERECOGNITION 3.1.1

4CLASSIFICATION 4.1.1

5MEASUREMENT 5.1.1

6HEDGE ACCOUNTING 6.1.1

7EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION 7.1.1

APPENDICES

ADefined terms

BApplication guidance

CAmendments to other Standards

Financial Reporting Standard – SLFRS 9Financial Instruments

Chapter 1 Objective

1.1The objective of this Standard is to establish principles for the financial reporting of financial assets and financialliabilities that will present relevant and useful information to users of financial statements for their assessment ofthe amounts, timing and uncertainty of an entity’s future cash flows.

Chapter 2 Scope

2.1 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:

(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance with SLFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements or LKAS 28 Investments inAssociates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10, LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permitan entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture in accordance with some or all ofthe requirements of this Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to derivatives on an interest in asubsidiary, associate or joint venture unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument of theentity in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20153A

(b) rights and obligations under leases to which LKAS 17 Leases applies.However:

(i) lease receivables recognised by a lessor are subject to the derecognition and impairment requirementsof this Standard;

(ii) finance lease payables recognised by a lessee are subject to the derecognition requirements of thisStandard; and

(iii) derivatives that are embedded in leases are subject to the embedded derivatives requirements of thisStandard.

(c) employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, to which LKAS 19 Employee Benefits applies.

(d) financial instruments issued by the entity that meet the definition of an equity instrument in LKAS 32(including options and warrants) or that are required to be classified as an equity instrument in accordancewith paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D of LKAS 32. However, the holder of such equityinstruments shall apply this Standard to those instruments, unless they meet the exception in (a).

(e) rights and obligations arising under (i) an insurance contract as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts,other than an issuer’s rights and obligations arising under an insurance contract that meets the definition ofa financial guarantee contract, or (ii) a contract that is within the scope of SLFRS 4 because it contains adiscretionary participation feature. However, this Standard applies to a derivative that is embedded in a contractwithin the scope of SLFRS 4 if the derivative is not itself a contract within the scope of SLFRS 4. Moreover, ifan issuer of financial guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts asinsurance contracts and has used accounting that is applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect toapply either this Standard or SLFRS 4 to such financial guarantee contracts (see paragraphs B2.5–B2.6). Theissuer may make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.

(f) any forward contract between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree that will resultin a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3 Business Combinations at a future acquisition date.The term of the forward contract should not exceed a reasonable period normally necessary to obtain anyrequired approvals and to complete the transaction.

(g) loan commitments other than those loan commitments described in paragraph 2.3. However, an issuer of loancommitments shall apply the impairment requirements of this Standard to loan commitments that are nototherwise within the scope of this Standard. Also, all loan commitments are subject to the derecognitionrequirements of this Standard.

(h) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions to which SLFRS 2Share-based Payment applies, except for contracts within the scope of paragraphs 2.4–2.7 of this Standard towhich this Standard applies.

(i) rights to payments to reimburse the entity for expenditure that it is required to make to settle a liability thatit recognises as a provision in accordance with LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and ContingentAssets, or for which, in an earlier period, it recognised a provision in accordance with LKAS 37.

(j) rights and obligations within the scope of SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that are financialinstruments, except for those that SLFRS 15 specifies are accounted for in accordance with this Standard.

2.2 The impairment requirements of this Standard shall be applied to those rights that SLFRS 15 specifies areaccounted for in accordance with this Standard for the purposes of recognising impairment gains or losses.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20154A

2.3 The following loan commitments are within the scope of this Standard:

(a) loan commitments that the entity designates as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (seeparagraph 4.2.2). An entity that has a past practice of selling the assets resulting from its loan commitmentsshortly after origination shall apply this Standard to all its loan commitments in the same class.

(b) loan commitments that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument.These loan commitments are derivatives. A loan commitment is not regarded as settled net merely because theloan is paid out in instalments (for example, a mortgage construction loan that is paid out in instalments in linewith the progress of construction).

(c) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate (see paragraph 4.2.1(d)).

2.4 This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cashor another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financialinstruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of thereceipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usagerequirements. However, this Standard shall be applied to those contracts that an entity designates as measured atfair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 2.5.

2.5 A contract to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or byexchanging financial instruments, as if the contract was a financial instrument, may be irrevocably designated asmeasured at fair value through profit or loss even if it was entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery ofa non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. This designationis available only at inception of the contract and only if it eliminates or significantly reduces a recognitioninconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from not recognisingthat contract because it is excluded from the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.4).

2.6 There are various ways in which a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item can be settled net in cash or anotherfinancial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments. These include:

(a) when the terms of the contract permit either party to settle it net in cash or another financial instrument or byexchanging financial instruments;

(b) when the ability to settle net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, isnot explicit in the terms of the contract, but the entity has a practice of settling similar contracts net in cash oranother financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments (whether with the counterparty, by enteringinto offsetting contracts or by selling the contract before its exercise or lapse);

(c) when, for similar contracts, the entity has a practice of taking delivery of the underlying and selling it within ashort period after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer’smargin; and

(d) when the non-financial item that is the subject of the contract is readily convertible to cash.

A contract to which (b) or (c) applies is not entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly, iswithin the scope of this Standard. Other contracts to which paragraph 2.4 applies are evaluated to determinewhether they were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly,whether they are within the scope of this Standard.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20155A

2.7 A written option to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument,or by exchanging financial instruments, in accordance with paragraph 2.6(a) or 2.6(d) is within the scope of thisStandard. Such a contract cannot be entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financialitem in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.

Chapter 3 Recognition and Derecognition

3.1 Initial Recognition

3.1.1 An entity shall recognise a financial asset or a financial liability in its statement of financial position when,and only when, the entity becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument (see paragraphsB3.1.1 and B3.1.2). When an entity first recognises a financial asset, it shall classify it in accordance withparagraphs 4.1.1–4.1.5 and measure it in accordance with paragraphs 5.1.1–5.1.3. When an entity firstrecognises a financial liability, it shall classify it in accordance with paragraphs 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and measureit in accordance with paragraph 5.1.1.

Regular way purchase or sale of financial assets

3.1.2 A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised and derecognised, as applicable, usingtrade date accounting or settlement date accounting (see paragraphs B3.1.3–B3.1.6).

3.2 Derecognition of Financial Assets

3.2.1 In consolidated financial statements, paragraphs 3.2.2–3.2.9, B3.1.1, B3.1.2 and B3.2.1–B3.2.17 are appliedat a consolidated level. Hence, an entity first consolidates all subsidiaries in accordance with SLFRS 10 andthen applies those paragraphs to the resulting group.

3.2.2 Before evaluating whether, and to what extent, derecognition is appropriate under paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9, an entity determines whether those paragraphs should be applied to a part of a financial asset (or apart of a group of similar financial assets) or a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets) inits entirety, as follows.

(a) Paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of similarfinancial assets) if, and only if, the part being considered for derecognition meets one of the followingthree conditions.

(i) The part comprises only specifically identified cash flows from a financial asset (or a group ofsimilar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into an interest rate strip wherebythe counterparty obtains the right to the interest cash flows, but not the principal cash flowsfrom a debt instrument, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to the interest cash flows.

(ii) The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of the cash flows from a financialasset (or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into anarrangement whereby the counterparty obtains the rights to a 90 per cent share of all cashflows of a debt instrument, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent of those cash flows.If there is more than one counterparty, each counterparty is not required to have a proportionateshare of the cash flows provided that the transferring entity has a fully proportionate share.

(iii) The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of specifically identified cashflows from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when an entityenters into an arrangement whereby the counterparty obtains the rights to a 90 per cent shareof interest cash flows from a financial asset, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to 90 per centof those interest cash flows. If there is more than one counterparty, eachcounterparty is not

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20156A

required to have a proportionate share of the specifically identified cash flows provided that thetransferring entity has a fully proportionate share.

(b) In all other cases, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset in its entirety (or to thegroup of similar financial assets in their entirety). For example, when an entity transfers(i) therights to the first or the last 90 per cent of cash collections from a financial asset (or a group offinancial assets), or (ii) the rights to 90 per cent of the cash flows from a group of receivables, butprovides a guarantee to compensate the buyer for any credit losses up to 8 per cent of the principalamount of the receivables, paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset (or a group ofsimilar financial assets) in its entirety.

In paragraphs 3.2.3–3.2.12, the term ‘financial asset’ refers to either a part of a financial asset (or a part ofa group of similar financial assets) as identified in (a) above or, otherwise, a financial asset (or a group ofsimilar financial assets) in its entirety.

3.2.3 An entity shall derecognise a financial asset when, and only when:

(a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or

(b) it transfers the financial asset as set out in paragraphs 3.2.4 and 3.2.5 and the transfer qualifies forderecognition in accordance with paragraph 3.2.6.

(See paragraph 3.1.2 for regular way sales of financial assets.)

3.2.4 An entity transfers a financial asset if, and only if, it either:

(a) transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, or

(b) retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractualobligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients in an arrangement that meets the conditionsin paragraph 3.2.5.

3.2.5 When an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financial asset (the ‘originalasset’), but assumes a contractual obligation to pay those cash flows to one or more entities (the ‘eventualrecipients’), the entity treats the transaction as a transfer of a financial asset if, and only if, all of thefollowing three conditions are met.

(a) The entity has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects equivalentamounts from the original asset. Short-term advances by the entity with the right of full recovery ofthe amount lent plus accrued interest at market rates do not violate this condition.

(b) The entity is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the originalasset other than as security to the eventual recipients for the obligation to pay them cash flows.

(c) The entity has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipientswithout material delay. In addition, the entity is not entitled to reinvest such cash flows, except forinvestments in cash or cash equivalents (as defined in LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows) during theshort settlement period from the collection date to the date of required remittance to the eventualrecipients, and interest earned on such investments is passed to the eventual recipients.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20157A

3.2.6 When an entity transfers a financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.4), it shall evaluate the extent to which itretains the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In this case:

(a) if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, theentity shall derecognise the financial asset and recognise separately as assets or liabilities anyrights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.

(b) if the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, theentity shall continue to recognise the financial asset.

(c) if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of thefinancial asset, the entity shall determine whether it has retained control of the financial asset.Inthis case:

(i) if the entity has not retained control, it shall derecognize the financial asset and recogniseseparately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.

(ii) if the entity has retained control, it shall continue to recognise the financial asset to the extentof its continuing involvement in the financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.16).

3.2.7 The transfer of risks and rewards (see paragraph 3.2.6) is evaluated by comparing the entity’s exposure,before and after the transfer, with the variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of thetransferred asset. An entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financialasset if its exposure to the variability in the present value of the future net cash flows from the financialasset does not change significantly as a result of the transfer (eg because the entity has sold a financialasset subject to an agreement to buy it back at a fixed price or the sale price plus a lender’s return). An entityhas transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if its exposure tosuch variability is no longer significant in relation to the total variability in the present value of the futurenet cash flows associated with the financial asset (eg because the entity has sold a financial asset subjectonly to an option to buy it back at its fair value at the time of repurchase or has transferred a fullyproportionate share of the cash flows from a larger financial asset in an arrangement, such as a loan sub-participation, that meets the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5).

3.2.8 Often it will be obvious whether the entity has transferred or retained substantially all risks and rewards ofownership and there will be no need to perform any computations. In other cases, it will be necessary tocompute and compare the entity’s exposure to the variability in the present value of the future net cashflows before and after the transfer. The computation and comparison are made using as the discount ratean appropriate current market interest rate. All reasonably possible variability in net cash flows is considered,with greater weight being given to those outcomes that are more likely to occur.

3.2.9 Whether the entity has retained control (see paragraph 3.2.6(c)) of the transferred asset depends on thetransferee’s ability to sell the asset. If the transferee has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entiretyto an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to imposeadditional restrictions on the transfer, the entity has not retained control. In all other cases, the entity hasretained control.

Transfers that Qualify for Derecognition

3.2.10 If an entity transfers a financial asset in a transfer that qualifies for derecognition in its entirety andretains the right to service the financial asset for a fee, it shall recognise either a servicing asset or aservicing liability for that servicing contract. If the fee to be received is not expected to compensate theentity adequately for performing the servicing, a servicing liability for the servicing obligation shall berecognised at its fair value. If the fee to be received is expected to be more than adequate compensation for

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20158A

the servicing, a servicing asset shall be recognised for the servicing right at an amount determined onthe basis of an allocation of the carrying amount of the larger financial asset in accordance with paragraph3.2.13.

3.2.11 If, as a result of a transfer, a financial asset is derecognised in its entirety but the transfer results in theentity obtaining a new financial asset or assuming a new financial liability, or a servicing liability, theentity shall recognise the new financial asset, financial liability or servicing liability at fair value.

3.2.12 On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between:

(a) the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) and

(b) the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed)

shall be recognised in profit or loss.

3.2.13 If the transferred asset is part of a larger financial asset (eg when an entity transfers interest cash flowsthat are part of a debt instrument, see paragraph 3.2.2(a)) and the part transferred qualifies forderecognition in its entirety, the previous carrying amount of the larger financial asset shall be allocatedbetween the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised, on the basis of therelative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. For this purpose, a retained servicing assetshall be treated as a part that continues to be recognised.

The difference between:

(a) the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) allocated to the part derecognised and

(b) the consideration received for the part derecognised (including any new asset obtained less any newliability assumed)

shall be recognised in profit or loss.

3.2.14 When an entity allocates the previous carrying amount of a larger financial asset between the part thatcontinues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised, the fair value of the part that continues to berecognised needs to be measured. When the entity has a history of selling parts similar to the part thatcontinues to be recognised or other market transactions exist for such parts, recent prices of actualtransactions provide the best estimate of its fair value. When there are no price quotes or recent markettransactions to support the fair value of the part that continues to be recognised, the best estimate of thefair value is the difference between the fair value of the larger financial asset as a whole and the considerationreceived from the transferee for the part that is derecognised.

Transfers That do not Qualify for Derecognition

3.2.15 If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the entity has retained substantially all the risksand rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the entity shall continue to recognise the transferredasset in its entirety and shall recognise a financial liability for the consideration received. In subsequentperiods, the entity shall recognise any income on the transferred asset and any expense incurred on thefinancial liability.

Continuing Involvement in Transferred Assets

3.2.16 If an entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of atransferred asset, and retains control of the transferred asset, the entity continues to recognise the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20159A

transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. The extent of the entity’scontinuinginvolvement in the transferred asset is the extent to which it is exposed to changes in the value of thetransferred asset. For example:

(a) When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of guaranteeing the transferred asset,the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is the lower of (i) the amount of the asset and (ii)the maximum amount of the consideration received that the entity could be required to repay (‘theguarantee amount’).

(b) When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a written or purchased option (or both)on the transferred asset, the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is the amount of thetransferred asset that the entity may repurchase. However, in the case of a written put option on anasset that is measured at fair value, the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is limited tothe lower of the fair value of the transferred asset and the option exercise price (see paragraphB3.2.13).

(c) When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a cash-settled option or similar provisionon the transferred asset, the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is measured in the sameway as that which results from non-cash settled options as set out in (b) above.

3.2.17 When an entity continues to recognise an asset to the extent of its continuing involvement, the entity alsorecognises an associated liability. Despite the other measurement requirements in this Standard, thetransferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligationsthat the entity has retained. The associated liability is measured in such a way that the net carryingamount of the transferred asset and the associated liability is:

(a) the amortised cost of the rights and obligations retained by the entity, if the transferred asset ismeasured at amortised cost, or

(b) equal to the fair value of the rights and obligations retained by the entity when measured on a stand-alone basis, if the transferred asset is measured at fair value.

3.2.18 The entity shall continue to recognise any income arising on the transferred asset to the extent of itscontinuing involvement and shall recognise any expense incurred on the associated liability.

3.2.19 For the purpose of subsequent measurement, recognised changes in the fair value of the transferredasset and the associated liability are accounted for consistently with each other in accordance withparagraph 5.7.1, and shall not be offset.

3.2.20 If an entity’s continuing involvement is in only a part of a financial asset (eg when an entity retains anoption to repurchase part of a transferred asset, or retains a residual interest that does not result in theretention of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the entity retains control), the entityallocates the previous carrying amount of the financial asset between the part it continues to recogniseunder continuing involvement, and the part it no longer recognises on the basis of the relative fair valuesof those parts on the date of the transfer. For this purpose, the requirements of paragraph 3.2.14 apply.The difference between:

(a) the carrying amount (measured at the date of derecognition) allocated to the part that is no longerrecognised and

(b) the consideration received for the part no longer recognised

shall be recognised in profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201510A

3.2.21 If the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the option in this Standard to designate a financialliability as at fair value through profit or loss is not applicable to the associated liability.

All Transfers

3.2.22 If a transferred asset continues to be recognised, the asset and the associated liability shall not be offset.Similarly, the entity shall not offset any income arising from the transferred asset with any expenseincurred on the associated liability (see paragraph 42 of LKAS 32).

3.2.23 If a transferor provides non-cash collateral (such as debt or equity instruments) to the transferee, theaccounting for the collateral by the transferor and the transferee depends on whether the transferee hasthe right to sell or repledge the collateral and on whether the transferor has defaulted. The transferorand transferee shall account for the collateral as follows:

(a) If the transferee has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge the collateral, then thetransferor shall reclassify that asset in its statement of financial position (eg as a loaned asset,pledged equity instruments or repurchase receivable) separately from other assets.

(b) If the transferee sells collateral pledged to it, it shall recognise the proceeds from the sale and aliability measured at fair value for its obligation to return the collateral.

(c) If the transferor defaults under the terms of the contract and is no longer entitled to redeem thecollateral, it shall derecognise the collateral, and the transferee shall recognise the collateral asits asset initially measured at fair value or, if it has already sold the collateral, derecognise itsobligation to return the collateral.

(d) Except as provided in (c), the transferor shall continue to carry the collateral as its asset, and thetransferee shall not recognise the collateral as an asset.

3.3 Derecognition of Financial Liabilities

3.3.1 An entity shall remove a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) from its statement of financialposition when, and only when, it is extinguished—ie when the obligation specified in the contract isdischarged or cancelled or expires.

3.3.2 An exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt instruments with substantially differentterms shall be accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognitionof a new financial liability. Similarly, a substantial modification of the terms of an existing financialliability or a part of it (whether or not attributable to the financial difficulty of the debtor) shall beaccounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financialliability.

3.3.3 The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial liability)extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assetstransferred or liabilities assumed, shall be recognised in profit or loss.

3.3.4 If an entity repurchases a part of a financial liability, the entity shall allocate the previous carrying amountof the financial liability between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognisedbased on the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the repurchase. The difference between (a)the carrying amount allocated to the part derecognised and (b) the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilitie assumed, for the part derecognised shall be recognised in profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201511A

Chapter 4 Classification

4.1 Classification of Financial aAssets

4.1.1 Unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies, an entity shall classify financial assets as subsequently measured atamortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on thebasis of both:

(a) the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets and

(b) the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.

4.1.2 A financial asset shall be measured at amortised cost if both of the following conditions are met:

(a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets inorder to collect contractual cash flows and

(b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solelypayments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

Paragraphs B4.1.1–B4.1.26 provide guidance on how to apply these conditions.

4.1.2A A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if both of thefollowing conditions are met:

(a) the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collectingcontractual cash flows and selling financial assets and

(b) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solelypayments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

Paragraphs B4.1.1–B4.1.26 provide guidance on how to apply these conditions.

4.1.3 For the purpose of applying paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b):

(a) principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition. Paragraph B4.1.7B providesadditional guidance on the meaning of principal.

(b) interest consists of consideration for the time value of money, for the credit risk associated with theprincipal amount outstanding during a particular period of time and for other basic lending risksand costs, as well as a profit margin. Paragraphs B4.1.7A and B4.1.9A–B4.1.9E provide additionalguidance on the meaning of interest, including the meaning of the time value of money.

4.1.4 A financial asset shall be measured at fair value through profit or loss unless it is measured at amortisedcost in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2 or at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordancewith paragraph 4.1.2A. However an entity may make an irrevocable election at initial recognition forparticular investments in equity instruments that would otherwise be measured at fair value throughprofit or loss to present subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive income (see paragraphs5.7.5–5.7.6).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201512A

Option to Designate a Financial Asset at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

4.1.5 Despite paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.4, an entity may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financialasset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces ameasurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting mismatch’) thatwould otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on themon different bases (see paragraphs B4.1.29–B4.1.32).

4.2 Classification of financial liabilities

4.2.1 An entity shall classify all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortised cost, except for:

(a) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives thatare liabilities, shall be subsequently measured at fair value.

(b) financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognitionor when the continuing involvement approach applies. Paragraphs 3.2.15 and 3.2.17 apply to themeasurement of such financial liabilities.

(c) financial guarantee contracts. After initial recognition, an issuer of such a contract shall (unlessparagraph 4.2.1(a) or (b) applies)subsequently measure it at the higher of:

(i) the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with Section 5.5 and

(ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 5.1.1) less, when appropriate, the cumulativeamount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15.

(d) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate. An issuer of such a commitmentshall (unless paragraph 4.2.1(a) applies) subsequently measure it at the higher of:

(i) the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with Section 5.5 and

(ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 5.1.1) less, when appropriate, the cumulativeamount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15.

(e) contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination to which SLFRS 3applies. Such contingent consideration shall subsequently be measured at fair value with changesrecognised in profit or loss.

Option to Designate a Financial Liability at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

4.2.2 An entity may, at initial recognition, irrevocably designate a financial liability as measured at fair valuethrough profit or loss when permitted by paragraph 4.3.5, or when doing so results in more relevantinformation, because either:

(a) it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimesreferred to as ‘an accounting mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from measuring assets orliabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases (see paragraphs B4.1.29–B4.1.32); or

(b) a group of financial liabilities or financial assets and financial liabilities is managed and itsperformance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk managementor investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis to theentity’s key management personnel (as defined in LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures), for example,the entity’s board of directors and chief executive officer (see paragraphs B4.1.33–B4.1.36).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201513A

4.3 Embedded Derivatives

4.3.1 An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid contract that also includes a non-derivative host—with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar to a stand-alone derivative. An embedded derivative causes some or all of the cash flows that otherwise would berequired by the contract to be modified according to a specified interest rate, financial instrument price,commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, or othervariable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to thecontract. A derivative that is attached to a financial instrument but is contractually transferableindependently of that instrument, or has a different counterparty, is not an embedded derivative, but aseparate financial instrument.

Hybrid Contracts with Financial Asset Hosts

4.3.2 If a hybrid contract contains a host that is an asset within the scope of this Standard, an entity shall applythe requirements in paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.5 to the entire hybrid contract.

Other Hybrid Contracts

4.3.3 If a hybrid contract contains a host that is not an asset within the scope of this Standard, an embeddedderivative shall be separated from the host and accounted for as a derivative under this Standard if, andonly if:

(a) the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to theeconomic characteristics and risks of the host (see paragraphs B4.3.5 and B4.3.8);

(b) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition ofa derivative; and

(c) the hybrid contract is not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit orloss (ie a derivative that is embedded in a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss is notseparated).

4.3.4 If an embedded derivative is separated, the host contract shall be accounted for in accordance with theappropriate Standards. This Standard does not address whether an embedded derivative shall be presentedseparately in the statement of financial position.

4.3.5 Despite paragraphs 4.3.3 and 4.3.4, if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the hostis not an asset within the scope of this Standard, an entity may designate the entire hybrid contract as atfair value through profit or loss unless:

(a) the embedded derivative(s) do(es) not significantly modify the cash flows that otherwise would berequired by the contract; or

(b) it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar hybrid instrument is first considered thatseparation of the embedded derivative(s) is prohibited, such as a prepayment option embedded in aloan that permits the holder to prepay the loan for approximately its amortised cost.

4.3.6 If an entity is required by this Standard to separate an embedded derivative from its host, but is unable tomeasure the embed dedderivative separately either at acquisition or at the end of a subsequent financialreporting period, it shall designate the entire hybrid contract as at fair value through profit or loss.

4.3.7 If an entity is unable to measure reliably the fair value of an embedded derivative on the basis of its termsand conditions, the fair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201514A

hybrid contract and the fair value of the host. If the entity is unable to measure the fair value of theembedded derivative using this method, paragraph 4.3.6 applies and the hybrid contract is designated asat fair value through profit or loss.

4.4 Reclassification

4.4.1 When, and only when, an entity changes its business model for managing financial assets it shallreclassify all affected financial assets in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.4. See paragraphs 5.6.1–5.6.7, B4.4.1–B4.4.3 and B5.6.1–B5.6.2 for additional guidance on reclassifying financial assets.

4.4.2 An entity shall not reclassify any financial liability.

4.4.3 The following changes in circumstances are not reclassifications for the purposes of paragraphs 4.4.1–4.4.2:

(a) an item that was previously a designated and effective hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or netinvestment hedge no longer qualifies as such;

(b) an item becomes a designated and effective hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or net investmenthedge; and

(c) changes in measurement in accordance with Section 6.7.

Chapter 5 Measurement

5.1 Initial Measurement

5.1.1 Except for trade receivables within the scope of paragraph 5.1.3, at initial recognition, an entity shallmeasure a financial asset or financial liability at its fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financialasset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directlyattributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial liability.

5.1.1 A However, if the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability at initial recognition differs fromthe transaction price, an entity shall apply paragraph B5.1.2A.

5.1.2 When an entity uses settlement date accounting for an asset that is subsequently measured at amortisedcost, the asset is recognised initially at its fair value on the trade date (see paragraphs B3.1.3–B3.1.6).

5.1.3 Despite the requirement in paragraph 5.1.1, at initial recognition, an entity shall measure trade receivablesthat do not have a significant financing component (determined in accordance with SLFRS 15) at theirtransaction price (as defined in SLFRS 15).

5.2 Subsequent Measurement of Financial Assets

5.2.1 After initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial asset in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.1–4.1.5 at:

(a) amortised cost;

(b) fair value through other comprehensive income; or

(c) fair value through profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201515A

5.2.2 An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 to financial assets that are measuredat amortised cost in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2 and to financial assets that are measured at fairvalue through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A.

5.2.3 An entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 (and, if applicable,paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest raterisk to a financial asset that is designated as a hedged item.1

5.3 Subsequent Measurement of Financial Liabilities

5.3.1 After initial recognition, an entity shall measure a financial liability in accordance with paragraphs4.2.1–4.2.2.

5.3.2 An entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 (and, if applicable,paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest raterisk) to a financial liability that is designated as a hedged item.

5.4 Amortised cost measurement

Financial Assets

Effective Interest Method

5.4.1 Interest revenue shall be calculated by using the effective interest method (see Appendix A and paragraphsB5.4.1–B5.4.7). This shall be calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carryingamount of a financial asset except for:

(a) purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets. For those financial assets, the entityshall apply the credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial assetfrom initial recognition.

(b) financial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets butsubsequently have become credit-impaired financial assets. For those financial assets, the entityshall apply the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset in subsequentreporting periods.

5.4.2 An entity that, in a reporting period, calculates interest revenue by applying the effective interest methodto the amortised cost of a financial asset in accordance with paragraph 5.4.1(b), shall, in subsequentreporting periods, calculate the interest revenue by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carryingamount if the credit risk on the financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit-impaired and the improvement can be related objectively to an event occurring after the requirements inparagraph 5.4.1(b) were applied (such as an improvement in the borrower’s credit rating).

Modification of Contractual Cash Flows

5.4.3 When the contractual cash flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or otherwise modified and therenegotiation or modification does not result in the derecognition of that financial asset in accordance withthis Standard, an entity shall recalculate the gross carrying amount of the financial asset and shall recognisea modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The gross carrying amount of the financial asset shall be

1 In accordance with paragraph 7.2.21, an entity may choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge accountingrequirements in LKAS 39 instead of the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Standard. If an entity has made this election, the referencesin this Standard to particular hedge accounting requirements in Chapter 6 are not relevant, Instead the entity applies the relevant hedgeaccounting requriements in LKAS 39.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201516A

recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows that are discountedat the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchasedor originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate calculatedin accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. Any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the modifiedfinancial asset and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified financial asset.

Write-off

5.4.4 An entity shall directly reduce the gross carrying amount of a financial asset when the entity has noreasonable expectations of recovering a financial asset in its entirety or a portion thereof. A write-offconstitutes a derecognition event (see paragraph B3.2.16(r)).

5.5 Impairment

Recognition of Expected Credit Losses

General Approach

5.5.1 An entity shall recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses on a financial asset that is measuredin accordance with paragraphs 4.1.2 or 4.1.2A, a lease receivable, a contract asset or a loan commitmentand a financial guarantee contract to which the impairment requirements apply in accordance withparagraphs 2.1(g), 4.2.1(c) or 4.2.1(d).

5.5.2 An entity shall apply the impairment requirements for the recognition and measurement of a loss allowancefor financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance withparagraph 4.1.2A. However, the loss allowance shall be recognised in other comprehensive income andshall not reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset in the statement of financial position.

5.5.3 Subject to paragraphs 5.5.13–5.5.16, at each reporting date, an entity shall measurethe loss allowancefor a financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses if the credit risk onthat financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition.

5.5.4 The objective of the impairment requirements is to recognise lifetime expected credit losses for all financialinstruments for which there have been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition —whether assessed on an individual or collective basis — considering all reasonable and supportableinformation, including that which is forward-looking.

5.5.5 Subject to paragraphs 5.5.13–5.5.16, if, at the reporting date, the credit risk on a financial instrumenthas not increased significantly since initial recognition, an entity shall measure the loss allowance forthat financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.

5.5.6 For loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts, the date that the entity becomes a party to theirrevocable commitment shall be considered to be the date of initial recognition for the purposes of applyingthe impairment requirements.

5.5.7 If an entity has measured the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to lifetimeexpected credit losses in the previous reporting period, but determines at the current reporting date thatparagraph 5.5.3 is no longer met, the entity shall measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses at the current reporting date.

5.5.8 An entity shall recognise in profit or loss, as an impairment gain or loss, the amount of expected creditlosses (or reversal) that is required to adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the amount that isrequired to be recognised in accordance with this Standard.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201517A

Determining Significant Increases in Credit Risk

5.5.9 At each reporting date, an entity shall assess whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increasedsignificantly since initial recognition. When making the assessment, an entity shall use the change in therisk of a default occurring over the expected life of the financial instrument instead of the change in theamount of expected credit losses. To make that assessment, an entity shall compare the risk of a defaultoccurring on the financial instrument as at the reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on thefinancial instrument as at the date of initial recognition and consider reasonable and supportable information,that is available without undue cost or effort, that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk sinceinitial recognition.

5.5.10 An entity may assume that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly sinceinitial recognition if the financial instrument is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date (seeparagraphs B5.5.22 B5.5.24).

5.5.11 If reasonable and supportable forward-looking information is available without undue cost or effort, anentity cannot rely solely on past due information when determining whether credit risk has increasedsignificantly since initial recognition. However, when information that is more forward-looking than pastdue status (either on an individual or a collective basis) is not available without undue cost or effort, anentity may use past due information to determine whether there have been significant increases in creditrisk since initial recognition. Regardless of the way in which an entity assesses significant increases incredit risk, there is a rebuttable presumption that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantlysince initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. An entity can rebutthis presumption if the entity has reasonable and supportable information that is available without unduecost or effort, that demonstrates that the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognitioneven though the contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. When an entity determines thatthere have been significant increases in credit risk before contractual payments are more than 30 days pastdue, the rebuttable presumption does not apply.

Modified Financial Assets

5.5.12 If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been renegotiated or modified and the financial assetwas not derecognised, an entity shall assess whether there has been a significant increase in the credit riskof the financial instrument in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 by comparing:

(a) the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date (based on the modified contractual terms); and

(b) the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition (based on the original, unmodified contractualterms).

Purchased or Originated Credit-impaired Financial Assets

5.5.13 Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, at the reporting date, an entity shall only recognise the cumulativechanges in lifetime expected credit losses since initial recognition as a loss allowance for purchased ororiginated credit-impaired financial assets.

5.5.14 At each reporting date, an entity shall recognise in profit or loss the amount of the change in lifetimeexpected credit losses as an impairment gain or loss. An entity shall recognise favourable changes inlifetime expected credit losses as an impairment gain, even if the lifetime expected credit losses are less thanthe amount of expected credit losses that were included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201518A

Simplified Approach for Trade Receivables, Contractassets and Lease Receivables

5.5.15 Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, an entity shall always measure the loss allowance at an amount equalto lifetime expected credit losses for:

(a) trade receivables or contract assets that result from transactions that are within the scope ofSLFRS 15, and that:

(i) do not contain a significant financing component (or when the entity applies the practicalexpedient for contracts that are one year or less) in accordance with SLFRS 15; or

(ii) contain a significant financing component in accordance withSLFRS 15, if the entity choosesas its accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expectedcredit losses. That accounting policy shall be applied to all such trade receivables or contractassets but may be applied separately to trade receivables and contract assets.

(b) lease receivables that result from transactions that are within the scope of LKAS 17, if the entitychooses as its accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetimeexpected credit losses. That accounting policy shall be applied to all lease receivables but may beapplied separately to finance and operating lease receivables.

5.5.16 An entity may select its accounting policy for trade receivables, lease receivables and contract assetsindependently of each other.

Measurement of Expected Credit Losses

5.5.17 An entity shall measure expected credit losses of a financial instrument in a way that reflects:

(a) An unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possibleoutcomes;

(b) The time value of money; and

(c) Reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reportingdate about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.

5.5.18 When measuring expected credit losses, an entity need not necessarily identify every possible scenario.However, it shall consider the risk or probability that a credit loss occurs by reflecting the possibility thata credit loss occurs and the possibility that no credit loss occurs, even if the possibility of a credit lossoccurring is very low.

5.5.19 The maximum period to consider when measuring expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period(including extension options) over which the entity is exposed to credit risk and not a longer period, evenif that longer period is consistent with business practice.

5.5.20 However, some financial instruments include both a loan and an undrawn commitment component and theentity’s contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn commitment does not limit theentity’s exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For such financial instruments, and onlythose financial instruments, the entity shall measure expected credit losses over the period that the entityis exposed to credit risk and expected credit losses would not be mitigated by credit risk managementactions, even if that period extends beyond the maximum contractual period.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201519A

5.6 Reclassification of Financial Assets

5.6.1 If an entity reclassifies financial assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1, it shall apply thereclassification prospectively from the reclassification date. The entity shall not restate any previouslyrecognised gains, losses (including impairment gains or losses) or interest. Paragraphs 5.6.2–5.6.7 setout the requirements for reclassifications.

5.6.2 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fairvalue through profit or loss measurement category, its fair value is measured at the reclassification date.Any gain or loss arising from a difference between the previous amortised cost of the financial asset andfair value is recognised in profit or loss.

5.6.3 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement categoryand into the amortised cost measurement category, its fair value at the reclassification date becomes itsnew gross carrying amount. (See paragraph B5.6.2 for guidance on determining an effective interestrate and a loss allowance at the reclassification date.)

5.6.4 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fairvalue through other comprehensive income measurement category, its fair value is measured at thereclassification date. Any gain or loss arising from a difference between the previous amortised cost ofthe financial asset and fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income. The effective interestrate and the measurement of expected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification.(See paragraph B5.6.1.)

5.6.5 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through other comprehensive incomemeasurement category and into the amortised cost measurement category, the financial asset isreclassified at its fair value at the reclassification date. However, the cumulative gain or loss previouslyrecognised in other comprehensive income is removed from equity and adjusted against the fair value ofthe financial asset at the reclassification date. As a result, the financial asset is measured at thereclassification date as if it had always been measured at amortised cost. This adjustment affects othercomprehensive income but does not affect profit or loss and therefore is not a reclassification adjustment(see LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements). The effective interest rate and the measurement ofexpected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification. (See paragraph B5.6.1.)

5.6.6 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement categoryand into the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category, the financial assetcontinues to be measured at fair value. (See paragraph B5.6.2 for guidance on determining an effectiveinterest rate and a loss allowance at the reclassification date.)

5.6.7 If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through other comprehensive incomemeasurement category and into the fair value through profit or loss measurement category, the financialasset continues to be measured at fair value. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in othercomprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (seeLKAS 1) at the reclassification date.

5.7 Gains and Losses

5.7.1 A gain or loss on a financial asset or financial liability that is measured at fair value shall be recognisedin profit or loss unless:

(a) it is part of a hedging relationship (see paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable, paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201520A

(b) it is an investment in an equity instrument and the entity has elected to present gains and losses onthat investment in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5;

(c) it is a financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss and the entity is requiredto present the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income inaccordance with paragraph 5.7.7; or

(d) it is a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordancewith paragraph 4.1.2A and the entity is required to recognise some changes in fair value in othercomprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.10.

5.7.1 A Dividends are recognised in profit or loss only when:

(a) the entity’s right to receive payment of the dividend is established;

(b) it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the entity; and

(c) the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.

5.7.2 A gain or loss on a financial asset that is measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedgingrelationship (see paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable, paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fairvalue hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk) shall be recognised in profit or losswhen the financial asset is derecognised, reclassified in accordance with paragraph 5.6.2, through theamortisation process or in order to recognise impairment gains or losses. An entity shall apply paragraphs5.6.2 and 5.6.4 if it reclassifies financial assets out of the amortised cost measurement category. A gainor loss on a financial liability that is measured at amortised cost and is not part of a hedging relationship(see paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable, paragraphs 89–94 of LKAS 39 for the fair value hedgeaccounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk) shall be recognised in profit or loss when thefinancial liability is derecognised and through the amortisation process. (See paragraph B5.7.2 forguidance on foreign exchange gains or losses.)

5.7.3 A gain or loss on financial assets or financial liabilities that are hedged items in a hedging relationshipshall be recognised in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.8–6.5.14 and, if applicable,paragraphs 89–94 ofLKAS 39 for the fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk.

5.7.4 If an entity recognises financial assets using settlement date accounting(see paragraphs 3.1.2, B3.1.3and B3.1.6), any change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the period between the tradedate and the settlement date is not recognised for assets measured at amortised cost. For assets measuredat fair value, however, the change in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss or in other comprehensiveincome, as appropriate in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1. The trade date shall be considered the date ofinitial recognition for the purposes of applying the impairment requirements.

Investments in Equity Instruments

5.7.5 At initial recognition, an entity may make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensiveincome subsequent changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument within the scope ofthis Standard that is neither held for trading nor contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer ina business combination to which SLFRS 3 applies. (See paragraph B5.7.3 for guidance on foreignexchange gains or losses.)

5.7.6 If an entity makes the election in paragraph 5.7.5, it shall recognise in profit or loss dividends from thatinvestment in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1A.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201521A

Liabilities Designated as at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss

5.7.7 An entity shall present a gain or loss on a financial liability that is designated as at fair value throughprofit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 or paragraph 4.3.5 as follows:

(a) The amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in thecredit risk of that liability shall be presented in other comprehensive income (see paragraphsB5.7.13–B5.7.20), and

(b) the remaining amount of change in the fair value of the liability shall be presented in profit or lossunless the treatment of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk described in (a) wouldcreate or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss (in which case paragraph 5.7.8 applies).Paragraphs B5.7.5–B5.7.7 and B5.7.10–B5.7.12 provide guidance on determining whether anaccounting mismatch would be created or enlarged.

5.7.8 If the requirements in paragraph 5.7.7 would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss,an entity shall present all gains or losses on that liability (including the effects of changes in the creditrisk of that liability) in profit or loss.

5.7.9 Despite the requirements in paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8, an entity shall present in profit or loss all gains andlosses on loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts that are designated as at fair value throughprofit or loss.

Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income

5.7.10 A gain or loss on a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income inaccordance with paragraph 4.1.2A shall be recognised in other comprehensive income, except forimpairment gains or losses (see Section 5.5) and foreign exchange gains and losses (see paragraphsB5.7.2–B5.7.2A), until the financial asset is derecognised or reclassified. When the financial asset isderecognised the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income isreclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1). If the financialasset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category,the entity shall account for the cumulative gain or loss that was previously recognised in othercomprehensive income in accordance with paragraphs 5.6.5 and 5.6.7. Interest calculated using theeffective interest method is recognised in profit or loss.

5.7.11 As described in paragraph 5.7.10, if a financial asset is measured at fair value through other comprehensiveincome in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the amounts that are recognised in profit or loss are thesame as the amounts that would have been recognised in profit or loss if the financial asset had beenmeasured at amortised cost.

Chapter 6 Hedge Accounting

6.1 Objective and Scope of Hedge Accounting

6.1.1 The objective of hedge accounting is to represent, in the financial statements, the effect of an entity’s riskmanagement activities that use financial instruments to manage exposures arising from particular risks thatcould affect profit or loss (or other comprehensive income, in the case of investments in equity instrumentsfor which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordancewith paragraph 5.7.5). This approach aims to convey the context of hedging instruments for which hedgeaccounting is applied in order to allow insight into their purpose and effect.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201522A

6.1.2 An entity may choose to designate a hedging relationship between a hedging instrument and a hedgeditem in accordance with paragraphs 6.2.1–6.3.7 and B6.2.1–B6.3.25. For hedging relationships that meet thequalifying criteria, an entity shall account for the gain or loss on the hedging instrument and the hedgeditem in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.1–6.5.14 and B6.5.1–B6.5.28. When the hedged item is a group ofitems, an entity shall comply with the additional requirements in paragraphs 6.6.1–6.6.6 and B6.6.1–B6.6.16.

6.1.3 For a fair value hedge of the interest rate exposure of a portfolio of financial assets or financial liabilities(and only for such a hedge), an entity may apply the hedge accounting requirements in LKAS 39 insteadof those in this Standard. In that case, the entity must also apply the specific requirements for the fair valuehedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk and designate as the hedged item a portion thatis a currency amount (see paragraphs 81A, 89A and AG114–AG132 of LKAS 39).

6.2 Hedging Instruments

Qualifying Instruments

6.2.1 A derivative measured at fair value through profit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument,except for some written options (see paragraph B6.2.4).

6.2.2 A non-derivative financial asset or a non-derivative financial liability measured at fair value throughprofit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument unless it is a financial liability designated as atfair value through profit or loss for which the amount of its change in fair value that is attributable tochanges in the credit risk of that liability is presented in other comprehensive income in accordance withparagraph 5.7.7. For a hedge of foreign currency risk, the foreign currency risk component of a non-derivative financial asset or a non-derivative financial liability may be designated as a hedging instrumentprovided that it is not an investment in an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to presentchanges in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5.

6.2.3 For hedge accounting purposes, only contracts with a party external to the reporting entity (ie external tothe group or individual entity that is being reported on) can be designated as hedging instruments.

Designation of Hedging Instruments

6.2.4 A qualifying instrument must be designated in its entirety as a hedging instrument. The only exceptionspermitted are:

(a) separating the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and designating as the hedginginstrument only the change in intrinsic value of an option and not the change in its time value (seeparagraphs 6.5.15 and B6.5.29–B6.5.33);

(b) separating the forward element and the spot element of a forward contract and designating as thehedging instrument only the change in the value of the spot element of a forward contract and notthe forward element; similarly, the foreign currency basis spread may be separated and excluded fromthe designation of a financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraphs 6.5.16 andB6.5.34–B6.5.39); and

(c) a proportion of the entire hedging instrument, such as 50 per cent of the nominal amount, may bedesignated as the hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. However, a hedging instrument maynot be designated for a part of its change in fair value that results from only a portion of the timeperiod during which the hedging instrument remains outstanding.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201523A

6.2.5 An entity may view in combination, and jointly designate as the hedging instrument, any combination ofthe following (including those circumstances in which the risk or risks arising from some hedging instrumentsoffset those arising from others):

(a) derivatives or a proportion of them; and

(b) non-derivatives or a proportion of them.

6.2.6 However, a derivative instrument that combines a written option and a purchased option (for example, aninterest rate collar) does not qualify as a hedging instrument if it is, in effect, a net written option at the dateof designation (unless it qualifies in accordance with paragraph B6.2.4). Similarly, two or more instruments(or proportions of them) may be jointly designated as the hedging instrument only if, in combination, theyare not, in effect, a net written option at the date of designation (unless it qualifies in accordance withparagraph B6.2.4).

6.3 Hedged Items

Qualifying Items

6.3.1 A hedged item can be a recognised asset or liability, an unrecognised firm commitment, a forecasttransaction or a net investment in a foreign operation. The hedged item can be:

(a) a single item; or

(b) a group of items (subject to paragraphs 6.6.1–6.6.6 and B6.6.1–B6.6.16).

A hedged item can also be a component of such an item or group of items(see paragraphs 6.3.7 andB6.3.7–B6.3.25).

6.3.2 The hedged item must be reliably measurable.

6.3.3 If a hedged item is a forecast transaction (or a component thereof), that transaction must be highlyprobable.

6.3.4 An aggregated exposure that is a combination of an exposure that could qualify as a hedged item inaccordance with paragraph 6.3.1 and a derivative may be designated as a hedged item (see paragraphsB6.3.3–B6.3.4). This includes a forecast transaction of an aggregated exposure (ie uncommitted butanticipated future transactions that would give rise to an exposure and a derivative) if that aggregatedexposure is highly probable and, once it has occurred and is therefore no longer forecast, is eligible as ahedged item.

6.3.5 For hedge accounting purposes, only assets, liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecasttransactions with a party external to the reporting entity can be designated as hedged items. Hedgeaccounting can be applied to transactions between entities in the same group only in the individual orseparate financial statements of those entities and not in the consolidated financial statements of thegroup, except for the consolidated financial statements of an investment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10,where transactions between an investment entity and its subsidiaries measured at fair value throughprofit or loss will not be eliminated in the consolidated financial statements.

6.3.6 However, as an exception to paragraph 6.3.5, the foreign currency risk of an intragroup monetary item (forexample, a payable/receivable between two subsidiaries) may qualify as a hedged item in the consolidatedfinancial statements if it results in an exposure to foreign exchange rate gains or losses that are not fullyeliminated on consolidation in accordance with LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201524A

Rates. In accordance with LKAS 21, foreign exchange rate gains and losses on intragroup monetary itemsare not fully eliminated on consolidation when the intragroup monetary item is transacted between twogroup entities that have different functional currencies. In addition, the foreign currency risk of a highlyprobable forecast intragroup transaction may qualify as a hedged item in consolidated financial statementsprovided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entityentering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss.

Designation of Hedged Items

6.3.7 An entity may designate an item in its entirety or a component of an item as the hedged item in a hedgingrelationship. An entire item comprises all changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item. A componentcomprises less than the entire fair value change or cash flow variability of an item. In that case, an entitymay designate only the following types of components (including combinations) as hedged items:

(a) only changes in the cash flows or fair value of an item attributable to a specific risk or risks (riskcomponent), provided that, based on an assessment within the context of the particular marketstructure, the risk component is separately identifiable and reliably measurable (see paragraphsB6.3.8–B6.3.15). Risk components include a designation of only changes in the cash flows or the fairvalue of a hedged item above or below a specified price or other variable (a one-sided risk).

(b) one or more selected contractual cash flows.

(c) components of a nominal amount, ie a specified part of the amount of an item (see paragraphsB6.3.16–B6.3.20).

6.4 Qualifying Criteria for Hedge Accounting

6.4.1 A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting only if all of the following criteria are met:

(a) the hedging relationship consists only of eligible hedging instruments and eligible hedged items.

(b) at the inception of the hedging relationship there is formal designation and documentation of thehedging relationship and the entity’s risk management objective and strategy for undertaking thehedge. That documentation shall include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item,the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess whether the hedging relationshipmeets the hedge effectiveness requirements (including its analysis of the sources of hedgeineffectiveness and how it determines the hedge ratio).

(c) the hedging relationship meets all of the following hedge effectiveness requirements:

(i) there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument (seeparagraphs B6.4.4–B6.4.6);

(ii) the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economicrelationship (see paragraphs B6.4.7–B6.4.8); and

(iii) the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of thehedged item that the entity actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that theentity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. However, that designation shall notreflect an imbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument thatwould create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognised or not) that could resultin an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting (seeparagraphs B6.4.9–B6.4.11).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201525A

6.5 Accounting for Qualifying Hedging Relationships

6.5.1 An entity applies hedge accounting to hedging relationships that meet the qualifying criteria in paragraph6.4.1 (which include the entity’s decision to designate the hedging relationship).

6.5.2 There are three types of hedging relationships:

(a) fair value hedge: a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognised asset or liabilityor an unrecognised firm commitment, or a component of any such item, that is attributable to aparticular risk and could affect profit or loss.

(b) cash flow hedge: a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particularrisk associated with all, or a component of, a recognised asset or liability (such as all or somefuture interest payments on variable-rate debt) or a highly probable forecast transaction, and couldaffect profit or loss.

(c) hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation as defined in LKAS 21.

6.5.3 If the hedged item is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair valuein other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5, the hedged exposure referred to inparagraph 6.5.2(a) must be one that could affect other comprehensive income. In that case, and only in thatcase, the recognised hedge ineffectiveness is presented in other comprehensive income.

6.5.4 A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment may be accounted for as a fair value hedge or acash flow hedge.

6.5.5 If a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness requirement relating to the hedge ratio(see paragraph 6.4.1(c)(iii)) but the risk management objective for that designated hedging relationshipremains the same, an entity shall adjust the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship so that it meets thequalifying criteria again (this is referred to in this Standard as ‘rebalancing’—see paragraphs B6.5.7–B6.5.21).

6.5.6 An entity shall discontinue hedge accounting prospectively only when the hedging relationship (or a partof a hedging relationship) ceases to meet the qualifying criteria (after taking into account any rebalancingof the hedging relationship, if applicable). This includes instances when the hedging instrument expiresor is sold, terminated or exercised. For this purpose, the replacement or rollover of a hedging instrumentinto another hedging instrument is not an expiration or termination if such a replacement or rollover ispart of, and consistent with, the entity’s documented risk management objective. Additionally, for thispurpose there is not an expiration or termination of the hedging instrument if:

(a) as a consequence of laws or regulations or the introduction of laws or regulations, the parties to thehedging instrument agree that one or more clearing counterparties replace their originalcounterparty to become the new counterparty to each of the parties. For this purpose, a clearingcounterparty is a central counterparty (sometimes called a ‘clearing organisation’ or ‘clearingagency’) or an entity or entities, for example, a clearing member of a clearing organisation or aclient of a clearing member of a clearing organisation, that are acting as a counterparty in order toeffect clearing by a central counterparty. However, when the parties to the hedging instrumentreplace their original counterparties with different counterparties the requirement in thissubparagraph is met only if each of those parties effects clearing with the same central counterparty.

(b) other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are necessary to effectsuch a replacement of the counterparty. Such changes are limited to those that are consistent with

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201526A

the terms that would be expected if the hedging instrument were originally cleared with the clearingcounterparty. These changes include changes in the collateral requirements, rights to offsetreceivables and payables balances, and charges levied.

Discontinuing hedge accounting can either affect a hedging relationship in its entirety or only apart of it (in which case hedge accounting continues for the remainder of the hedging relationship).

6.5.7 An entity shall apply:

(a) paragraph 6.5.10 when it discontinues hedge accounting for a fair value hedge for which the hedgeditem is (or is a component of) a financial instrument measured at amortised cost; and

(b) paragraph 6.5.12 when it discontinues hedge accounting for cash flow hedges.

Fair Value Hedges

6.5.8 As long as a fair value hedge meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, the hedging relationshipshall be accounted for as follows:

(a) the gain or loss on the hedging instrument shall be recognised in profit or loss (or othercomprehensive income, if the hedging instrument hedges an equity instrument for which an entityhas elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance withparagraph 5.7.5).

(b) the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item shall adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item (ifapplicable) and be recognised in profit or loss. If the hedged item is a financial asset (or a componentthereof) that is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance withparagraph 4.1.2A, the hedging gain or loss on the hedged item shall be recognised in profit or loss.However, if the hedged item is an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to presentchanges in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5, thoseamounts shall remain in other comprehensive income. When a hedged item is an unrecognised firmcommitment (or a component thereof), the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged itemsubsequent to its designation is recognised as an asset or a liability with a corresponding gain orloss recognised in profit or loss.

6.5.9 When a hedged item in a fair value hedge is a firm commitment (or a component thereof) to acquire an assetor assume a liability, the initial carrying amount of the asset or the liability that results from the entitymeeting the firm commitment is adjusted to include the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedgeditem that was recognised in the statement of financial position.

6.5.10 Any adjustment arising from paragraph 6.5.8(b) shall be amortised to profit or loss if the hedged item is afinancial instrument (or a component thereof) measured at amortised cost. Amortisation may begin as soonas an adjustment exists and shall begin no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted forhedging gains and losses. The amortisation is based on a recalculated effective interest rate at the date thatamortisation begins. In the case of a financial asset (or a component thereof) that is a hedged item and thatis measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A,amortisation applies in the same manner but to the amount that represents the cumulative gain or losspreviously recognised in accordance with paragraph 6.5.8(b) instead of by adjusting the carrying amount.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201527A

Cash Flow Hedges

6.5.11 As long as a cash flow hedge meets the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.4.1, the hedging relationshipshall be accounted for as follows:

(a) the separate component of equity associated with the hedged item(cash flow hedge reserve) is adjustedto the lower of the following (in absolute amounts):

(i) the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from inception of the hedge; and

(ii) the cumulative change in fair value (present value) of the hedged item (ie the present value ofthe cumulative change in the hedged expected future cash flows) from inception of the hedge.

(b) the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge(ie the portion that is offset by the change in the cash flow hedge reserve calculated in accordancewith (a)) shall be recognised in other comprehensive income.

(c) any remaining gain or loss on the hedging instrument (or any gain or loss required to balance thechange in the cash flow hedge reserve calculated in accordance with (a)) is hedge ineffectivenessthat shall be recognised in profit or loss.

(d) the amount that has been accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance with (a) shall beaccounted for as follows:

(i) if a hedged forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financialasset or non-financial liability, or a hedged forecast transaction for a non-financial asset ora non-financial liability becomes a firm commitment for which fair value hedge accounting isapplied, the entity shall remove that amount from the cash flow hedge reserve and include itdirectly in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the asset or the liability. This is not areclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) and hence it does not affect other comprehensiveincome.

(ii) for cash flow hedges other than those covered by (i), that amount shall be reclassified from thecash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) in thesame period or periods during which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit orloss (for example, in the periods that interest income or interest expense is recognised orwhen a forecast sale occurs).

(iii) however, if that amount is a loss and an entity expects that all or a portion of that loss will notbe recovered in one or more future periods, it shall immediately reclassify the amount that isnot expected to be recovered into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1).

6.5.12 When an entity discontinues hedge accounting for a cash flow hedge (see paragraphs 6.5.6 and 6.5.7(b))it shall account for the amount that has been accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordancewith paragraph 6.5.11(a) as follows:

(a) if the hedged future cash flows are still expected to occur, that amount shall remain in the cash flowhedge reserve until the future cash flows occur or until paragraph 6.5.11(d)(iii) applies. When thefuture cash flows occur, paragraph 6.5.11(d) applies.

(b) if the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, that amount shall be immediatelyreclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (seeLKAS 1). A hedged future cash flow that is no longer highly probable to occur may still be expectedto occur.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201528A

Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation

6.5.13 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a hedge of a monetary item that is accountedfor as part of the net investment (see LKAS 21), shall be accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges:

(a) the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effectivehedge shall be recognised in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 6.5.11); and

(b) the ineffective portion shall be recognised in profit or loss.

6.5.14 The cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge thathas been accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve shall be reclassified from equity toprofit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) in accordance with paragraphs 48–49 ofLKAS 21 on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.

Accounting for the Time Value of Options

6.5.15 When an entity separates the intrinsic value and time value of an option contract and designates as thehedging instrument only the change in intrinsic value of the option (see paragraph 6.2.4(a)), it shallaccount for the time value of the option as follows (see paragraphs B6.5.29–B6.5.33):

(a) an entity shall distinguish the time value of options by the type of hedged item that the optionhedges (see paragraph B6.5.29):

(i) a transaction related hedged item; or

(ii) a time-period related hedged item.

(b) the change in fair value of the time value of an option that hedges a transaction related hedged itemshall be recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that it relates to the hedged item andshall be accumulated in a separate component of equity. The cumulative change in fair value arisingfrom the time value of the option that has been accumulated in a separate component of equity (the‘amount’) shall be accounted for as follows:

(i) if the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, or a firm commitment for a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability forwhich fair value hedge accounting is applied, the entity shall remove the amount from theseparate component of equity and include it directly in the initial cost or other carrying amountof the asset or the liability. This is not a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) and hencedoes not affect other comprehensive income.

(ii) for hedging relationships other than those covered by (i), the amount shall be reclassified fromthe separate component of equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS1) in the same period or periods during which the hedged expected future cash flows affectprofit or loss (for example, when a forecast sale occurs).

(iii) however, if all or a portion of that amount is not expected to be recovered in one or more futureperiods, the amount that is not expected to be recovered shall be immediately reclassified intoprofit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1).

(c) the change in fair value of the time value of an option that hedges a time-period related hedged itemshall be recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that it relates to the hedged item andshall be accumulated in a separate component of equity. The time value at the date of designation of

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201529A

the option as a hedging instrument, to the extent that it relates to the hedged item, shall be amortisedon a systematic and rational basis over the period during which the hedge adjustment for theoption’s intrinsic value could affect profit or loss (or other comprehensive income, if the hedged itemis an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fair value in othercomprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5). Hence, in each reporting period, theamortisation amount shall be reclassified from the separate component of equity to profit or loss asa reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1). However, if hedge accounting is discontinued for thehedging relationship that includes the change in intrinsic value of the option as the hedging instrument,the net amount (ie including cumulative amortisation) that has been accumulated in the separatecomponent of equity shall be immediately reclassified into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment(see LKAS 1).

Accounting for the Forward Element of Forward Contracts and Foreign Currency Basis Spreads of FinancialInstruments

6.5.16 When an entity separates the forward element and the spot element of a forward contract and designatesas the hedging instrument only the change in the value of the spot element of the forward contract, or whenan entity separates the foreign currency basis spread from a financial instrument and excludes it from thedesignation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraph 6.2.4(b)), the entity mayapply paragraph 6.5.15 to the forward element of the forward contract or to the foreign currency basisspread in the same manner as it is applied to the time value of an option. In that case, the entity shall applythe application guidance in paragraphs B6.5.34–B6.5.39.

6.6 Hedges of a Group of Items

Eligibility of a Group of Items as the Hedged Item

6.6.1 A group of items (including a group of items that constitute a net position; see paragraphs B6.6.1–B6.6.8) is an eligible hedged item only if:

(a) it consists of items (including components of items) that are, individually, eligible hedged items;

(b) the items in the group are managed together on a group basis for risk management purposes; and

(c) in the case of a cash flow hedge of a group of items whose variabilities in cash flows are not expectedto be approximately proportional to the overall variability in cash flows of the group so that offsettingrisk positions arise:

(i) it is a hedge of foreign currency risk; and

(ii) the designation of that net position specifies the reporting period in which the forecasttransactions are expected to affect profit or loss, as well as their nature and volume (seeparagraphs B6.6.7–B6.6.8).

Designation of a Component of a Nominal Amount

6.6.2 A component that is a proportion of an eligible group of items is an eligible hedged item provided thatdesignation is consistent with the entity’s risk management objective.

6.6.3 A layer component of an overall group of items (for example, a bottom layer) is eligible for hedge accountingonly if:

(a) it is separately identifiable and reliably measurable;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201530A

(b) the risk management objective is to hedge a layer component;

(c) the items in the overall group from which the layer is identified are exposed to the same hedged risk(so that the measurement of the hedged layer is not significantly affected by which particular itemsfrom the overall group form part of the hedged layer);

(d) for a hedge of existing items (for example, an unrecognised firm commitment or a recognised asset)an entity can identify and track the overall group of items from which the hedged layer is defined (sothat the entity is able to comply with the requirements for the accounting for qualifying hedgingrelationships); and

(e) any items in the group that contain prepayment options meet the requirements for components of anominal amount (see paragraph B6.3.20).

Presentation

6.6.4 For a hedge of a group of items with offsetting risk positions (ie in a hedge of a net position) whose hedgedrisk affects different line items in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, anyhedging gains or losses in that statement shall be presented in a separate line from those affected by thehedged items. Hence, in that statement the amount in the line item that relates to the hedged item itself (forexample, revenue or cost of sales) remains unaffected.

6.6.5 For assets and liabilities that are hedged together as a group in a fair value hedge, the gain or loss in thestatement of financial position on the individual assets and liabilities shall be recognised as an adjustmentof the carrying amount of the respective individual items comprising the group in accordance with paragraph6.5.8(b).

Nil Net Positions

6.6.6 When the hedged item is a group that is a nil net position (ie the hedged items among themselves fullyoffset the risk that is managed on a group basis), an entity is permitted to designate it in a hedgingrelationship that does not include a hedging instrument, provided that:

(a) the hedge is part of a rolling net risk hedging strategy, whereby the entity routinely hedges newpositions of the same type as time moves on (for example, when transactions move into the timehorizon for which the entity hedges);

(b) the hedged net position changes in size over the life of the rolling net risk hedging strategy and theentity uses eligible hedging instruments to hedge the net risk (ie when the net position is not nil);

(c) hedge accounting is normally applied to such net positions when the net position is not nil and it ishedged with eligible hedging instruments; and

(d) not applying hedge accounting to the nil net position would give rise to inconsistent accountingoutcomes, because the accounting would not recognise the offsetting risk positions that wouldotherwise be recognised in a hedge of a net position.

6.7 Option to Designate a Credit Exposure as Measured at Fair value through Profit or Loss

Eligibility of Credit Exposures for Designation at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

6.7.1 If an entity uses a credit derivative that is measured at fair value through profit or loss to manage thecredit risk of all, or a part of, a financial instrument (credit exposure) it may designate that financial

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201531A

instrument to the extent that it is so managed (ie all or a proportion of it) as measured at fair valuethrough profit or loss if:

(a) the name of the credit exposure (for example, the borrower, or the holder of a loan commitment)matches the reference entity of the credit derivative (‘name matching’); and

(b) the seniority of the financial instrument matches that of the instruments that can be delivered inaccordance with the credit derivative.

An entity may make this designation irrespective of whether the financial instrument that is managed forcredit risk is within the scope of this Standard (for example, an entity may designate loan commitmentsthat are outside the scope of this Standard). The entity may designate that financial instrument at, orsubsequent to, initial recognition, or while it is unrecognised. The entity shall document the designationconcurrently.

Accounting for Credit Exposures Designated at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

6.7.2 If a financial instrument is designated in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 as measured at fair value throughprofit or loss after its initial recognition, or was previously not recognised, the difference at the time ofdesignation between the carrying amount, if any, and the fair value shall immediately be recognised inprofit or loss. For financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordancewith paragraph 4.1.2A, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive incomeshall immediately be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1).

6.7.3 An entity shall discontinue measuring the financial instrument that gave rise to the credit risk, or aproportion of that financial instrument, at fair value through profit or loss if:

(a) the qualifying criteria in paragraph 6.7.1 are no longer met, for example:

(i) the credit derivative or the related financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk expires oris sold, terminated or settled; or

(ii) the credit risk of the financial instrument is no longer managed using credit derivatives. Forexample, this could occur because of improvements in the credit quality of the borrower or theloan commitment holder or changes to capital requirements imposed on an entity; and

(b) the financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk is not otherwise required to be measured atfair value through profit or loss (ie the entity’s business model has not changed in the meantime sothat a reclassification in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 was required).

6.7.4 When an entity discontinues measuring the financial instrument that gives rise to the credit risk, or aproportion of that financial instrument, at fair value through profit or loss, that financial instrument’s fairvalue at the date of discontinuation becomes its new carrying amount. Subsequently, the same measurementthat was used before designating the financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss shall beapplied (including amortisation that results from the new carrying amount). For example, a financial assetthat had originally been classified as measured at amortised cost would revert to that measurement and itseffective interest rate would be recalculated based on its new gross carrying amount on the date ofdiscontinuing measurement at fair value through profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201532A

Chapter 7 Effective Date and Transition

7.1 Effective Date

7.1.1 An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after1st January 2018. Earlierapplication is permitted. If an entity elects to apply this Standard early, it must disclose that fact and applyall of the requirements in this Standard at the same time (but see also paragraphs 7.1.2, 7.2.21 and 7.3.2). Itshall also, at the same time, apply the amendments in Appendix C.

7.1.2 Despite the requirements in paragraph 7.1.1, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018, anentity may elect to early apply only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financialliabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 andB5.7.5–B5.7.20 without applying the other requirements in this Standard. If an entity elects to apply onlythose paragraphs, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the related disclosures set outin paragraphs 10–11 of SLFRS 7. (See also paragraphs 7.2.2 and 7.2.15.)

7.1.3 Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraphs 4.2.1 and 5.7.5 as a consequential amendmentderived from the amendment to SLFRS 3. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to businesscombinations to which the amendment to SLFRS 3 applies.

7.1.4 SLFRS 15, amended paragraphs 3.1.1, 4.2.1, 5.1.1, 5.2.1, 5.7.6,B3.2.13, B5.7.1, C5 and C42 and deletedparagraph C16 and its related heading. Paragraphs 5.1.3 and 5.7.1A, and a definition to Appendix A, wereadded. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.

7.2 Transition

7.2.1 An entity shall apply this Standard retrospectively, in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies,Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.4–7.2.26 and 7.2.28.This Standard shall not be applied to items that have already been derecognised at the date of initialapplication.

7.2.2 For the purposes of the transition provisions in paragraphs 7.2.1, 7.2.3, 7.2.28 and 7.3.2, the date of initialapplication is the date when an entity first applies those requirements of this Standard and must be thebeginning of a reporting period after the issue of this Standard. Depending on the entity’s chosen approachto applying SLFRS 9, the transition can involve one or more than one date of initial application for differentrequirements.

Transition for Classification and Measurement(Chapters 4 and 5)

7.2.3 At the date of initial application, an entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the condition inparagraphs 4.1.2(a) or 4.1.2A(a) on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at that date. Theresulting classification shall be applied retrospectively irrespective of the entity’s business model in priorreporting periods.

7.2.4 If, at the date of initial application, it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to assess amodified time value of money element in accordance with paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D on the basis of thefacts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assessthe contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts and circumstancesthat existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the requirementsrelated to the modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D. (See alsoparagraph 42R of SLFRS 7.)

7.2.5 If, at the date of initial application, it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to assess whetherthe fair value of a prepayment feature was insignificant in accordance with paragraph B4.1.12(c) on the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201533A

basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entityshall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on the basis of the facts andcircumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account theexception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12. (See also paragraph 42S of SLFRS 7.)

7.2.6 If an entity measures a hybrid contract at fair value in accordance with paragraphs 4.1.2A, 4.1.4 or 4.1.5 butthe fair value of the hybrid contract had not been measured in comparative reporting periods, the fair valueof the hybrid contract in the comparative reporting periods shall be the sum of the fair values of thecomponents (ie the non-derivative host and the embedded derivative) at the end of each comparativereporting period if the entity restates prior periods (see paragraph 7.2.15).

7.2.7 If an entity has applied paragraph 7.2.6 then at the date of initial application the entity shall recognise anydifference between the fair value of the entire hybrid contract at the date of initial application and the sumof the fair values of the components of the hybrid contract at the date of initial application in the openingretained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the reporting period that includes thedate of initial application.

7.2.8 At the date of initial application an entity may designate:

(a) a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.1.5;or

(b) an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensive income inaccordance with paragraph 5.7.5.

Such a designation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of initialapplication. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.

7.2.9 At the date of initial application an entity:

(a) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit orloss if that financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraph 4.1.5.

(b) may revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit orloss if that financial asset meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.5.

Such a revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of initialapplication. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.

7.2.10 At the date of initial application, an entity:

(a) may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance withparagraph 4.2.2(a).

(b) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit orloss if such designation was made at initial recognition in accordance with the condition now inparagraph 4.2.2(a) and such designation does not satisfy that condition at the date of initial application.

(c) may revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit orloss if such designation was made at initial recognition in accordance with the condition now inparagraph 4.2.2(a) and such designation satisfies that condition at the date of initial application.

Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist atthe date of initial application. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201534A

7.2.11 If it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entity to apply retrospectively the effective interestmethod, the entity shall treat:

(a) the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the end of each comparative periodpresented as the gross carrying amount of that financial asset or the amortised cost of that financialliability if the entity restates prior periods; and

(b) the fair value of the financial asset or the financial liability at the date of initial application as the newgross carrying amount of that financial asset or the new amortised cost of that financial liability at thedate of initial application of this Standard.

7.2.12 If an entity previously accounted at cost (in accordance with LKAS 39), for an investment in an equityinstrument that does not have a quoted price in an active market for an identical instrument (ie a Level 1input) (or for a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an equityinstrument) it shall measure that instrument at fair value at the date of initial application. Any differencebetween the previous carrying amount and the fair value shall be recognised in the opening retainedearnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the reporting period that includes the date ofinitial application.

7.2.13 If an entity previously accounted for a derivative liability that is linked to, and must be settled by, deliveryof an equity instrument that does not have a quoted price in an active market for an identical instrument (iea Level 1 input) at cost in accordance with LKAS 39, it shall measure that derivative liability at fair value atthe date of initial application. Any difference between the previous carrying amount and the fair value shallbe recognised in the opening retained earnings of the reporting period that includes the date of initialapplication.

7.2.14 At the date of initial application, an entity shall determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 wouldcreate or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss on the basis of the facts and circumstances thatexist at the date of initial application. This Standard shall be applied retrospectively on the basis of thatdetermination.

7.2.15 Despite the requirement in paragraph 7.2.1, an entity that adopts the classification and measurementrequirements of this Standard (which include the requirements related to amortised cost measurement forfinancial assets and impairment in Sections 5.4 and 5.5) shall provide the disclosures set out in paragraphs42L–42O of SLFRS 7 but need not restate prior periods. The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if,it is possible without the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate prior periods, the entity shallrecognise any difference between the previous carrying amount and the carrying amount at the beginningof the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application in the opening retained earnings(or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the date ofinitial application. However, if an entity restates prior periods, the restated financial statements must reflectall of the requirements in this Standard. If an entity’s chosen approach to applying SLFRS 9 results in morethan one date of initial application for different requirements, this paragraph applies at each date of initialapplication (see paragraph 7.2.2). This would be the case, for example, if an entity elects to early apply onlythe requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities designated as at fair valuethrough profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 7.1.2 before applying the other requirements in thisStandard.

7.2.16 If an entity prepares interim financial reports in accordance with LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting theentity need not apply the requirements in this Standard to interim periods prior to the date of initialapplication if it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201535A

Impairment (Section 5.5)

7.2.17 An entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 retrospectively in accordance withLKAS 8 subject to paragraphs 7.2.15 and 7.2.18–7.2.20.

7.2.18 At the date of initial application, an entity shall use reasonable and supportable information that is availablewithout undue cost or effort to determine the credit risk at the date that a financial instrument was initiallyrecognised (or for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts at the date that the entity becamea party to the irrevocable commitment in accordance with paragraph 5.5.6) and compare that to the creditrisk at the date of initial application of this Standard.

7.2.19 When determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, anentity may apply:

(a) the requirements in paragraphs 5.5.10 and B5.5.22–B5.5.24; and

(b) the rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 for contractual payments that are more than 30 dayspast due if an entity will apply the impairment requirements by identifying significant increases incredit risk since initial recognition for those financial instruments on the basis of past due information.

7.2.20 If, at the date of initial application, determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risksince initial recognition would require undue cost or effort, an entity shall recognise a loss allowance at anamount equal to lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date until that financial instrument isderecognised (unless that financial instrument is low credit risk at a reporting date, in which case paragraph7.2.19(a) applies).

Transition for Hedge Accounting (Chapter 6)

7.2.21 When an entity first applies this Standard, it may choose as its accounting policy to continue to apply thehedge accounting requirements of LKAS 39 instead of the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Standard. Anentity shall apply that policy to all of its hedging relationships. An entity that chooses that policy shall alsoapply IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation without the amendments that conformthat Interpretation to the requirements in Chapter 6 of this Standard.

7.2.22 Except as provided in paragraph 7.2.26, an entity shall apply the hedge accounting requirements of thisStandard prospectively.

7.2.23 To apply hedge accounting from the date of initial application of the hedge accounting requirements of thisStandard, all qualifying criteria must be met as at that date.

7.2.24 Hedging relationships that qualified for hedge accounting in accordance with LKAS 39 that also qualifyfor hedge accounting in accordance with the criteria of this Standard (see paragraph 6.4.1), after taking intoaccount any rebalancing of the hedging relationship on transition (see paragraph 7.2.25(b), shall be regardedas continuing hedging relationships.

7.2.25 On initial application of the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard, an entity:

(a) may start to apply those requirements from the same point in time as it ceases to apply the hedgeaccounting requirements of LKAS 39; and

(b) shall consider the hedge ratio in accordance with LKAS 39 as the starting point for rebalancing thehedge ratio of a continuing hedging relationship, if applicable. Any gain or loss from such a rebalancingshall be recognised in profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201536A

7.2.26 As an exception to prospective application of the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard, anentity:

(a) shall apply the accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15retrospectively if, in accordance with LKAS 39, only the change in an option’s intrinsic value wasdesignated as a hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. This retrospective application appliesonly to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earliest comparative periodor were designated thereafter.

(b) may apply the accounting for the forward element of forward contracts in accordance with paragraph6.5.16 retrospectively if, in accordance with LKAS 39, only the change in the spot element of aforward contract was designated as a hedging instrument in a hedging relationship. This retrospectiveapplication applies only to those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earliestcomparative period or were designated thereafter. In addition, if an entity elects retrospectiveapplication of this accounting, it shall be applied to all hedging relationships that qualify for thiselection (ie on transition this election is not available on a hedging-relationship-by-hedging-relationship basis).The accounting for foreign currency basis spreads (see paragraph 6.5.16) may beapplied retrospectively for those hedging relationships that existed at the beginning of the earliestcomparative period or were designated thereafter.

(c) shall apply retrospectively the requirement of paragraph 6.5.6 that there is not an expiration ortermination of the hedging instrument if:

(i) as a consequence of laws or regulations, or the introduction of laws or regulations, the parties tothe hedging instrument agree that one or more clearing counterparties replace their originalcounterparty to become the new counterparty to each of the parties; and

(ii) other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are necessary to effectsuch a replacement of the counterparty.

Entities That have Applied SLFRS 9 Early

7.2.27 An entity shall apply the transition requirements in paragraphs 7.2.1–7.2.26 at the relevant date of initialapplication. An entity shall apply each of the transition provisions in paragraphs 7.2.3–7.2.14 and 7.2.17–7.2.26 only once (ie if an entity chooses an approach of applying SLFRS 9 that involves more than one dateof initial application, it cannot apply any of those provisions again if they were already applied at an earlierdate). (See paragraphs 7.2.2 and 7.3.2.)

7.2.28 An entity that applied SLFRS 9 (2012)and subsequently applies this Standard:

(a) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit orloss if that designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 butthat condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the application of this Standard;

(b) may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that designationwould not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 but that condition is nowsatisfied as a result of the application of this Standard;

(c) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit orloss if that designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a)but that condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the application of this Standard; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201537A

(d) may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that designationwould not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that condition is nowsatisfied as a result of the application of this Standard.

Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist atthe date of initial application of this Standard. That classification shall be applied retrospectively.

7.3 Withdrawal of IFRIC 9, SLFRS 9

7.3.1 This Standard supersedes IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives. The requirements added toSLFRS 9 (2012) incorporated the requirements previously set out in paragraphs 5 and 7 of IFRIC 9. As aconsequential amendment, SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards incorporatedthe requirements previously set out in paragraph 8 of IFRIC 9.

7.3.2 This Standard supersedes SLFRS 9 (2012). However, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018,an entity may elect to apply that earlier versions of SLFRS 9 instead of applying this Standard if, and onlyif, the entity’s relevant date of initial application is before 1st February 2015.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201538A

Appendix A

Defined Terms

This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.

12-month expected credit lossesThe portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent the expected creditlosses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are possiblewithin the 12 months after the reporting date.

Amortised cost of a financial assetThe amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is measured at initialor financial liabilityrecognition minus the principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulativeamortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between thatinitial amount and the maturity amount and, for financial assets, adjusted for anyloss allowance.

Contract assetsThose rights that SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers specifies areaccounted for in accordance with this Standard for the purposes of recognisingand measuring impairment gains or losses.

Credit-impaired financial assetA financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a detrimentalimpact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have occurred.Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data aboutthe following events:

(a) significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;

(b) a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event;

(c) the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relatingto the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower aconcession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;

(d) it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or otherfinancial reorganisation;

(e) the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because offinancial difficulties; or

(f) the purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount thatreflects the incurred credit losses.

It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event—instead, the combinedeffect of several events may have caused financial assets to become credit-impaired.

Credit lossThe difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to an entity inaccordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects toreceive (ie all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original effective interest rate (orcredit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impairedfinancial assets). An entity shall estimate cash flows by considering all contractualterms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call andsimilar options) through the expected life of that financial instrument. The cashflows that are considered shall include cash flows from the sale of collateral held orother credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms. There is apresumption that the expected life of a financial instrument can be estimated reliably.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201539A

However, in those rare cases when it is not possible to reliably estimate the expectedlife of a financial instrument, the entity shall use the remaining contractual term ofthe financial instrument.

Credit-adjusted effective interest rateThe rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receiptsthrough the expected life of the financial asset to the amortised cost of a financialasset that is a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset. Whencalculating the credit-adjusted effective interest rate, an entity shall estimate theexpected cash flows by considering all contractual terms of the financial asset (forexample, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) and expected credit losses.The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to thecontract that are an integral part of the effective interest rate (see paragraphsB5.4.1 B5.4.3), transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts. There is apresumption that the cash flows and the expected life of a group of similar financialinstruments can be estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is notpossible to reliably estimate the cash flows or the remaining life of a financialinstrument (or group of financial instruments), the entity shall use the contractualcash flows over the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or group offinancial instruments).

DerecognitionThe removal of a previously recognised financial asset or financial liability from anentity’s statement of financial position.

DerivativeA financial instrument or other contract within the scope of this Standard with allthree of the following characteristics.

(a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest rate,financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index ofprices or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in thecase of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party tothe contract (sometimes called the ‘underlying’).

(b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment that is smallerthan would be required for other types of contracts that would be expectedto have a similar response to changes in market factors.

(c) it is settled at a future date.

DividendsDistributions of profits to holders of equity instruments in proportion to theirholdings of a particular class of capital.

Effective interest methodThe method that is used in the calculation of the amortised cost of a financialasset or a financial liability and in the allocation and recognition of the interestrevenue or interest expense in profit or loss over the relevant period.

Effective interest rateThe rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts throughthe expected life of the financial asset or financial liability to the gross carryingamount of a financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. Whencalculating the effective interest rate, an entity shall estimate the expected cashflows by considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (forexample, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but shall not considerthe expected credit losses. The calculation includes all fees and points paid orreceived between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effective

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201540A

interest rate (see paragraphs B5.4.1–B5.4.3), transaction costs, and all otherpremiums or discounts. There is a presumption that the cash flows and the expectedlife of a group of similar financial instruments can be estimated reliably. However,in those rare cases when it is not possible to reliably estimate the cash flows or theexpected life of a financial instrument (or group of financial instruments), theentity shall use the contractual cash flows over the full contractual term of thefinancial instrument (or group of financial instruments).

Expected credit lossesThe weighted average of credit losses with the respective risks of a defaultoccurring as the weights.

Financial guarantee contractA contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse theholder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment whendue in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.

Financial liability at fair valueA financial liability that meets one of the following conditions.through profit or loss(a) it meets the definition of held for trading.

(b) upon initial recognition it is designated by the entity as at fair value throughprofit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 or 4.3.5.

(c) it is designated either upon initial recognition or subsequently as at fairvalue through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1.

Firm commitmentA binding agreement for the exchange of a specified quantity of resources at aspecified price on a specified future date or dates.

Forecast transactionAn uncommitted but anticipated future transaction.

Gross carrying amount of aThe amortised cost of a financial asset, before adjusting for any loss allowance.financial asset

Hedge ratioThe relationship between the quantity of the hedging instrument and the quantityof the hedged item in terms of their relative weighting.

Held for tradingA financial asset or financial liability that:(a) is acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasingit in the near term;(b) on initial recognition is part of a portfolio of identified financial instrumentsthat are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actualpattern of short-term profit-taking; or(c) is a derivative (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract ora designated and effective hedging instrument).

Impairment gain or lossGains or losses that are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with paragraph5.5.8 and that arise from applying the impairment requirements in Section 5.5.

Lifetime expected credit lossesThe expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over theexpected life of a financial instrument.

Loss allowanceThe allowance for expected credit losses on financial assets measured in accordancewith paragraph 4.1.2, lease receivables and contract assets, the accumulatedimpairment amount for financial assets measured in accordance with paragraph4.1.2A and the provision for expected credit losses on loan commitments andfinancial guarantee contracts.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201541A

Modification gain or lossThe amount arising from adjusting the gross carrying amount of a financial assetto reflect the renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows. The entity recalculatesthe gross carrying amount of a financial asset as the present value of the estimatedfuture cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the renegotiated ormodified financial asset that are discounted at the financial asset’s original effectiveinterest rate (or the original credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchasedor originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revisedeffective interest rate calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. Whenestimating the expected cash flows of a financial asset, an entity shall consider allcontractual terms of the financial asset (for example, prepayment, call and similaroptions) but shall not consider the expected credit losses, unless the financialasset is a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset, in which casean entity shall also consider the initial expected credit losses that were consideredwhen calculating the original credit-adjusted effective interest rate.

Past dueA financial asset is past due when a counterparty has failed to make a paymentwhen that payment was contractually due.

Purchased or originatedPurchased or originated financial asset(s) that are credit-impaired on initialcredit-impaired financial assetrecognition.

Reclassification dateThe first day of the first reporting period following the change in business modelthat results in an entity reclassifying financial assets.

Regular way purchase or saleA purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose terms requiredelivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation orconvention in the market place concerned.

Transaction costsIncremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposalof a financial asset or financial liability (see paragraph B5.4.8). An incremental costis one that would not have been incurred if the entity had not acquired, issued ordisposed of the financial instrument.

The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32, Appendix A of SLFRS 7, Appendix A of SLFRS 13 or AppendixA of SLFRS 15 and are used in this Standard with the meanings specified in LKAS 32, SLFRS 7, SLFRS 13 or SLFRS 15:

(a) credit risk;2

(b) equity instrument;

(c) fair value;

(d) financial asset;

(e) financial instrument;

(f) financial liability;

(g) transaction price.

–––––––––––––2This term (as defined in SLFRS 7) is used in the requirements for presenting the effects of changes in credit risk onliabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 5.7.7).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201542A

Appendix B

Application Guidance

This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.

Scope (Chapter 2)

B2.1Some contracts require a payment based on climatic, geological or other physical variables. (Those based onclimatic variables are sometimes referred to as ‘weather derivatives’.) If those contracts are not within the scopeof SLFRS 4, they are within the scope of this Standard.

B2.2This Standard does not change the requirements relating to employee benefit plans that comply with LKAS 26Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans and royalty agreements based on the volume of sales orservice revenues that are accounted for under SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

B2.3Sometimes, an entity makes what it views as a ‘strategic investment’ in equity instruments issued by anotherentity, with the intention of establishing or maintaining a long-term operating relationship with the entity inwhich the investment is made. The investor or joint venturer entity uses LKAS 28 to determine whether theequity method of accounting shall be applied to such an investment.

B2.4This Standard applies to the financial assets and financial liabilities of insurers, other than rights and obligationsthat paragraph 2.1(e) excludes because they arise under contracts within the scope of SLFRS 4 InsuranceContracts.

B2.5Financial guarantee contracts may have various legal forms, such as a guarantee, some types of letter of credit,a credit default contract or an insurance contract. Their accounting treatment does not depend on their legalform. The following are examples of the appropriate treatment (see paragraph 2.1(e)):

(a) Although a financial guarantee contract meets the definition of an insurance contract in SLFRS 4 if therisk transferred is significant, the issuer applies this Standard. Nevertheless, if the issuer has previouslyasserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting that isapplicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either this Standard or SLFRS 4 to suchfinancial guarantee contracts. If this Standard applies, paragraph 5.1.1 requires the issuer to recognise afinancial guarantee contract initially at fair value. If the financial guarantee contract was issued to anunrelated party in a stand-alone arm’s length transaction, its fair value at inception is likely to equal thepremium received, unless there is evidence to the contrary. Subsequently, unless the financial guaranteecontract was designated at inception as at fair value through profit or loss or unless paragraphs 3.2.15–3.2.23 and B3.2.12–B3.2.17 apply (when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognitionor the continuing involvement approach applies), the issuer measures it at the higher of:

(i) the amount determined in accordance with Section 5.5; and

(ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognisedin accordance with the principles of SLFRS 15 (see paragraph 4.2.1(c)).

(b) Some credit-related guarantees do not, as a precondition for payment, require that the holder is exposedto, and has incurred a loss on, the failure of the debtor to make payments on the guaranteed asset whendue. An example of such a guarantee is one that requires payments in response to changes in a specifiedcredit rating or credit index. Such guarantees are not financial guarantee contracts as defined in thisStandard, and are not insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4. Such guarantees are derivatives and theissuer applies this Standard to them.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201543A

(c) If a financial guarantee contract was issued in connection with the sale of goods, the issuer appliesSLFRS 15 in determining when it recognises the revenue from the guarantee and from the sale of goods.

B2.6Assertions that an issuer regards contracts as insurance contracts are typically found throughout the issuer’scommunications with customers and regulators, contracts, business documentation and financial statements.Furthermore, insurance contracts are often subject to accounting requirements that are distinct from therequirements for other types of transaction, such as contracts issued by banks or commercial companies. In suchcases, an issuer’s financial statements typically include a statement that the issuer has used those accountingrequirements.

Recognition and Derecognition (Chapter 3)

Initial Recognition (Section 3.1)

B3.1.1As a consequence of the principle in paragraph 3.1.1, an entity recognises all of its contractual rights andobligations under derivatives in its statement of financial position as assets and liabilities, respectively, exceptfor derivatives that prevent a transfer of financial assets from being accounted for as a sale (see paragraphB3.2.14). If a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferee does not recognise thetransferred asset as its asset (see paragraph B3.2.15).

B3.1.2The following are examples of applying the principle in paragraph 3.1.1:

(a) Unconditional receivables and payables are recognised as assets or liabilities when the entity becomesa party to the contract and, as a consequence, has a legal right to receive or a legal obligation to pay cash.

(b) Assets to be acquired and liabilities to be incurred as a result of a firm commitment to purchase or sellgoods or services are generally not recognised until at least one of the parties has performed under theagreement. For example, an entity that receives a firm order does not generally recognise an asset (and theentity that places the order does not recognise a liability) at the time of the commitment but, instead,delays recognition until the ordered goods or services have been shipped, delivered or rendered. If a firmcommitment to buy or sell non-financial items is within the scope of this Standard in accordance withparagraphs 2.4–2.7, its net fair value is recognised as an asset or a liability on the commitment date (seeparagraph B4.1.30(c)). In addition, if a previously unrecognised firm commitment is designated as ahedged item in a fair value hedge, any change in the net fair value attributable to the hedged risk isrecognised as an asset or a liability after the inception of the hedge (see paragraphs 6.5.8(b) and 6.5.9).

(c) A forward contract that is within the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.1) is recognised as an assetor a liability on the commitment date, instead of on the date on which settlement takes place. When anentity becomes a party to a forward contract, the fair values of the right and obligation are often equal, sothat the net fair value of the forward is zero. If the net fair value of the right and obligation is not zero, thecontract is recognised as an asset or liability.

(d) Option contracts that are within the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.1) are recognised as assetsor liabilities when the holder or writer becomes a party to the contract.

(e) Planned future transactions, no matter how likely, are not assets and liabilities because the entity has notbecome a party to a contract.

Regular Way Purchase or Sale of Financial Assets

B3.1.3A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognised using either trade date accounting or settlementdate accounting as described in paragraphs B3.1.5 and B3.1.6. An entity shall apply the same method consistentlyfor all purchases and sales of financial assets that are classified in the same way in accordance with this

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201544A

Standard. For this purpose assets that are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss form aseparate classification from assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss. In addition,investments in equity instruments accounted for using the option provided in paragraph 5.7.5 form a separateclassification.

B 3.1.4A contract that requires or permits net settlement of the change in the value of the contract is not a regular waycontract. Instead, such a contract is accounted for as a derivative in the period between the trade date and thesettlement date.

B 3.1.5The trade date is the date that an entity commits itself to purchase or sell an asset. Trade date accounting refersto (a) the recognition of an asset to be received and the liability to pay for it on the trade date, and (b) derecognitionof an asset that is sold, recognition of any gain or loss on disposal and the recognition of a receivable from thebuyer for payment on the trade date. Generally, interest does not start to accrue on the asset and correspondingliability until the settlement date when title passes.

B 3.1.6The settlement date is the date that an asset is delivered to or by an entity. Settlement date accounting refers to(a) the recognition of an asset on the day it is received by the entity, and (b) the derecognition of an asset andrecognition of any gain or loss on disposal on the day that it is delivered by the entity. When settlement dateaccounting is applied an entity accounts for any change in the fair value of the asset to be received during theperiod between the trade date and the settlement date in the same way as it accounts for the acquired asset. Inother words, the change in value is not recognised for assets measured at amortised cost; it is recognised inprofit or loss for assets classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss; and it isrecognised in other comprehensive income for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensiveincome in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A and for investments in equity instruments accounted for in accordancewith paragraph 5.7.5.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201545A

Have the rights to the cash flowsfrom the asset expired?Paragraph 3.2.3(a)]

Has the entity transferred its rights toreceive the cash flows from the asset?[Paragraph 3.2.4(a)]

Has the entity assumed an obligationto pay the cash flows from the asset thatmeets the considerations in paragraph 3.2.5?[Paragraph 3.2.4(b)]

Has the entity transferredsubstantially all risks and rewards?[Paragraph 3.2.6(a)]

Has the entity retained substantiallyall risks and rewards?Paragraph 3.2.6(b)]

Has the entity retained control ofthe asset? [Paragraph 3.2.6(c)]

Continue to recognise the asset to the extent ofentity’s continuing involvement

Derecognise theasset

Continue torecognise the asset

Derecognise theasset

Continue torecognise the asset

Derecognise theasset

No

Derecognition of Financial Assets (Section 3.2)

B 3.2.1The following flow chart illustrates the evaluation of whether and to what extent a financial asset is derecognised.

Determine whether the derecognition principles below are applied toa part or all of an asset (or group of similar assets) [Paragraph 3.2.2]

Consolidate all subsidiaries [Paragraph 3.2.1]

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201546A

Arrangements under which an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of a financialasset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients (paragraph3.2.4(b))

B3.2.2The situation described in paragraph 3.2.4(b) (when an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cashflows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients)occurs, for example, if the entity is a trust, and issues to investors beneficial interests in the underlying financialassets that it owns and provides servicing of those financial assets. In that case, the financial assets qualify forderecognition if the conditions in paragraphs 3.2.5 and 3.2.6 are met.

B3.2.3In applying paragraph 3.2.5, the entity could be, for example, the originator of the financial asset, or it could be agroup that includes a subsidiary that has acquired the financial asset and passes on cash flows to unrelated thirdparty investors.

Evaluation of the Transfer of Risks and Rewards of Ownership (paragraph 3.2.6)

B3.2.4Examples of when an entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are:

(a) an unconditional sale of a financial asset;

(b) a sale of a financial asset together with an option to repurchase the financial asset at its fair value at thetime of repurchase; and

(c) a sale of a financial asset together with a put or call option that is deeply out of the money (ie an option thatis so far out of the money it is highly unlikely to go into the money before expiry).

B3.2.5Examples of when an entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are:

(a) a sale and repurchase transaction where the repurchase price is a fixed price or the sale price plus alender’s return;

(b) a securities lending agreement;

(c) a sale of a financial asset together with a total return swap that transfers the market risk exposure back tothe entity;

(d) a sale of a financial asset together with a deep in-the-money put or call option (ie an option that is so farin the money that it is highly unlikely to go out of the money before expiry); and

(e) a sale of short-term receivables in which the entity guarantees to compensate the transferee for creditlosses that are likely to occur.

B3.2.6If an entity determines that as a result of the transfer, it has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards ofownership of the transferred asset, it does not recognise the transferred asset again in a future period, unless itreacquires the transferred asset in a new transaction.

Evaluation of the Transfer of Control

B3.2.7An entity has not retained control of a transferred asset if the transferee has the practical ability to sell thetransferred asset. An entity has retained control of a transferred asset if the transferee does not have the practicalability to sell the transferred asset. A transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset if it is tradedin an active market because the transferee could repurchase the transferred asset in the market if it needs to

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201547A

return the asset to the entity. For example, a transferee may have the practical ability to sell a transferred asset ifthe transferred asset is subject to an option that allows the entity to repurchase it, but the transferee can readilyobtain the transferred asset in the market if the option is exercised. A transferee does not have the practical abilityto sell the transferred asset if the entity retains such an option and the transferee cannot readily obtain thetransferred asset in the market if the entity exercises its option.

B3.2.8The transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset only if the transferee can sell the transferredasset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without imposingadditional restrictions on the transfer. The critical question is what the transferee is able to do in practice, notwhat contractual rights the transferee has concerning what it can do with the transferred asset or what contractualprohibitions exist. In particular:

(a) a contractual right to dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if there is no market for thetransferred asset, and

(b) an ability to dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if it cannot be exercised freely. Forthat reason:

(i) the transferee’s ability to dispose of the transferred asset must be independent of the actions ofothers (ie it must be a unilateral ability), and

(ii) the transferee must be able to dispose of the transferred asset without needing to attach restrictiveconditions or ‘strings’ to the transfer (eg conditions about how a loan asset is serviced or an optiongiving the transferee the right to repurchase the asset).

B3.2.9That the transferee is unlikely to sell the transferred asset does not, of itself, mean that the transferor has retainedcontrol of the transferred asset. However, if a put option or guarantee constrains the transferee from selling thetransferred asset, then the transferor has retained control of the transferred asset. For example, if a put option orguarantee is sufficiently valuable it constrains the transferee from selling the transferred asset because thetransferee would, in practice, not sell the transferred asset to a third party without attaching a similar option orother restrictive conditions. Instead, the transferee would hold the transferred asset so as to obtain paymentsunder the guarantee or put option. Under these circumstances the transferor has retained control of the transferredasset.

Transfers That Qualify for Derecognition

B3.2.10An entity may retain the right to a part of the interest payments on transferred assets as compensation forservicing those assets. The part of the interest payments that the entity would give up upon termination ortransfer of the servicing contract is allocated to the servicing asset or servicing liability. The part of the interestpayments that the entity would not give up is an interest-only strip receivable. For example, if the entity wouldnot give up any interest upon termination or transfer of the servicing contract, the entire interest spread is aninterest-only strip receivable. For the purposes of applying paragraph 3.2.13, the fair values of the servicingasset and interest-only strip receivable are used to allocate the carrying amount of the receivable between thepart of the asset that is derecognised and the part that continues to be recognised. If there is no servicing feespecified or the fee to be received is not expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing theservicing, a liability for the servicing obligation is recognised at fair value.

B3.2.11When measuring the fair values of the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised forthe purposes of applying paragraph 3.2.13, an entity applies the fair value measurement requirements in SLFRS13 in addition to paragraph 3.2.14.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201548A

Transfers That do not Qualify for Derecognition

B3.2.12The following is an application of the principle outlined in paragraph 3.2.15. If a guarantee provided by the entityfor default losses on the transferred asset prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised because theentity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the transferredasset continues to be recognised in its entirety and the consideration received is recognised as a liability.

Continuing Involvement in Transferred Assets

B3.2.13The following are examples of how an entity measures a transferred asset and the associated liability underparagraph 3.2.16.

All Assets

(a) If a guarantee provided by an entity to pay for default losses on a transferred asset prevents the transferredasset from being derecognised to the extent of the continuing involvement, the transferred asset at thedate of the transfer is measured at the lower of (i) the carrying amount of the asset and (ii) the maximumamount of the consideration received in the transfer that the entity could be required to repay (‘theguarantee amount’). The associated liability is initially measured at the guarantee amount plus the fairvalue of the guarantee (which is normally the consideration received for the guarantee). Subsequently, theinitial fair value of the guarantee is recognised in profit or loss when (or as) the obligation is satisfied (inaccordance with the principles of SLFRS 15) and the carrying value of the asset is reduced by any lossallowance.

Assets Measured at Amortised Cost

(b) If a put option obligation written by an entity or call option right held by an entity prevents a transferredasset from being derecognised and the entity measures the transferred asset at amortised cost, theassociated liability is measured at its cost (ie the consideration received) adjusted for the amortisation ofany difference between that cost and the gross carrying amount of the transferred asset at the expirationdate of the option. For example, assume that the gross carrying amount of the asset on the date of thetransfer is Rs.98 and that the consideration received is Rs.95. The gross carrying amount of the asset onthe option exercise date will be Rs.100. The initial carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.95 andthe difference between Rs.95 and Rs.100 is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.If the option is exercised, any difference between the carrying amount of the associated liability and theexercise price is recognised in profit or loss.

Assets Measured at Fair Value

(c) If a call option right retained by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised and theentity measures the transferred asset at fair value, the asset continues to be measured at its fair value. Theassociated liability is measured at (i) the option exercise price less the time value of the option if the optionis in or at the money, or (ii) the fair value of the transferred asset less the time value of the option if theoption is out of the money. The adjustment to the measurement of the associated liability ensures that thenet carrying amount of the asset and the associated liability is the fair value of the call option right. Forexample, if the fair value of the underlying asset is Rs.80, the option exercise price is Rs.95 and the timevalue of the option is Rs.5, the carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.75 (Rs.80 – Rs.5) and thecarrying amount of the transferred asset is Rs.80 (ie its fair value).

(d) If a put option written by an entity prevents a transferred asset from being derecognised and the entitymeasures the transferred asset at fair value, the associated liability is measured at the option exercise priceplus the time value of the option. The measurement of the asset at fair value is limited to the lower of thefair value and the option exercise price because the entity has no right to increases in the fair value of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201549A

transferred asset above the exercise price of the option. This ensures that the net carrying amount of theasset and the associated liability is the fair value of the put option obligation. For example, if the fair valueof the underlying asset is Rs.120, the option exercise price is Rs.100 and the time value of the option isRs.5, the carrying amount of the associated liability is Rs.105 (Rs.100 + Rs.5) and the carrying amount ofthe asset is Rs.100 (in this case the option exercise price).

(e) If a collar, in the form of a purchased call and written put, prevents a transferred asset from being derecognisedand the entity measures the asset at fair value, it continues to measure the asset at fair value. Theassociated liability is measured at (i) the sum of the call exercise price and fair value of the put option lessthe time value of the call option, if the call option is in or at the money, or (ii) the sum of the fair value of theasset and the fair value of the put option less the time value of the call option if the call option is out of themoney. The adjustment to the associated liability ensures that the net carrying amount of the asset andthe associated liability is the fair value of the options held and written by the entity. For example, assumean entity transfers a financial asset that is measured at fair value while simultaneously purchasing a callwith an exercise price of Rs.120 and writing a put with an exercise price of Rs.80. Assume also that the fairvalue of the asset is Rs.100 at the date of the transfer. The time value of the put and call are Rs.1 and Rs.5respectively. In this case, the entity recognises an asset of Rs.100 (the fair value of the asset) and a liabilityof Rs.96 [(Rs.100 + Rs.1) – Rs.5]. This gives a net asset value of Rs.4, which is the fair value of the optionsheld and written by the entity.

All Transfers

B3.2.14To the extent that a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferor’s contractualrights or obligations related to the transfer are not accounted for separately as derivatives if recognising both thederivative and either the transferred asset or the liability arising from the transfer would result in recognising thesame rights or obligations twice. For example, a call option retained by the transferor may prevent a transfer offinancial assets from being accounted for as a sale. In that case, the call option is not separately recognised as aderivative asset.

B3.2.15To the extent that a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferee does notrecognise the transferred asset as its asset. The transferee derecognises the cash or other consideration paid andrecognises a receivable from the transferor. If the transferor has both a right and an obligation to reacquirecontrol of the entire transferred asset for a fixed amount (such as under a repurchase agreement), the transfereemay measure its receivable at amortised cost if it meets the criteria in paragraph 4.1.2.

Examples

B3.2.16The following examples illustrate the application of the derecognition principles of this Standard.

(a) Repurchase agreements and securities lending. If a financial asset is sold under an agreement to repurchaseit at a fixed price or at the sale price plus a lender’s return or if it is loaned under an agreement to return itto the transferor, it is not derecognised because the transferor retains substantially all the risks andrewards of ownership. If the transferee obtains the right to sell or pledge the asset, the transferor reclassifiesthe asset in its statement of financial position, for example, as a loaned asset or repurchase receivable.

(b) Repurchase agreements and securities lending—assets that are substantially the same. If a financialasset is sold under an agreement to repurchase the same or substantially the same asset at a fixed price orat the sale price plus a lender’s return or if a financial asset is borrowed or loaned under an agreement toreturn the same or substantially the same asset to the transferor, it is not derecognised because thetransferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.

(c) Repurchase agreements and securities lending—right of substitution. If a repurchase agreement at afixed repurchase price or a price equal to the sale price plus a lender’s return, or a similar securities lending

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201550A

transaction, provides the transferee with a right to substitute assets that are similar and of equal fair valueto the transferred asset at the repurchase date, the asset sold or lent under a repurchase or securitieslending transaction is not derecognised because the transferor retains substantially all the risks andrewards of ownership.

(d) Repurchase right of first refusal at fair value. If an entity sells a financial asset and retains only a right offirst refusal to repurchase the transferred asset at fair value if the transferee subsequently sells it, theentity derecognises the asset because it has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.

(e) Wash sale transaction. The repurchase of a financial asset shortly after it has been sold is sometimesreferred to as a wash sale. Such a repurchase does not preclude derecognition provided that the originaltransaction met the derecognition requirements. However, if an agreement to sell a financial asset isentered into concurrently with an agreement to repurchase the same asset at a fixed price or the sale priceplus a lender’s return, then the asset is not derecognised.

(f) Put options and call options that are deeply in the money. If a transferred financial asset can be calledback by the transferor and the call option is deeply in the money, the transfer does not qualify forderecognition because the transferor has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.Similarly, if the financial asset can be put back by the transferee and the put option is deeply in the money,the transfer does not qualify for derecognition because the transferor has retained substantially all therisks and rewards of ownership.

(g) Put options and call options that are deeply out of the money. A financial asset that is transferred subjectonly to a deep out-of-the-money put option held by the transferee or a deep out-of-the-money call optionheld by the transferor is derecognised. This is because the transferor has transferred substantially all therisks and rewards of ownership.

(h) Readily obtainable assets subject to a call option that is neither deeply in the money nor deeply out ofthe money. If an entity holds a call option on an asset that is readily obtainable in the market and the optionis neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money, the asset is derecognised. This is because theentity (i) has neither retained nor transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, and (ii)has not retained control. However, if the asset is not readily obtainable in the market, derecognition isprecluded to the extent of the amount of the asset that is subject to the call option because the entity hasretained control of the asset.

(i) A not readily obtainable asset subject to a put option written by an entity that is neither deeply in themoney nor deeply out of the money. If an entity transfers a financial asset that is not readily obtainable inthe market, and writes a put option that is not deeply out of the money, the entity neither retains nortransfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership because of the written put option. The entityretains control of the asset if the put option is sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from sellingthe asset, in which case the asset continues to be recognised to the extent of the transferor’s continuinginvolvement (see paragraph B3.2.9). The entity transfers control of the asset if the put option is notsufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling the asset, in which case the asset is derecognised.

(j) Assets subject to a fair value put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement. A transfer of afinancial asset that is subject only to a put or call option or a forward repurchase agreement that has anexercise or repurchase price equal to the fair value of the financial asset at the time of repurchase resultsin derecognition because of the transfer of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.

(k) Cash-settled call or put options. An entity evaluates the transfer of a financial asset that is subject to aput or call option or a forward repurchase agreement that will be settled net in cash to determine whetherit has retained or transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. If the entity has not

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201551A

retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, it determines whetherit has retained control of the transferred asset. That the put or the call or the forward repurchase agreementis settled net in cash does not automatically mean that the entity has transferred control (see paragraphsB3.2.9 and (g), (h) and (i) above).

(l) Removal of accounts provision. A removal of accounts provision is an unconditional repurchase (call)option that gives an entity the right to reclaim assets transferred subject to some restrictions. Providedthat such an option results in the entity neither retaining nor transferring substantially all the risks andrewards of ownership, it precludes derecognition only to the extent of the amount subject to repurchase(assuming that the transferee cannot sell the assets). For example, if the carrying amount and proceedsfrom the transfer of loan assets are Rs.100,000 and any individual loan could be called back but theaggregate amount of loans that could be repurchased could not exceed Rs.10,000, Rs.90,000 of the loanswould qualify for derecognition.

(m) Clean-up calls. An entity, which may be a transferor, that services transferred assets may hold a clean-upcall to purchase remaining transferred assets when the amount of outstanding assets falls to a specifiedlevel at which the cost of servicing those assets becomes burdensome in relation to the benefits ofservicing. Provided that such a clean-up call results in the entity neither retaining nor transferringsubstantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the transferee cannot sell the assets, it precludesderecognition only to the extent of the amount of the assets that is subject to the call option.

(n) Subordinated retained interests and credit guarantees. An entity may provide the transferee with creditenhancement by subordinating some or all of its interest retained in the transferred asset. Alternatively, anentity may provide the transferee with credit enhancement in the form of a credit guarantee that could beunlimited or limited to a specified amount. If the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards ofownership of the transferred asset, the asset continues to be recognised in its entirety. If the entity retainssome, but not substantially all, of the risks and rewards of ownership and has retained control, derecognitionis precluded to the extent of the amount of cash or other assets that the entity could be required to pay.

(o) Total return swaps. An entity may sell a financial asset to a transferee and enter into a total return swapwith the transferee, whereby all of the interest payment cash flows from the underlying asset are remittedto the entity in exchange for a fixed payment or variable rate payment and any increases or declines in thefair value of the underlying asset are absorbed by the entity. In such a case, derecognition of all of theasset is prohibited.

(p) Interest rate swaps. An entity may transfer to a transferee a fixed rate financial asset and enter into aninterest rate swap with the transferee to receive a fixed interest rate and pay a variable interest rate basedon a notional amount that is equal to the principal amount of the transferred financial asset. The interestrate swap does not preclude derecognition of the transferred asset provided the payments on the swapare not conditional on payments being made on the transferred asset.

(q) Amortising interest rate swaps. An entity may transfer to a transferee a fixed rate financial asset that ispaid off over time, and enter into an amortising interest rate swap with the transferee to receive a fixedinterest rate and pay a variable interest rate based on a notional amount. If the notional amount of theswap amortises so that it equals the principal amount of the transferred financial asset outstanding at anypoint in time, the swap would generally result in the entity retaining substantial prepayment risk, in whichcase the entity either continues to recognise all of the transferred asset or continues to recognise thetransferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement. Conversely, if the amortisation of the notionalamount of the swap is not linked to the principal amount outstanding of the transferred asset, such a swapwould not result in the entity retaining prepayment risk on the asset. Hence, it would not precludederecognition of the transferred asset provided the payments on the swap are not conditional on interestpayments being made on the transferred asset and the swap does not result in the entity retaining anyother significant risks and rewards of ownership on the transferred asset.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201552A

(r) Write-off. An entity has no reasonable expectations of recovering the contractual cash flows on a financialasset in its entirety or a portion thereof.

B3.2.17This paragraph illustrates the application of the continuing involvement approach when the entity’s continuinginvolvement is in a part of a financial asset.

Assume an entity has a portfolio of prepayable loans whose coupon and effective interest rate is 10 percent and whose principal amount and amortised cost is Rs.10,000. It enters into a transaction in which, inreturn for a payment of Rs.9,115, the transferee obtains the right to Rs.9,000 of any collections of principalplus interest thereon at 9.5 per cent. The entity retains rights to Rs.1,000 of any collections of principalplus interest thereon at 10 per cent, plus the excess spread of 0.5 per cent on the remaining Rs.9,000 ofprincipal. Collections from prepayments are allocated between the entity and the transferee proportionatelyin the ratio of 1:9, but any defaults are deducted from the entity’s interest of Rs.1,000 until that interest isexhausted. The fair value of the loans at the date of the transaction is Rs.10,100 and the fair value of theexcess spread of 0.5 per cent is Rs.40.

The entity determines that it has transferred some significant risks and rewards of ownership (for example,significant prepayment risk) but has also retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership (becauseof its subordinated retained interest) and has retained control. It therefore applies the continuinginvolvement approach.To apply this Standard, the entity analyses the transaction as (a) a retention of afully proportionate retained interest of Rs.1,000, plus (b) the subordination of that retained interest toprovide credit enhancement to the transferee for credit losses.

The entity calculates that Rs.9,090 (90% × Rs.10,100) of the consideration received of Rs.9,115 representsthe consideration for a fully proportionate 90 per cent share. The remainder of the consideration received(Rs.25) represents consideration received for subordinating its retained interest to provide creditenhancement to the transferee for credit losses. In addition, the excess spread of 0.5 per cent representsconsideration received for the credit enhancement. Accordingly, the total consideration received for thecredit enhancement is Rs.65 (Rs.25 + Rs.40).

The entity calculates the gain or loss on the sale of the 90 per cent share of cash flows. Assuming thatseparate fair values of the 90 per cent part transferred and the 10 per cent part retained are not available atthe date of the transfer, the entity allocates the carrying amount of the asset in accordance with paragraph3.2.14 of SLFRS 9 as follows:

Fair valuePercentageAllocatedcarrying amount

Portion transferred9,09090%9,000Portion retained 1,01010% 1,000Total10,10010,000

The entity computes its gain or loss on the sale of the 90 per cent share of the cash flows by deducting theallocated carrying amount of the portion transferred from the consideration received, ie Rs.90 (Rs.9,090 –Rs.9,000). The carrying amount of the portion retained by the entity is Rs.1,000.

In addition, the entity recognises the continuing involvement that results from the subordination of itsretained interest for credit losses. Accordingly, it recognises an asset of Rs.1,000 (the maximum amount ofthe cash flows it would not receive under the subordination), and an associated liability of Rs.1,065 (which

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201553A

is the maximum amount of the cash flows it would not receive under the subordination, ie Rs.1,000 plus thefair value of the subordination of Rs.65).The entity uses all of the above information to account for the transaction as follows:

DebitCredit

Original asset—9,000Asset recognised for subordination or the residual interest1,000—Asset for the consideration received in the form of excess spread40—Profit or loss (gain on transfer)—90Liability—1,065Cash received 9,115 —Total10,15510,155

Immediately following the transaction, the carrying amount of the asset is Rs.2,040 comprising Rs.1,000,representing the allocated cost of the portion retained, and Rs.1,040, representing the entity’s additionalcontinuing involvement from the subordination of its retained interest for credit losses (which includesthe excess spread of Rs.40).

In subsequent periods, the entity recognises the consideration received for the credit enhancement(Rs.65) on a time proportion basis, accrues interest on the recognised asset using the effective interestmethod and recognises any impairment losses on the recognised assets. As an example of the latter,assume that in the following year there is an impairment loss on the underlying loans of Rs.300. The entityreduces its recognised asset by Rs.600 (Rs.300 relating to its retained interest and Rs.300 relating to theadditional continuing involvement that arises from the subordination of its retained interest for impairmentlosses), and reduces its recognised liability by Rs.300. The net result is a charge to profit or loss forimpairment losses of Rs.300.

Derecognition of Financial Liabilities (Section 3.3)

B3.3.1A financial liability (or part of it) is extinguished when the debtor either:

(a) discharges the liability (or part of it) by paying the creditor, normally with cash, other financial assets,goods or services; or

(b) is legally released from primary responsibility for the liability (or part of it) either by process of law or bythe creditor. (If the debtor has given a guarantee this condition may still be met.)

B3.3.2If an issuer of a debt instrument repurchases that instrument, the debt is extinguished even if the issuer is amarket maker in that instrument or intends to resell it in the near term.

B3.3.3Payment to a third party, including a trust (sometimes called ‘in-substance defeasance’), does not, by itself,relieve the debtor of its primary obligation to the creditor, in the absence of legal release.

B3.3.4If a debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and notifies its creditor that the third party has assumed itsdebt obligation, the debtor does not derecognise the debt obligation unless the condition in paragraph B3.3.1(b)is met. If the debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and obtains a legal release from its creditor, thedebtor has extinguished the debt. However, if the debtor agrees to make payments on the debt to the third partyor direct to its original creditor, the debtor recognises a new debt obligation to the third party.

B3.3.5Although legal release, whether judicially or by the creditor, results in derecognition of a liability, the entity mayrecognise a new liability if the derecognition criteria in paragraphs 3.2.1–3.2.23 are not met for the financial assetstransferred. If those criteria are not met, the transferred assets are not derecognised, and the entity recognises anew liability relating to the transferred assets.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201554A

B3.3.6For the purpose of paragraph 3.3.2, the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of thecash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using theoriginal effective interest rate, is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of the remainingcash flows of the original financial liability. If an exchange of debt instruments or modification of terms isaccounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on theextinguishment. If the exchange or modification is not accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or feesincurred adjust the carrying amount of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modifiedliability.

B3.3.7In some cases, a creditor releases a debtor from its present obligation to make payments, but the debtor assumesa guarantee obligation to pay if the party assuming primary responsibility defaults. In these circumstances thedebtor:

(a) recognises a new financial liability based on the fair value of its obligation for the guarantee, and

(b) recognises a gain or loss based on the difference between (i) any proceeds paid and (ii) the carryingamount of the original financial liability less the fair value of the new financial liability.

Classification (Chapter 4)

Classification of Financial Assets (Section 4.1)

The Entity’s Business Model for Managing Financial Assets

B4.1.1Paragraph 4.1.1(a) requires an entity to classify financial assets on the basis of the entity’s business model formanaging the financial assets, unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies. An entity assesses whether its financial assetsmeet the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a) on the basis of the businessmodel as determined by the entity’s key management personnel (as defined in LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures).

B4.1.2An entity’s business model is determined at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are managedtogether to achieve a particular business objective. The entity’s business model does not depend on management’sintentions for an individual instrument. Accordingly, this condition is not an instrument-by-instrument approachto classification and should be determined on a higher level of aggregation. However, a single entity may havemore than one business model for managing its financial instruments. Consequently, classification need not bedetermined at the reporting entity level. For example, an entity may hold a portfolio of investments that itmanages in order to collect contractual cash flows and another portfolio of investments that it manages in orderto trade to realise fair value changes. Similarly, in some circumstances, it may be appropriate to separate aportfolio of financial assets into sub portfolios in order to reflect the level at which an entity manages thosefinancial assets. For example, that may be the case if an entity originates or purchases a portfolio of mortgageloans and manages some of the loans with an objective of collecting contractual cash flows and manages theother loans with an objective of selling them.

B4.1.2AAn entity’s business model refers to how an entity manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows.That is, the entity’s business model determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cashflows, selling financial assets or both. Consequently, this assessment is not performed on the basis of scenariosthat the entity does not reasonably expect to occur, such as so-called ‘worst case’ or ‘stress case’ scenarios. Forexample, if an entity expects that it will sell a particular portfolio of financial assets only in a stress case scenario,that scenario would not affect the entity’s assessment of the business model for those assets if the entityreasonably expects that such a scenario will not occur. If cash flows are realised in a way that is different from theentity’s expectations at the date that the entity assessed the business model (for example, if the entity sells moreor fewer financial assets than it expected when it classified the assets), that does not give rise to a prior perioderror in the entity’s financial statements (see LKAS 8) nor does it change the classification of the remaining

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201555A

financial assets held in that business model (ie ; those assets that the entity recognised in prior periods and stillholds) as long as the entity considered all relevant information that was available at the time that it made thebusiness model assessment. However, when an entity assesses the business model for newly originated ornewly purchased financial assets, it must consider information about how cash flows were realised in the past,along with all other relevant information.

B4.1.2BAn entity’s business model for managing financial assets is a matter of fact and not merely an assertion. It istypically observable through the activities that the entity undertakes to achieve the objective of the businessmodel. An entity will need to use judgement when it assesses its business model for managing financial assetsand that assessment is not determined by a single factor or activity. Instead, the entity must consider all relevantevidence that is available at the date of the assessment. Such relevant evidence includes, but is not limited to:

(a) how the performance of the business model and the financial assets held within that business model areevaluated and reported to the entity’s key management personnel;

(b) the risks that affect the performance of the business model (and the financial assets held within thatbusiness model) and, in particular, the way in which those risks are managed; and

(c) how managers of the business are compensated (for example, whether the compensation is based on thefair value of the assets managed or on the contractual cash flows collected).

A Business Model Whose Objective is to Hold Assets in Order to Collect Contractual Cash Flows

B4.1.2CFinancial assets that are held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collectcontractual cash flows are managed to realise cash flows by collecting contractual payments over the life of theinstrument. That is, the entity manages the assets held within the portfolio to collect those particular contractualcash flows (instead of managing the overall return on the portfolio by both holding and selling assets). Indetermining whether cash flows are going to be realised by collecting the financial assets’ contractual cashflows, it is necessary to consider the frequency, value and timing of sales in prior periods, the reasons for thosesales and expectations about future sales activity. However sales in themselves do not determine the businessmodel and therefore cannot be considered in isolation. Instead, information about past sales and expectationsabout future sales provide evidence related to how the entity’s stated objective for managing the financial assetsis achieved and, specifically, how cash flows are realised. An entity must consider information about past saleswithin the context of the reasons for those sales and the conditions that existed at that time as compared tocurrent conditions.

B4.1.3Although the objective of an entity’s business model may be to hold financial assets in order to collect contractualcash flows, the entity need not hold all of those instruments until maturity. Thus an entity’s business model canbe to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows even when sales of financial assets occur or areexpected to occur in the future.

B4.1.3AThe business model may be to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows even if the entity sells financialassets when there is an increase in the assets’ credit risk. To determine whether there has been an increase in theassets’ credit risk, the entity considers reasonable and supportable information, including forward lookinginformation. Irrespective of their frequency and value, sales due to an increase in the assets’ credit risk are notinconsistent with a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flowsbecause the credit quality of financial assets is relevant to the entity’s ability to collect contractual cash flows.Credit risk management activities that are aimed at minimising potential credit losses due to credit deteriorationare integral to such a business model. Selling a financial asset because it no longer meets the credit criteriaspecified in the entity’s documented investment policy is an example of a sale that has occurred due to anincrease in credit risk. However, in the absence of such a policy, the entity may demonstrate in other ways that thesale occurred due to an increase in credit risk.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201556A

B4.1.3BSales that occur for other reasons, such as sales made to manage credit concentration risk (without an increasein the assets’ credit risk), may also be consistent with a business model whose objective is to hold financialassets in order to collect contractual cash flows. In particular, such sales may be consistent with a businessmodel whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows if those sales areinfrequent (even if significant in value) or insignificant in value both individually and in aggregate (even iffrequent). If more than an infrequent number of such sales are made out of a portfolio and those sales are morethan insignificant in value (either individually or in aggregate), the entity needs to assess whether and how suchsales are consistent with an objective of collecting contractual cash flows. Whether a third party imposes therequirement to sell the financial assets, or that activity is at the entity’s discretion, is not relevant to thisassessment. An increase in the frequency or value of sales in a particular period is not necessarily inconsistentwith an objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, if an entity can explain thereasons for those sales and demonstrate why those sales do not reflect a change in the entity’s business model.In addition, sales may be consistent with the objective of holding financial assets in order to collect contractualcash flows if the sales are made close to the maturity of the financial assets and the proceeds from the salesapproximate the collection of the remaining contractual cash flows.

B4.1.4The following are examples of when the objective of an entity’s business model may be to hold financial assetsto collect the contractual cash flows. This list of examples is not exhaustive. Furthermore, the examples are notintended to discuss all factors that may be relevant to the assessment of the entity’s business model nor specifythe relative importance of the factors.

ExampleAnalysis

Example 1

An entity holds investments to collect theircontractual cash flows. The funding needs itsfinancially are predictable and the maturity of itsfinancial assets is matched to the entity’s estimatedfunding needs.

The entity performs credit risk management activitieswith the objective of minimising credit losses. In thepast, sales have typically occurred when the financialassets’ credit risk has increased such that the assetsno longer meet the credit criteria specified in theentity’s documented investment policy. In addition,infrequent sales have occurred as a result ofunanticipated funding needs.

Reports to key management personnel focus on thecredit quality of the financial assets and thecontractual return. The entity also monitors fair valuesof the financial assets, among other information.

Example 2

An entity’s business model is to purchase portfoliosof financial assets, such as loans. Those portfoliosmay or may not include financial assets that are creditimpaired.

Although the entity considers, among otherinformation, the financial assets’ fair values from aliquidity perspective (ie the cash amount that wouldbe realised if the entity needs to sell assets), theentity’s objective is to hold the financial assets inorder to collect the contractual cash flows. Saleswould not contradict that objective if they were inresponse to an increase in the assets’ credit risk, forexample if the assets no longer meet the credit criteriaspecified in the entity’s documented investmentpolicy. Infrequent sales resulting from unanticipatedfunding needs (eg in a stress case scenario) alsowould not contradict that objective, even if such salesare significant in value.

The objective of the entity’s business model is tohold the financial assets in order to collect thecontractual cash flows.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201557A

If payment on the loans is not made on a timely basis,the entity attempts to realise the contractual cash flowsthrough various means—for example, by contactingthe debtor by mail, telephone or other methods. Theentity’s objective is to collect the contractual cashflows and the entity does not manage any of the loansin this portfolio with an objective of realising cashflows by selling them.

In some cases, the entity enters into interest rate swapsto change the interest rate on particular financial assetsin a portfolio from a floating interest rate to a fixedinterest rate.

Example 3

An entity has a business model with the objective oforiginating loans to customers and subsequentlyselling those loans to a securitisation vehicle. Thesecuritisation vehicle issues instruments to investors.

The originating entity controls the securitisationvehicle and thus consolidates it.

The securitisation vehicle collects the contractualcash flows from the loans and passes them on to itsinvestors.

It is assumed for the purposes of this example that theloans continue to be recognised in the consolidatedstatement of financial position because they are notderecognised by the securitisation vehicle.

Example 4

A financial institution holds financial assets to meetliquidity needs in a ‘stress case’ scenario (eg, a run onthe bank’s deposits). The entity does not anticipateselling these assets except in such scenarios.

The entity monitors the credit quality of the financialassets and its objective in managing the financialassets is to collect the contractual cash flows. Theentity evaluates the performance of the assets on thebasis of interest revenue earned and credit lossesrealised.

However, the entity also monitors the fair value of thefinancial assets from a liquidity perspective to ensurethat the cash amount that would be realised if the

ExampleAnalysis

The same analysis would apply even if the entity doesnot expect to receive all of the contractual cash flows(eg some of the financial assets are credit impaired atinitial recognition).

Moreover, the fact that the entity enters intoderivatives to modify the cash flows of the portfoliodoes not in itself change the entity’s business model.

The consolidated group originated the loans with theobjective of holding them to collect the contractualcash flows.

However, the originating entity has an objective ofrealising cash flows on the loan portfolio by sellingthe loans to the securitisation vehicle, so for thepurposes of its separate financial statements it wouldnot be considered to be managing this portfolio inorder to collect the contractual cash flows.

The objective of the entity’s business model is tohold the financial assets to collect contractual cashflows.

The analysis would not change even if during aprevious stress case scenario the entity had salesthat were significant in value in order to meet itsliquidity needs. Similarly, recurring sales activity thatis insignificant in value is not inconsistent withholding financial assets to collect contractual cashflows.

In contrast, if an entity holds financial assets to meetits everyday liquidity needs and meeting thatobjective involves frequent sales that are significantin value, the objective of the entity’s business model

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201558A

ExampleAnalysis

entity needed to sell the assets in a stress case scenariowould be sufficient to meet the entity’s liquidity needs.Periodically, the entity makes sales that are insignificantin value to demonstrate liquidity.

is not to hold the financial assets to collect contractualcash flows.

Similarly, if the entity is required by its regulator toroutinely sell financial assets to demonstrate that theassets are liquid, and the value of the assets sold issignificant, the entity’s business model is not to holdfinancial assets to collect contractual cash flows.Whether a third party imposes the requirement to sellthe financial assets, or that activity is at the entity’sdiscretion, is not relevant to the analysis.

A Business Model Whose Objective is Achieved by both Collecting Contractual cash Flows and SellingFinancial Assets

B4.1.4AAn entity may hold financial assets in a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractualcash flows and selling financial assets. In this type of business model, the entity’s key management personnelhave made a decision that both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral toachieving the objective of the business model. There are various objectives that may be consistent with this typeof business model. For example, the objective of the business model may be to manage everyday liquidity needs,to maintain a particular interest yield profile or to match the duration of the financial assets to the duration of theliabilities that those assets are funding. To achieve such an objective, the entity will both collect contractual cashflows and sell financial assets.

B4.1.4BCompared to a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets to collect contractual cash flows, thisbusiness model will typically involve greater frequency and value of sales. This is because selling financialassets is integral to achieving the business model’s objective instead of being only incidental to it. However,there is no threshold for the frequency or value of sales that must occur in this business model because bothcollecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets are integral to achieving its objective.

B4.1.4CThe following are examples of when the objective of the entity’s business model may be achieved by bothcollecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This list of examples is not exhaustive. Furthermore,the examples are not intended to describe all the factors that may be relevant to the assessment of the entity’sbusiness model nor specify the relative importance of the factors.

ExampleAnalysis

Example 5

An entity anticipates capital expenditure in a few years.The entity invests its excess cash in short and long-term financial assets so that it can fund the expenditurewhen the need arises. Many of the financial assetshave contractual lives that exceed the entity’santicipated investment period.

The entity will hold financial assets to collect thecontractual cash flows and, when an opportunityarises, it will sell financial assets to re-invest the cashin financial assets with a higher return.

The objective of the business model is achieved byboth collecting contractual cash flows and sellingfinancial assets. The entity will make decisions on anongoing basis about whether collecting contractualcash flows or selling financial assets will maximisethe return on the portfolio until the need arises forthe invested cash.

In contrast, consider an entity that anticipates a cashoutflow in five years to fund capital expenditure andinvests excess cash in short-term financial assets.When the investments mature, the entity reinveststhe cash in new short-term financial assets. The entity

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201559A

Other Business Models

B4.1.5Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss if they are not held within a business modelwhose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objectiveis achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets (but see also paragraph 5.7.5).One business model that results in measurement at fair value through profit or loss is one in which an entitymanages the financial assets with the objective of realising cash flows through the sale of the assets. The entitymakes decisions based on the assets’ fair values and manages the assets to realise those fair values. In this case,the entity’s objective will typically result in active buying and selling. Even though the entity will collect

The managers responsible for the portfolio areremunerated based on the overall return generated bythe portfolio.

Example 6

A financial institution holds financial assets to meetits everyday liquidity needs. The entity seeks tominimise the costs of managing those liquidity needsand therefore actively manages the return on theportfolio. That return consists of collecting contractualpayments as well as gains and losses from the sale offinancial assets.

As a result, the entity holds financial assets to collectcontractual cash flows and sells financial assets toreinvest in higher yielding financial assets or to bettermatch the duration of its liabilities. In the past, thisstrategy has resulted in frequent sales activity andsuch sales have been significant in value. This activityis expected to continue in the future.

Example 7

An insurer holds financial assets in order to fundinsurance contract liabilities. The insurer uses theproceeds from the contractual cash flows on thefinancial assets to settle insurance contract liabilitiesas they come due. To ensure that the contractual cashflows from the financial assets are sufficient to settlethose liabilities, the insurer undertakes significantbuying and selling activity on a regular basis torebalance its portfolio of assets and to meet cash flowneeds as they arise.

maintains this strategy until the funds are needed, atwhich time the entity uses the proceeds from thematuring financial assets to fund the capitalexpenditure. Only sales that are insignificant in valueoccur before maturity (unless there is an increase incredit risk). The objective of this contrasting businessmodel is to hold financial assets to collect contractualcash flows.

The objective of the business model is to maximisethe return on the portfolio to meet everyday liquidityneeds and the entity achieves that objective by bothcollecting contractual cash flows and selling financialassets. In other words, both collecting contractualcash flows and selling financial assets are integral toachieving the business model’s objective.

The objective of the business model is to fund theinsurance contract liabilities. To achieve thisobjective, the entity collects contractual cash flowsas they come due and sells financial assets to maintainthe desired profile of the asset portfolio. Thus bothcollecting contractual cash flows and selling financialassets are integral to achieving the business model’sobjective.

ExampleAnalysis

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201560A

contractual cash flows while it holds the financial assets, the objective of such a business model is not achievedby both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. This is because the collection of contractualcash flows is not integral to achieving the business model’s objective; instead, it is incidental to it.

B4.1.6A portfolio of financial assets that is managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis (asdescribed in paragraph 4.2.2(b)) is neither held to collect contractual cash flows nor held both to collect contractualcash flows and to sell financial assets. The entity is primarily focused on fair value information and uses thatinformation to assess the assets’ performance and to make decisions. In addition, a portfolio of financial assetsthat meets the definition of held for trading is not held to collect contractual cash flows or held both to collectcontractual cash flows and to sell financial assets. For such portfolios, the collection of contractual cash flowsis only incidental to achieving the business model’s objective. Consequently, such portfolios of financial assetsmust be measured at fair value through profit or loss.

Contractual Cash Flows That are Solely Payments of Principal and Interest on thePrincipal Amount Outstanding

B4.1.7Paragraph 4.1.1(b) requires an entity to classify a financial on the basis of its contractual cash flow characteristicsif the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cashflows or within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows andselling financial assets, unless paragraph 4.1.5 applies. To do so, the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and4.1.2A(b) requires an entity to determine whether the asset’s contractual cash flows are solely payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

B4.1.7AContractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding areconsistent with a basic lending arrangement. In a basic lending arrangement, consideration for the time value ofmoney (see paragraphs B4.1.9A–B4.1.9E) and credit risk are typically the most significant elements of interest.However, in such an arrangement, interest can also include consideration for other basic lending risks (forexample, liquidity risk) and costs (for example, administrative costs) associated with holding the financial assetfor a particular period of time. In addition, interest can include a profit margin that is consistent with a basiclending arrangement. In extreme economic circumstances, interest can be negative if, for example, the holder of afinancial asset either explicitly or implicitly pays for the deposit of its money for a particular period of time (andthat fee exceeds the consideration that the holder receives for the time value of money, credit risk and other basiclending risks and costs). However, contractual terms that introduce exposure to risks or volatility in the contractualcash flows that is unrelated to a basic lending arrangement, such as exposure to changes in equity prices orcommodity prices, do not give rise to contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest onthe principal amount outstanding. An originated or a purchased financial asset can be a basic lending arrangementirrespective of whether it is a loan in its legal form.

B4.1.7BIn accordance with paragraph 4.1.3(a), principal is the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition.However that principal amount may change over the life of the financial asset (for example, if there are repaymentsof principal).

B4.1.8An entity shall assess whether contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest on theprincipal amount outstanding for the currency in which the financial asset is denominated.

B4.1.9Leverage is a contractual cash flow characteristic of some financial assets. Leverage increases the variability ofthe contractual cash flows with the result that they do not have the economic characteristics of interest. Stand-alone option, forward and swap contracts are examples of financial assets that include such leverage. Thus, suchcontracts do not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) and cannot be subsequently measuredat amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201561A

Consideration for the Time Value of Money

B4.1.9ATime value of money is the element of interest that provides consideration for only the passage of time. That is,the time value of money element does not provide consideration for other risks or costs associated with holdingthe financial asset. In order to assess whether the element provides consideration for only the passage of time,an entity applies judgement and considers relevant factors such as the currency in which the financial asset isdenominated and the period for which the interest rate is set.

B4.1.9BHowever, in some cases, the time value of money element may be modified (ie imperfect). That would be the case,for example, if a financial asset’s interest rate is periodically reset but the frequency of that reset does not matchthe tenor of the interest rate (for example, the interest rate resets every month to a one-year rate) or if a financialasset’s interest rate is periodically reset to an average of particular short- and long-term interest rates. In suchcases, an entity must assess the modification to determine whether the contractual cash flows represent solelypayments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. In some circumstances, the entity maybe able to make that determination by performing a qualitative assessment of the time value of money elementwhereas, in other circumstances, it may be necessary to perform a quantitative assessment.

B4.1.9CWhen assessing a modified time value of money element, the objective is to determine how different the contractual(undiscounted) cash flows could be from the (undiscounted) cash flows that would arise if the time value ofmoney element was not modified (the benchmark cash flows). For example, if the financial asset under assessmentcontains a variable interest rate that is reset every month to a one-year interest rate, the entity would comparethat financial asset to a financial instrument with identical contractual terms and the identical credit risk exceptthe variable interest rate is reset monthly to a one-month interest rate. If the modified time value of money elementcould result in contractual (undiscounted) cash flows that are significantly different from the (undiscounted)benchmark cash flows, the financial asset does not meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). Tomake this determination, the entity must consider the effect of the modified time value of money element in eachreporting period and cumulatively over the life of the financial instrument. The reason for the interest rate beingset in this way is not relevant to the analysis. If it is clear, with little or no analysis, whether the contractual(undiscounted) cash flows on the financial asset under the assessment could (or could not) be significantlydifferent from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows, an entity need not perform a detailed assessment.

B4.1.9DWhen assessing a modified time value of money element, an entity must consider factors that could affect futurecontractual cash flows. For example, if an entity is assessing a bond with a five-year term and the variable interestrate is reset every six months to a five-year rate, the entity cannot conclude that the contractual cash flows aresolely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding simply because the interest ratecurve at the time of the assessment is such that the difference between a five-year interest rate and a six-monthinterest rate is not significant. Instead, the entity must also consider whether the relationship between the five-year interest rate and the six-month interest rate could change over the life of the instrument such that thecontractual (undiscounted) cash flows over the life of the instrument could be significantly different from the(undiscounted) benchmark cash flows. However, an entity must consider only reasonably possible scenariosinstead of every possible scenario. If an entity concludes that the contractual (undiscounted) cash flows couldbe significantly different from the (undiscounted) benchmark cash flows, the financial asset does not meet thecondition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) and therefore cannot be measured at amortised cost or fair valuethrough other comprehensive income.

B4.1.9EIn some jurisdictions, the government or a regulatory authority sets interest rates. For example, such governmentregulation of interest rates may be part of a broad macroeconomic policy or it may be introduced to encourageentities to invest in a particular sector of the economy. In some of these cases, the objective of the time value ofmoney element is not to provide consideration for only the passage of time. However, despite paragraphsB4.1.9A–B4.1.9D, a regulated interest rate shall be considered a proxy for the time value of money element for thepurpose of applying the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) if that regulated interest rate providesconsideration that is broadly consistent with the passage of time and does not provide exposure to risks orvolatility in the contractual cash flows that are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201562A

Contractual Terms that Change the Timing or Amount of Contractual Cash Flows

B4.1.10If a financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows(for example, if the asset can be prepaid before maturity or its term can be extended), the entity must determinewhether the contractual cash flows that could arise over the life of the instrument due to that contractual term aresolely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. To make this determination, theentity must assess the contractual cash flows that could arise both before, and after, the change in contractualcash flows. The entity may also need to assess the nature of any contingent event (ie the trigger) that wouldchange the timing or amount of the contractual cash flows. While the nature of the contingent event in itself isnot a determinative factor in assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal andinterest, it may be an indicator. For example, compare a financial instrument with an interest rate that is reset to ahigher rate if the debtor misses a particular number of payments to a financial instrument with an interest rate thatis reset to a higher rate if a specified equity index reaches a particular level. It is more likely in the former case thatthe contractual cash flows over the life of the instrument will be solely payments of principal and interest on theprincipal amount outstanding because of the relationship between missed payments and an increase in creditrisk. (See also paragraph B4.1.18.)

B4.1.11The following are examples of contractual terms that result in contractual cash flows that are solely payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amount outstanding:

(a) a variable interest rate that consists of consideration for the time value of money, the credit risk associatedwith the principal amount outstanding during a particular period of time (the consideration for credit riskmay be determined at initial recognition only, and so may be fixed) and other basic lending risks andcosts, as well as a profit margin;

(b) a contractual term that permits the issuer (ie the debtor) to prepay a debt instrument or permits the holder(ie the creditor) to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturity and the prepayment amountsubstantially represents unpaid amounts of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding,which may include reasonable additional compensation for the early termination of the contract; and

(c) a contractual term that permits the issuer or the holder to extend the contractual term of a debt instrument(ie an extension option) and the terms of the extension option result in contractual cash flows during theextension period that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding,which may include reasonable additional compensation for the extension of the contract.

B4.1.12Despite paragraph B4.1.10, a financial asset that would otherwise meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and4.1.2A(b) but does not do so only as a result of a contractual term that permits (or requires) the issuer to prepaya debt instrument or permits (or requires) the holder to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturityis eligible to be measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (subject to meetingthe condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a)) if:

(a) the entity acquires or originates the financial asset at a premium or discount to the contractual par amount;

(b) the prepayment amount substantially represents the contractual par amount and accrued (but unpaid)contractual interest, which may include reasonable additional compensation for the early termination ofthe contract; and

(c) when the entity initially recognises the financial asset, the fair value of the prepayment feature is insignificant.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201563A

InstrumentAnalysis

Instrument A

Instrument A is a bond with a stated maturity date.Payments of principal and interest on the principalamount outstanding are linked to an inflation index ofthe currency in which the instrument is issued. Theinflation link is not leveraged and the principal isprotected.

Instrument B

Instrument B is a variable interest rate instrument witha stated maturity date that permits the borrower tochoose the market interest rate on an ongoing basis.For example, at each interest rate reset date, theborrower can choose to pay three-month LIBOR for athree-month term or one-month LIBOR for a one-month term.

The contractual cash flows are solely payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding. Linking payments of principal andinterest on the principal amount outstanding to anunleveraged inflation index resets the time value ofmoney to a current level. In other words, the interestrate on the instrument reflects ‘real’ interest. Thus,the interest amounts are consideration for the timevalue of money on the principal amount outstanding.

However, if the interest payments were indexed toanother variable such as the debtor’s performance(eg the debtor’s net income) or an equity index, thecontractual cash flows are not payments of principaland interest on the principal amount outstanding(unless the indexing to the debtor’s performanceresults in an adjustment that only compensates theholder for changes in the credit risk of the instrument,such that contractual cash flows are solely paymentsof principal and interest). That is because thecontractual cash flows reflect a return that isinconsistent with a basic lending arrangement (seeparagraph B4.1.7A).

The contractual cash flows are solely payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding as long as the interest paid over the lifeof the instrument reflects consideration for the timevalue of money, for the credit risk associated with theinstrument and for other basic lending risks and costs,as well as a profit margin (see paragraph B4.1.7A).The fact that the LIBOR interest rate is reset duringthe life of the instrument does not in itself disqualifythe instrument.

However, if the borrower is able to choose to pay aone-month interest rate that is reset every threemonths, the interest rate is reset with a frequencythat does not match the tenor of the interest rate.Consequently, the time value of money element ismodified.

Similarly, if an instrument has a contractual interestrate that is based on a term that can exceed theinstrument’s remaining life (for example, if aninstrument with a five-year maturity pays a variablerate that is reset periodically but always reflects afive-year maturity), the time value of money elementis modified. That is because the interest payable ineach period is disconnected from the interest period.

B4.1.13The following examples illustrate contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on theprincipal amount outstanding. This list of examples is not exhaustive.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201564A

InstrumentAnalysis

In such cases, the entity must qualitatively orquantitatively assess the contractual cash flowsagainst those on an instrument that is identical in allrespects except the tenor of the interest rate matchesthe interest period to determine if the cash flows aresolely payments of principal and interest on theprincipal amount outstanding. (But see paragraphB4.1.9E for guidance on regulated interest rates.)

For example, in assessing a bond with a five-yearterm that pays a variable rate that is reset every sixmonths but always reflects a five-year maturity, anentity considers the contractual cash flows on aninstrument that resets every six months to a six-monthinterest rate but is otherwise identical.

The same analysis would apply if the borrower isable to choose between the lender’s various publishedinterest rates (eg the borrower can choose betweenthe lender’s published one-month variable interestrate and the lender’s published three-month variableinterest rate).

The contractual cash flows of both:

(a) an instrument that has a fixed interest rate and

(b) an instrument that has a variable interest rate

are payments of principal and interest on the principalamount outstanding as long as the interest reflectsconsideration for the time value of money, for thecredit risk associated with the instrument during theterm of the instrument and for other basic lendingrisks and costs, as well as a profit margin. (Seeparagraph B4.1.7A)

Consequently, an instrument that is a combination of(a) and (b) (eg a bond with an interest rate cap) canhave cash flows that are solely payments of principaland interest on the principal amount outstanding.Such a contractual term may reduce cash flowvariability by setting a limit on a variable interest rate(eg an interest rate cap or floor) or increase the cashflow variability because a fixed rate becomes variable.

Instrument C

Instrument C is a bond with a stated maturity date andpays a variable market interest rate. That variableinterest rate is capped.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201565A

InstrumentAnalysis

The fact that a full recourse loan is collateralised doesnot in itself affect the analysis of whether thecontractual cash flows are solely payments of principaland interest on the principal amount outstanding.

The holder would analyse the contractual terms ofthe financial instrument to determine whether theygive rise to cash flows that are solely payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding and thus are consistent with a basiclending arrangement.

That analysis would not consider the payments thatarise only as a result of the national resolvingauthority’s power to impose losses on the holders ofInstrument E. That is because that power, and theresulting payments, are not contractual terms of thefinancial instrument.

In contrast, the contractual cash flows would not besolely payments of principal and interest on theprincipal amount outstanding if the contractual termsof the financial instrument permit or require the issueror another entity to impose losses on the holder (egby writing down the par amount or by converting theinstrument into a fixed number of the issuer’s ordinaryshares) as long as those contractual terms are genuine,even if the probability is remote that such a loss willbe imposed.

Instrument D

Instrument D is a full recourse loan and is secured bycollateral.

Instrument E

Instrument E is issued by a regulated bank and has astated maturity date. The instrument pays a fixedinterest rate and all contractual cash flows are non-discretionary.

However, the issuer is subject to legislation that permitsor requires a national resolving authority to imposelosses on holders of particular instruments, includingInstrument E, in particular circumstances. For example,the national resolving authority has the power to writedown the par amount of Instrument E or to convert itinto a fixed number of the issuer’s ordinary shares ifthe national resolving authority determines that theissuer is having severe financial difficulties, needsadditional regulatory capital or is ‘failing’.

InstrumentAnalysis

B4.1.14The following examples illustrate contractual cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest onthe principal amount outstanding. This list of examples is not exhaustive.

Instrument F

Instrument F is a bond that is convertible into a fixednumber of equity instruments of the issuer.

The holder would analyse the convertible bond in itsentirety.

The contractual cash flows are not payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding because they reflect a return that isinconsistent with a basic lending arrangement (seeparagraph B4.1.7A); ie the return is linked to the valueof the equity of the issuer.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201566A

InstrumentAnalysis

Instrument G

Instrument G is a loan that pays an inverse floatinginterest rate (ie the interest rate has an inverserelationship to market interest rates).

Instrument H

Instrument H is a perpetual instrument but the issuermay call the instrument at any point and pay the holderthe par amount plus accrued interest due.

Instrument H pays a market interest rate but paymentof interest cannot be made unless the issuer is able toremain solvent immediately afterwards.

Deferred interest does not accrue additional interest.

The contractual cash flows are not solely paymentsof principal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding.

The interest amounts are not consideration for thetime value of money on the principal amountoutstanding.

The contractual cash flows are not payments ofprincipal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding. That is because the issuer may berequired to defer interest payments and additionalinterest does not accrue on those deferred interestamounts. As a result, interest amounts are notconsideration for the time value of money on theprincipal amount outstanding.

If interest accrued on the deferred amounts, thecontractual cash flows could be payments of principaland interest on the principal amount outstanding.

The fact that Instrument H is perpetual does not initself mean that the contractual cash flows are notpayments of principal and interest on the principalamount outstanding. In effect, a perpetual instrumenthas continuous (multiple) extension options. Suchoptions may result in contractual cash flows that arepayments of principal and interest on the principalamount outstanding if interest payments aremandatory and must be paid in perpetuity.

Also, the fact that Instrument H is callable does notmean that the contractual cash flows are not paymentsof principal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding unless it is callable at an amount thatdoes not substantially reflect payment of outstandingprincipal and interest on that principal amountoutstanding. Even if the callable amount includes anamount that reasonably compensates the holder forthe early termination of the instrument, the contractualcash flows could be payments of principal and intereston the principal amount outstanding. (See alsoparagraph B4.1.12.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201567A

B4.1.15In some cases a financial asset may have contractual cash flows that are described as principal and interest butthose cash flows do not represent the payment of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding asdescribed in paragraphs 4.1.2(b), 4.1.2A(b) and 4.1.3 of this Standard.

B4.1.16This may be the case if the financial asset represents an investment in particular assets or cash flows and hencethe contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.For example, if the contractual terms stipulate that the financial asset’s cash flows increase as more automobilesuse a particular toll road, those contractual cash flows are inconsistent with a basic lending arrangement. As aresult, the instrument would not satisfy the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). This could be thecase when a creditor’s claim is limited to specified assets of the debtor or the cash flows from specified assets(for example, a ‘non-recourse’ financial asset).

B4.1.17However, the fact that a financial asset is non-recourse does not in itself necessarily preclude the financial assetfrom meeting the condition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). In such situations, the creditor is required toassess (‘look through to’) the particular underlying assets or cash flows to determine whether the contractualcash flows of the financial asset being classified are payments of principal and interest on the principal amountoutstanding. If the terms of the financial asset give rise to any other cash flows or limit the cash flows in amanner inconsistent with payments representing principal and interest, the financial asset does not meet thecondition in paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b). Whether the underlying assets are financial assets or non-financial assets does not in itself affect this assessment.

B4.1.18A contractual cash flow characteristic does not affect the classification of the financial asset if it could haveonly a de minimis effect on the contractual cash flows of the financial asset. To make this determination, anentity must consider the possible effect of the contractual cash flow characteristic in each reporting period andcumulatively over the life of the financial instrument. In addition, if a contractual cash flow characteristic couldhave an effect on the contractual cash flows that is more than de minimis (either in a single reporting period orcumulatively) but that cash flow characteristic is not genuine, it does not affect the classification of a financialasset. A cash flow characteristic is not genuine if it affects the instrument’s contractual cash flows only on theoccurrence of an event that is extremely rare, highly abnormal and very unlikely to occur.

B4.1.19In almost every lending transaction the creditor’s instrument is ranked relative to the instruments of thedebtor’s other creditors. An instrument that is subordinated to other instruments may have contractual cashflows that are payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding if the debtor’s non-payment is a breach of contract and the holder has a contractual right to unpaid amounts of principal andinterest on the principal amount outstanding even in the event of the debtor’s bankruptcy. For example, a tradereceivable that ranks its creditor as a general creditor would qualify as having payments of principal andinterest on the principal amount outstanding. This is the case even if the debtor issued loans that are collateralised,which in the event of bankruptcy would give that loan holder priority over the claims of the general creditor inrespect of the collateral but does not affect the contractual right of the general creditor to unpaid principal andother amounts due.

Contractually Linked Instruments

B4.1.20In some types of transactions, an issuer may prioritise payments to the holders of financial assets usingmultiple contractually linked instruments that create concentrations of credit risk (tranches). Each tranche hasa subordination ranking that specifies the order in which any cash flows generated by the issuer are allocatedto the tranche. In such situations, the holders of a tranche have the right to payments of principal and intereston the principal amount outstanding only if the issuer generates sufficient cash flows to satisfy higher-rankingtranches.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201568A

B4.1.21In such transactions, a tranche has cash flow characteristics that are payments of principal and interest on theprincipal amount outstanding only if:

(a) the contractual terms of the tranche being assessed for classification (without looking through to theunderlying pool of financial instruments) give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal andinterest on the principal amount outstanding (eg. the interest rate on the tranche is not linked to acommodity index);

(b) the underlying pool of financial instruments has the cash flow characteristics set out in paragraphsB4.1.23 and B4.1.24; and

(c) the exposure to credit risk in the underlying pool of financial instruments inherent in the tranche is equalto or lower than the exposure to credit risk of the underlying pool of financial instruments (for example,the credit rating of the tranche being assessed for classification is equal to or higher than the credit ratingthat would apply to a single tranche that funded the underlying pool of financial instruments).

B4.1.22An entity must look through until it can identify the underlying pool of instruments that are creating (insteadof passing through) the cash flows. This is the underlying pool of financial instruments.

B4.1.23The underlying pool must contain one or more instruments that have contractual cash flows that are solelypayments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

B4.1.24The underlying pool of instruments may also include instruments that:

(a) reduce the cash flow variability of the instruments in paragraph B4.1.23 and, when combined with theinstruments in paragraph B4.1.23, result in cash flows that are solely payments of principal and intereston the principal amount outstanding (eg. an interest rate cap or floor or a contract that reduces the creditrisk on some or all of the instruments in paragraph B4.1.23); or

(b) align the cash flows of the tranches with the cash flows of the pool of underlying instruments in paragraphB4.1.23 to address differences in and only in:

(i) whether the interest rate is fixed or floating;

(ii) the currency in which the cash flows are denominated, including inflation in that currency; or

(iii) the timing of the cash flows.

B4.1.25If any instrument in the pool does not meet the conditions in either paragraph B4.1.23 or paragraph B4.1.24, thecondition in paragraph B4.1.21(b) is not met. In performing this assessment, a detailed instrument-by-instrumentanalysis of the pool may not be necessary. However, an entity must use judgement and perform sufficientanalysis to determine whether the instruments in the pool meet the conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23–B4.1.24.(See also paragraph B4.1.18 for guidance on contractual cash flow characteristics that have only a de minimiseffect.)

B4.1.26If the holder cannot assess the conditions in paragraph B4.1.21 at initial recognition, the tranche must bemeasured at fair value through profit or loss. If the underlying pool of instruments can change after initialrecognition in such a way that the pool may not meet the conditions in paragraphs B4.1.23–B4.1.24, the tranchedoes not meet the conditions in paragraph B4.1.21 and must be measured at fair value through profit or loss.However, if the underlying pool includes instruments that are collateralised by assets that do not meet theconditions in paragraphs B4.1.23–B4.1.24, the ability to take possession of such assets shall be disregarded forthe purposes of applying this paragraph unless the entity acquired the tranche with the intention of controllingthe collateral.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201569A

Option to Designate a Financial Asset or Financial Liability as at Fair Value through Profitor Loss (Sections 4.1 and 4.2)

B4.1.27Subject to the conditions in paragraphs 4.1.5 and 4.2.2, this Standard allows an entity to designate a financialasset, a financial liability, or a group of financial instruments (financial assets, financial liabilities or both) as atfair value through profit or loss provided that doing so results in more relevant information.

B4.1.28The decision of an entity to designate a financial asset or financial liability as at fair value through profit or lossis similar to an accounting policy choice (although, unlike an accounting policy choice, it is not required to beapplied consistently to all similar transactions). When an entity has such a choice, paragraph 14(b) of LKAS 8requires the chosen policy to result in the financial statements providing reliable and more relevant informationabout the effects of transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position, financialperformance or cash flows. For example, in the case of designation of a financial liability as at fair value throughprofit or loss, paragraph 4.2.2 sets out the two circumstances when the requirement for more relevant informationwill be met. Accordingly, to choose such designation in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2, the entity needs todemonstrate that it falls within one (or both) of these two circumstances.

Designation Eliminates or Significantly Reduces an Accounting Mismatch

B4.1.29Measurement of a financial asset or financial liability and classification unrecognized changes in its value aredetermined by the item’s classification and whether the item is part of a designated hedging relationship. Thoserequirements can create a measurement or recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accountingmismatch’) when, for example, in the absence of designation as at fair value through profit or loss, a financialasset would be classified as subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss and a liability the entityconsiders related would be subsequently measured at amortised cost (with changes in fair value not recognised).In such circumstances, an entity may conclude that its financial statements would provide more relevantinformation if both the asset and the liability were measured as at fair value through profit or loss.

B4.1.30The following examples show when this condition could be met. In all cases, an entity may use this conditionto designate financial assets or financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss only if it meets theprinciple in paragraph 4.1.5 or 4.2.2(a):

(a) an entity has liabilities under insurance contracts whose measurement incorporates current information(as permitted by paragraph 24 of SLFRS 4) and financial assets that it considers to be related and thatwould otherwise be measured at either fair value through other comprehensive income or amortisedcost.

(b) an entity has financial assets, financial liabilities or both that share a risk, such as interest rate risk, andthat gives rise to opposite changes in fair value that tend to offset each other. However, only some ofthe instruments would be measured at fair value through profit or loss (for example, those that arederivatives, or are classified as held for trading). It may also be the case that the requirements for hedgeaccounting are not met because, for example, the requirements for hedge effectiveness in paragraph6.4.1 are not met.

(c) an entity has financial assets, financial liabilities or both that share a risk, such as interest rate risk, thatgives rise to opposite changes in fair value that tend to offset each other and none of the financialassets or financial liabilities qualifies for designation as a hedging instrument because they are notmeasured at fair value through profit or loss. Furthermore, in the absence of hedge accounting there isa significant inconsistency in the recognition of gains and losses. For example, the entity has financeda specified group of loans by issuing traded bonds whose changes in fair value tend to offset eachother. If, in addition, the entity regularly buys and sells the bonds but rarely, if ever, buys and sells theloans, reporting both the loans and the bonds at fair value through profit or loss eliminates theinconsistency in the timing of the recognition of the gains and losses that would otherwise result frommeasuring them both at amortised cost and recognising a gain or loss each time a bond is repurchased.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201570A

B4.1.31In cases such as those described in the preceding paragraph, to designate, at initial recognition, the financialassets and financial liabilities not otherwise so measured as at fair value through profit or loss may eliminate orsignificantly reduce the measurement or recognition inconsistency and produce more relevant information. Forpractical purposes, the entity need not enter into all of the assets and liabilities giving rise to the measurementor recognition inconsistency at exactly the same time. A reasonable delay is permitted provided that eachtransaction is designated as at fair value through profit or loss at its initial recognition and, at that time, anyremaining transactions are expected to occur.

B4.1.32It would not be acceptable to designate only some of the financial assets and financial liabilities giving rise tothe inconsistency as at fair value through profit or loss if to do so would not eliminate or significantly reducethe inconsistency and would therefore not result in more relevant information. However, it would be acceptableto designate only some of a number of similar financial assets or similar financial liabilities if doing so achievesa significant reduction (and possibly a greater reduction than other allowable designations) in the inconsistency.For example, assume an entity has a number of similar financial liabilities that sum to Rs.100 and a number ofsimilar financial assets that sum to Rs.50 but are measured on a different basis. The entity may significantlyreduce the measurement inconsistency by designating at initial recognition all of the assets but only some ofthe liabilities (for example, individual liabilities with a combined total of Rs.45) as at fair value through profit orloss. However, because designation as at fair value through profit or loss can be applied only to the whole ofa financial instrument, the entity in this example must designate one or more liabilities in their entirety. It couldnot designate either a component of a liability (eg. changes in value attributable to only one risk, such aschanges in a benchmark interest rate) or a proportion (ie percentage) of a liability.

A Group of Financial Liabilities or Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities is Managed and its Performanceis Evaluated on a Fair Value Basis

B4.1.33An entity may manage and evaluate the performance of a group of financial liabilities or financial assets andfinancial liabilities in such a way that measuring that group at fair value through profit or loss results in morerelevant information. The focus in this instance is on the way the entity manages and evaluates performance,instead of on the nature of its financial instruments.

B4.1.34For example, an entity may use this condition to designate financial liabilities as at fair value through profit orloss if it meets the principle in paragraph 4.2.2(b) and the entity has financial assets and financial liabilities thatshare one or more risks and those risks are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with adocumented policy of asset and liability management. An example could be an entity that has issued ‘structuredproducts’ containing multiple embedded derivatives and manages the resulting risks on a fair value basis usinga mix of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.

B4.1.35As noted above, this condition relies on the way the entity manages and evaluates performance of the groupof financial instruments under consideration. Accordingly, (subject to the requirement of designation at initialrecognition) an entity that designates financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss on the basis ofthis condition shall so designate all eligible financial liabilities that are managed and evaluated together.

B4.1.36Documentation of the entity’s strategy need not be extensive but should be sufficient to demonstrate compliancewith paragraph 4.2.2(b). Such documentation is not required for each individual item, but may be on a portfoliobasis. For example, if the performance management system for a Department—as approved by the entity’s keymanagement personnel—clearly demonstrates that its performance is evaluated on this basis, no furtherdocumentation is required to demonstrate compliance with paragraph 4.2.2(b).

Embedded Derivatives (Section 4.3)

B4.3.1When an entity becomes a party to a hybrid contract with a host that is not an asset within the scope of thisStandard, paragraph 4.3.3 requires the entity to identify any embedded derivative, assess whether it is requiredto be separated from the host contract and, for those that are required to be separated, measure the derivativesat fair value at initial recognition and subsequently at fair value through profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201571A

B4.3.2If a host contract has no stated or predetermined maturity and represents a residual interest in the net assets ofan entity, then its economic characteristics and risks are those of an equity instrument, and an embeddedderivative would need to possess equity characteristics related to the same entity to be regarded as closelyrelated. If the host contract is not an equity instrument and meets the definition of a financial instrument, thenits economic characteristics and risks are those of a debt instrument.

B4.3.3An embedded non-option derivative (such as an embedded forward or swap) is separated from its host contracton the basis of its stated or implied substantive terms, so as to result in it having a fair value of zero at initialrecognition. An embedded option-based derivative (such as an embedded put, call, cap, floor or swaption) isseparated from its host contract on the basis of the stated terms of the option feature. The initial carryingamount of the host instrument is the residual amount after separating the embedded derivative.

B4.3.4Generally, multiple embedded derivatives in a single hybrid contract are treated as a single compound embeddedderivative. However, embedded derivatives that are classified as equity (see LKAS 32) are accounted forseparately from those classified as assets or liabilities. In addition, if a hybrid contract has more than oneembedded derivative and those derivatives relate to different risk exposures and are readily separable andindependent of each other, they are accounted for separately from each other.

B4.3.5The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are not closely related to the host contract(paragraph 4.3.3(a)) in the following examples. In these examples, assuming the conditions in paragraph 4.3.3(b)and (c) are met, an entity accounts for the embedded derivative separately from the host contract.

(a) A put option embedded in an instrument that enables the holder to require the issuer to reacquire theinstrument for an amount of cash or other assets that varies on the basis of the change in an equity orcommodity price or index is not closely related to a host debt instrument.

(b) An option or automatic provision to extend the remaining term to maturity of a debt instrument is notclosely related to the host debt instrument unless there is a concurrent adjustment to the approximatecurrent market rate of interest at the time of the extension. If an entity issues a debt instrument and theholder of that debt instrument writes a call option on the debt instrument to a third party, the issuerregards the call option as extending the term to maturity of the debt instrument provided the issuer canbe required to participate in or facilitate the remarketing of the debt instrument as a result of the calloption being exercised.

(c) Equity-indexed interest or principal payments embedded in a host debt instrument or insurance contract—by which the amount of interest or principal is indexed to the value of equity instruments—are notclosely related to the host instrument because the risks inherent in the host and the embedded derivativeare dissimilar.

(d) Commodity-indexed interest or principal payments embedded in a host debt instrument or insurancecontract—by which the amount of interest or principal is indexed to the price of a commodity (such asgold)—are not closely related to the host instrument because the risks inherent in the host and theembedded derivative are dissimilar.

(e) A call, put, or prepayment option embedded in a host debt contract or host insurance contract is notclosely related to the host contract unless:

(i) the option’s exercise price is approximately equal on each exercise date to the amortised cost of thehost debt instrument or the carrying amount of the host insurance contract; or

(ii) the exercise price of a prepayment option reimburses the lender for an amount up to the approximatepresent value of lost interest for the remaining term of the host contract. Lost interest is theproduct of the principal amount prepaid multiplied by the interest rate differential. The interest rate

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201572A

differential is the excess of the effective interest rate of the host contract over the effective interestrate the entity would receive at the prepayment date if it reinvested the principal amount prepaid ina similar contract for the remaining term of the host contract.

The assessment of whether the call or put option is closely related to the host debt contract ismade before separating the equity element of a convertible debt instrument in accordance withLKAS 32.

(f) Credit derivatives that are embedded in a host debt instrument and allow one party (the ‘beneficiary’) totransfer the credit risk of a particular reference asset, which it may not own, to another party (the‘guarantor’) are not closely related to the host debt instrument. Such credit derivatives allow the guarantorto assume the credit risk associated with the reference asset without directly owning it.

B4.3.6An example of a hybrid contract is a financial instrument that gives the holder a right to put the financialinstrument back to the issuer in exchange for an amount of cash or other financial assets that varies on the basisof the change in an equity or commodity index that may increase or decrease (a ‘puttable instrument’). Unlessthe issuer on initial recognition designates the puttable instrument as a financial liability at fair value throughprofit or loss, it is required to separate an embedded derivative (ie the indexed principal payment) underparagraph 4.3.3 because the host contract is a debt instrument under paragraph B4.3.2 and the indexed principalpayment is not closely related to a host debt instrument under paragraph B4.3.5(a). Because the principalpayment can increase and decrease, the embedded derivative is a non-option derivative whose value is indexedto the underlying variable.

B4.3.7In the case of a puttable instrument that can be put back at any time for cash equal to a proportionate share ofthe net asset value of an entity (such as units of an open-ended mutual fund or some unit-linked investmentproducts), the effect of separating an embedded derivative and accounting for each component is to measurethe hybrid contract at the redemption amount that is payable at the end of the reporting period if the holderexercised its right to put the instrument back to the issuer.

B4.3.8The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are closely related to the economiccharacteristics and risks of the host contract in the following examples. In these examples, an entity does notaccount for the embedded derivative separately from the host contract.

(a) An embedded derivative in which the underlying is an interest rate or interest rate index that can changethe amount of interest that would otherwise be paid or received on an interest-bearing host debt contractor insurance contract is closely related to the host contract unless the hybrid contract can be settled insuch a way that the holder would not recover substantially all of its recognised investment or theembedded derivative could at least double the holder’s initial rate of return on the host contract andcould result in a rate of return that is at least twice what the market return would be for a contract with thesame terms as the host contract.

(b) An embedded floor or cap on the interest rate on a debt contract or insurance contract is closely relatedto the host contract, provided the cap is at or above the market rate of interest and the floor is at or belowthe market rate of interest when the contract is issued, and the cap or floor is not leveraged in relation tothe host contract. Similarly, provisions included in a contract to purchase or sell an asset (eg. a commodity)that establish a cap and a floor on the price to be paid or received for the asset are closely related to thehost contract if both the cap and floor were out of the money at inception and are not leveraged.

(c) An embedded foreign currency derivative that provides a stream of principal or interest payments thatare denominated in a foreign currency and is embedded in a host debt instrument (for example, a dualcurrency bond) is closely related to the host debt instrument. Such a derivative is not separated from thehost instrument because LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates requires foreigncurrency gains and losses on monetary items to be recognised in profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201573A

(d) An embedded foreign currency derivative in a host contract that is an insurance contract or not afinancial instrument (such as a contract for the purchase or sale of a non-financial item where the priceis denominated in a foreign currency) is closely related to the host contract provided it is not leveraged,does not contain an option feature, and requires payments denominated in one of the following currencies:

(i) the functional currency of any substantial party to that contract;

(ii) the currency in which the price of the related good or service that is acquired or delivered isroutinely denominated in commercial transactions around the world (such as the US dollar forcrude oil transactions); or

(iii) a currency that is commonly used in contracts to purchase or sell non-financial items in theeconomic environment in which the transaction takes place (eg a relatively stable and liquidcurrency that is commonly used in local business transactions or external trade).

(e) An embedded prepayment option in an interest-only or principal-only strip is closely related to the hostcontract provided the host contract (i) initially resulted from separating the right to receive contractualcash flows of a financial instrument that, in and of itself, did not contain an embedded derivative, and (ii)does not contain any terms not present in the original host debt contract.

(f) An embedded derivative in a host lease contract is closely related to the host contract if the embeddedderivative is (i) an inflation-related index such as an index of lease payments to a consumer price index(provided that the lease is not leveraged and the index relates to inflation in the entity’s own economicenvironment), (ii) contingent rentals based on related sales or (iii) contingent rentals based on variableinterest rates.

(g) A unit-linking feature embedded in a host financial instrument or host insurance contract is closelyrelated to the host instrument or host contract if the unit-denominated payments are measured at currentunit values that reflect the fair values of the assets of the fund. A unit-linking feature is a contractual termthat requires payments denominated in units of an internal or external investment fund.

(h) A derivative embedded in an insurance contract is closely related to the host insurance contract if theembedded derivative and host insurance contract are so interdependent that an entity cannot measurethe embedded derivative separately (ie without considering the host contract).

Instruments Containing Embedded Derivatives

B4.3.9As noted in paragraph B4.3.1, when an entity becomes a party to a hybrid contract with a host that is not anasset within the scope of this Standard and with one or more embedded derivatives, paragraph 4.3.3 requiresthe entity to identify any such embedded derivative, assess whether it is required to be separated from the hostcontract and, for those that are required to be separated, measure the derivatives at fair value at initial recognitionand subsequently. These requirements can be more complex, or result in less reliable measures, than measuringthe entire instrument at fair value through profit or loss. For that reason this Standard permits the entire hybridcontract to be designated as at fair value through profit or loss.

B4.3.10Such designation may be used whether paragraph 4.3.3 requires the embedded derivatives to be separated fromthe host contract or prohibits such separation. However, paragraph 4.3.5 would not justify designating thehybrid contract as at fair value through profit or loss in the cases set out in paragraph 4.3.5(a) and (b) becausedoing so would not reduce complexity or increase reliability.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201574A

Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives

B4.3.11In accordance with paragraph 4.3.3, an entity shall assess whether an embedded derivative is required to beseparated from the host contract and accounted for as a derivative when the entity first becomes a party to thecontract. Subsequent reassessment is prohibited unless there is a change in the terms of the contract thatsignificantly modifies the cash flows that otherwise would be required under the contract, in which casereassessment is required. An entity determines whether a modification to cash flows is significant by consideringthe extent to which the expected future cash flows associated with the embedded derivative, the host contractor both have changed and whether the change is significant relative to the previously expected cash flows onthe contract.

B4.3.12Paragraph B4.3.11 does not apply to embedded derivatives in contracts acquired in:

(a) a business combination (as defined in SLFRS 3 Business Combinations);

(b) a combination of entities or businesses under common control as described in paragraphs B1–B4 ofSLFRS 3; or

(c) the formation of a joint venture as defined in SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements

or their possible reassessment at the date of acquisition.3

Reclassification of Financial Assets (Section 4.4)

Reclassification of Financial Assets

B4.4.1Paragraph 4.4.1 requires an entity to reclassify financial assets if the entity changes its business model formanaging those financial assets. Such changes are expected to be very infrequent. Such changes are determinedby the entity’s senior management as a result of external or internal changes and must be significant to theentity’s operations and demonstrable to external parties. Accordingly, a change in an entity’s business modelwill occur only when an entity either begins or ceases to perform an activity that is significant to its operations;for example, when the entity has acquired, disposed of or terminated a business line. Examples of a change inbusiness model include the following:

(a) An entity has a portfolio of commercial loans that it holds to sell in the short term. The entity acquires acompany that manages commercial loans and has a business model that holds the loans in order tocollect the contractual cash flows. The portfolio of commercial loans is no longer for sale, and theportfolio is now managed together with the acquired commercial loans and all are held to collect thecontractual cash flows.

(b) A financial services firm decides to shut down its retail mortgage business. That business no longeraccepts new business and the financial services firm is actively marketing its mortgage loan portfolio forsale.

B4.4.2A change in the objective of the entity’s business model must be effected before the reclassification date. Forexample, if a financial services firm decides on 15th February to shut down its retail mortgage business andhence must reclassify all affected financial assets on 1st April (ie the first day of the entity’s next reportingperiod), the entity must not accept new retail mortgage business or otherwise engage in activities consistentwith its former business model after 15th February.

3 SLFRS 3 addresses the acquisition of contracts with embedded derivtives in a business combination.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201575A

B 4.4.3The following are not changes in business model:

(a) a change in intention related to particular financial assets (even in circumstances of significant changesin market conditions).

(b) the temporary disappearance of a particular market for financial assets.

(c) a transfer of financial assets between parts of the entity with different business models.

Measurement (Chapter 5)

Initial Measurement (Section 5.1)

B5.1.1The fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transaction price (ie the fair value ofthe consideration given or received, see also paragraph B5.1.2A and SLFRS 13). However, if part of theconsideration given or received is for something other than the financial instrument, an entity shall measure thefair value of the financial instrument. For example, the fair value of a long-term loan or receivable that carries nointerest can be measured as the present value of all future cash receipts discounted using the prevailing marketrate(s) of interest for a similar instrument (similar as to currency, term, type of interest rate and other factors)with a similar credit rating. Any additional amount lent is an expense or a reduction of income unless it qualifiesfor recognition as some other type of asset.

B5.1.2If an entity originates a loan that bears an off-market interest rate (eg 5 per cent when the market rate for similarloans is 8 per cent), and receives an upfront fee as compensation, the entity recognises the loan at its fair value,ie net of the fee it receives.

B5.1.2AThe best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally the transactionprice (ie the fair value of the consideration given or received, see also SLFRS 13). If an entity determines that thefair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price as mentioned in paragraph 5.1.1A, the entityshall account for that instrument at that date as follows:

(a) at the measurement required by paragraph 5.1.1 if that fair value is evidenced by a quoted price in anactive market for an identical asset or liability (ie a Level 1 input) or based on a valuation technique thatuses only data from observable markets. An entity shall recognise the difference between the fair valueat initial recognition and the transaction price as a gain or loss.

(b) in all other cases, at the measurement required by paragraph 5.1.1, adjusted to defer the differencebetween the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price. After initial recognition, the entityshall recognise that deferred difference as a gain or loss only to the extent that it arises from a change ina factor (including time) that market participants would take into account when pricing the asset orliability.

Subsequent Measurement (Sections 5.2 and 5.3)

B5.2.1If a financial instrument that was previously recognised as a financial asset is measured at fair value throughprofit or loss and its fair value decreases below zero, it is a financial liability measured in accordance withparagraph 4.2.1. However, hybrid contracts with hosts that are assets within the scope of this Standard arealways measured in accordance with paragraph 4.3.2.

B5.2.2The following example illustrates the accounting for transaction costs on the initial and subsequent measurementof a financial asset measured at fair value with changes through other comprehensive income in accordancewith either paragraph 5.7.5 or 4.1.2A. An entity acquires a financial asset for Rs.100 plus a purchase commission

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201576A

of Rs.2. Initially, the entity recognises the asset at Rs.102. The reporting period ends one day later, when thequoted market price of the asset is Rs.100. If the asset were sold, a commission of Rs.3 would be paid. On thatdate, the entity measures the asset at Rs.100 (without regard to the possible commission on sale) and recognisesa loss of Rs.2 in other comprehensive income. If the financial asset is measured at fair value through othercomprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A, the transaction costs are amortised to profit orloss using the effective interest method.

B5.2.2AThe subsequent measurement of a financial asset or financial liability and the subsequent recognition of gainsand losses described in paragraph B5.1.2A shall be consistent with the requirements of this Standard.

Investments in Equity iInstruments and Contracts on Those Investments

B5.2.3All investments in equity instruments and contracts on those instruments must be measured at fair value.However, in limited circumstances, cost may be an appropriate estimate of fair value. That may be the case ifinsufficient more recent information is available to measure fair value, or if there is a wide range of possible fairvalue measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range.

B5.2.4Indicators that cost might not be representative of fair value include:

(a) a significant change in the performance of the investee compared with budgets, plans or milestones.

(b) changes in expectation that the investee’s technical product milestones will be achieved.

(c) a significant change in the market for the investee’s equity or its products or potential products.

(d) a significant change in the global economy or the economic environment in which the investee operates.

(e) a significant change in the performance of comparable entities, or in the valuations implied by theoverall market.

(f) internal matters of the investee such as fraud, commercial disputes, litigation, changes in managementor strategy.

(g) evidence from external transactions in the investee’s equity, either by the investee (such as a fresh issueof equity), or by transfers of equity instruments between third parties.

B5.2.5The list in paragraph B5.2.4 is not exhaustive. An entity shall use all information about the performance andoperations of the investee that becomes available after the date of initial recognition. To the extent that anysuch relevant factors exist, they may indicate that cost might not be representative of fair value. In such cases,the entity must measure fair value.

B5.2.6Cost is never the best estimate of fair value for investments in quoted equity instruments (or contracts onquoted equity instruments).

Amortised Cost Measurement (Section 5.4)

Effective Interest Method

B5.4.1In applying the effective interest method, an entity identifies fees that are an integral part of the effectiveinterest rate of a financial instrument. The description of fees for financial services may not be indicative of thenature and substance of the services provided. Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of afinancial instrument are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate, unless the financial instrument is

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201577A

measured at fair value, with the change in fair value being recognised in profit or loss. In those cases, the feesare recognised as revenue or expense when the instrument is initially recognised.

B5.4.2Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument include:

(a) origination fees received by the entity relating to the creation or acquisition of a financial asset. Suchfees may include compensation for activities such as evaluating the borrower’s financial condition,evaluating and recording guarantees, collateral and other security arrangements, negotiating the termsof the instrument, preparing and processing documents and closing the transaction. These fees are anintegral part of generating an involvement with the resulting financial instrument.

(b) commitment fees received by the entity to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured inaccordance with paragraph 4.2.1(a) and it is probable that the entity will enter into a specific lendingarrangement. These fees are regarded as compensation for an ongoing involvement with the acquisitionof a financial instrument. If the commitment expires without the entity making the loan, the fee is recognisedas revenue on expiry.

(c) origination fees paid on issuing financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. These fees are an integralpart of generating an involvement with a financial liability. An entity distinguishes fees and costs thatare an integral part of the effective interest rate for the financial liability from origination fees andtransaction costs relating to the right to provide services, such as investment management services.

B5.4.3Fees that are not an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument and are accounted for inaccordance with SLFRS 15 include:

(a) fees charged for servicing a loan;

(b) commitment fees to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured in accordance withparagraph 4.2.1(a) and it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into; and

(c) loan syndication fees received by an entity that arranges a loan and retains no part of the loan packagefor itself (or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for comparable risk as other participants).

B5.4.4When applying the effective interest method, an entity generally amortises any fees, points paid or received,transaction costs and other premiums or discounts that are included in the calculation of the effective interestrate over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, a shorter period is used if this is the period towhich the fees, points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate. This will be the casewhen the variable to which the fees, points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate isrepriced to market rates before the expected maturity of the financial instrument. In such a case, the appropriateamortisation period is the period to the next such repricing date. For example, if a premium or discount on afloating-rate financial instrument reflects the interest that has accrued on that financial instrument since theinterest was last paid, or changes in the market rates since the floating interest rate was reset to the market rates,it will be amortised to the next date when the floating interest is reset to market rates. This is because thepremium or discount relates to the period to the next interest reset date because, at that date, the variable towhich the premium or discount relates (ie interest rates) is reset to the market rates. If, however, the premium ordiscount results from a change in the credit spread over the floating rate specified in the financial instrument,or other variables that are not reset to the market rates, it is amortised over the expected life of the financialinstrument.

B5.4.5For floating-rate financial assets and floating-rate financial liabilities, periodic re-estimation of cash flows toreflect the movements in the market rates of interest alters the effective interest rate. If a floating-rate financialasset or a floating-rate financial liability is recognised initially at an amount equal to the principal receivable orpayable on maturity, re-estimating the future interest payments normally has no significant effect on thecarrying amount of the asset or the liability.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201578A

B5.4.6If an entity revises its estimates of payments or receipts (excluding modifications in accordance with paragraph5.4.3 and changes in estimates of expected credit losses), it shall adjust the gross carrying amount of thefinancial asset or amortised cost of a financial liability (or group of financial instruments) to reflect actual andrevised estimated contractual cash flows. The entity recalculates the gross carrying amount of the financialasset or amortised cost of the financial liability as the present value of the estimated future contractual cashflows that are discounted at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effectiveinterest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when applicable, the revisedeffective interest rate calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. The adjustment is recognised in profit orloss as income or expense.

B5.4.7In some cases a financial asset is considered credit-impaired at initial recognition because the credit risk is veryhigh, and in the case of a purchase it is acquired at a deep discount. An entity is required to include the initialexpected credit losses in the estimated cash flows when calculating the credit-adjusted effective interest ratefor financial assets that are considered to be purchased or originated credit-impaired at initial recognition.However, this does not mean that a credit-adjusted effective interest rate should be applied solely because thefinancial asset has high credit risk at initial recognition.

Transaction Costs

B5.4.8Transaction costs include fees and commission paid to agents (including employees acting as selling agents),advisers, brokers and dealers, levies by regulatory agencies and security exchanges, and transfer taxes andduties. Transaction costs do not include debt premiums or discounts, financing costs or internal administrativeor holding costs.

Write-off

B5.4.9Write-offs can relate to a financial asset in its entirety or to a portion of it. For example, an entity plans to enforcethe collateral on a financial asset and expects to recover no more than 30 per cent of the financial asset from thecollateral. If the entity has no reasonable prospects of recovering any further cash flows from the financialasset, it should write off the remaining 70 per cent of the financial asset.

Impairment (Section 5.5)

Collective and Individual Assessment Basis

B5.5.1In order to meet the objective of recognising lifetime expected credit losses for significant increases in creditrisk since initial recognition, it may be necessary to perform the assessment of significant increases in creditrisk on a collective basis by considering information that is indicative of significant increases in credit risk on,for example, a group or sub-group of financial instruments. This is to ensure that an entity meets the objectiveof recognising lifetime expected credit losses when there are significant increases in credit risk, even if evidenceof such significant increases in credit risk at the individual instrument level is not yet available.

B5.5.2Lifetime expected credit losses are generally expected to be recognised before a financial instrument becomespast due. Typically, credit risk increases significantly before a financial instrument becomes past due or otherlagging borrower-specific factors (for example, a modification or restructuring) are observed. Consequentlywhen reasonable and supportable information that is more forward-looking than past due information is availablewithout undue cost or effort, it must be used to assess changes in credit risk.

B5.5.3However, depending on the nature of the financial instruments and the credit risk information available forparticular groups of financial instruments, an entity may not be able to identify significant changes in credit riskfor individual financial instruments before the financial instrument becomes past due. This may be the case forfinancial instruments such as retail loans for which there is little or no updated credit risk information that is

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201579A

routinely obtained and monitored on an individual instrument until a customer breaches the contractual terms.If changes in the credit risk for individual financial instruments are not captured before they become past due,a loss allowance based only on credit information at an individual financial instrument level would not faithfullyrepresent the changes in credit risk since initial recognition.

B5.5.4In some circumstances an entity does not have reasonable and supportable information that is availablewithout undue cost or effort to measure lifetime expected credit losses on an individual instrument basis. In thatcase, lifetime expected credit losses shall be recognised on a collective basis that considers comprehensivecredit risk information. This comprehensive credit risk information must incorporate not only past due informationbut also all relevant credit information, including forward-looking macroeconomic information, in order toapproximate the result of recognising lifetime expected credit losses when there has been a significant increasein credit risk since initial recognition on an individual instrument level.

B5.5.5For the purpose of determining significant increases in credit risk and recognising a loss allowance on acollective basis, an entity can group financial instruments on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics withthe objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk to beidentified on a timely basis. The entity should not obscure this information by grouping financial instrumentswith different risk characteristics. Examples of shared credit risk characteristics may include, but are not limitedto, the:

(a) instrument type;

(b) credit risk ratings;

(c) collateral type;

(d) date of initial recognition;

(e) remaining term to maturity;

(f) industry;

(g) geographical location of the borrower; and

(h) the value of collateral relative to the financial asset if it has an impact on the probability of a defaultoccurring (for example, non-recourse loans in some jurisdictions or loan-to-value ratios).

B5.5.6Paragraph 5.5.4 requires that lifetime expected credit losses are recognised on all financial instruments for whichthere has been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. In order to meet this objective, if anentity is not able to group financial instruments for which the credit risk is considered to have increasedsignificantly since initial recognition based on shared credit risk characteristics, the entity should recogniselifetime expected credit losses on a portion of the financial assets for which credit risk is deemed to haveincreased significantly. The aggregation of financial instruments to assess whether there are changes in creditrisk on a collective basis may change over time as new information becomes available on groups of, or individual,financial instruments.

Timing of Recognising Lifetime Expected Credit Losses

B5.5.7The assessment of whether lifetime expected credit losses should be recognised is based on significant increasesin the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition (irrespective of whether a financialinstrument has been repriced to reflect an increase in credit risk) instead of on evidence of a financial assetbeing credit-impaired at the reporting date or an actual default occurring. Generally, there will be a significantincrease in credit risk before a financial asset becomes credit-impaired or an actual default occurs.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201580A

B5.5.8For loan commitments, an entity considers changes in the risk of a default occurring on the loan to which a loancommitment relates. For financial guarantee contracts, an entity considers the changes in the risk that thespecified debtor will default on the contract.

B5.5.9The significance of a change in the credit risk since initial recognition depends on the risk of a default occurringas at initial recognition. Thus, a given change, in absolute terms, in the risk of a default occurring will be moresignificant for a financial instrument with a lower initial risk of a default occurring compared to a financialinstrument with a higher initial risk of a default occurring.

B5.5.10The risk of a default occurring on financial instruments that have comparable credit risk is higher the longer theexpected life of the instrument; for example, the risk of a default occurring on an AAA- rated bond with anexpected life of 10 years is higher than that on an AAA- rated bond with an expected life of five years.

B5.5.11Because of the relationship between the expected life and the risk of a default occurring, the change in creditrisk cannot be assessed simply by comparing the change in the absolute risk of a default occurring over time.For example, if the risk of a default occurring for a financial instrument with an expected life of 10 years at initialrecognition is identical to the risk of a default occurring on that financial instrument when its expected life in asubsequent period is only five years, that may indicate an increase in credit risk. This is because the risk of adefault occurring over the expected life usually decreases as time passes if the credit risk is unchanged and thefinancial instrument is closer to maturity. However, for financial instruments that only have significant paymentobligations close to the maturity of the financial instrument the risk of a default occurring may not necessarilydecrease as time passes. In such a case, an entity should also consider other qualitative factors that woulddemonstrate whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition.

B5.5.12An entity may apply various approaches when assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument hasincreased significantly since initial recognition or when measuring expected credit losses. An entity may applydifferent approaches for different financial instruments. An approach that does not include an explicit probabilityof default as an input per se, such as a credit loss rate approach, can be consistent with the requirements in thisStandard, provided that an entity is able to separate the changes in the risk of a default occurring from changesin other drivers of expected credit losses, such as collateral, and considers the following when making theassessment:

(a) the change in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition;

(b) the expected life of the financial instrument; and

(c) reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort that may affectcredit risk.

B5.5.13The methods used to determine whether credit risk has increased significantly on a financial instrument sinceinitial recognition should consider the characteristics of the financial instrument (or group of financialinstruments) and the default patterns in the past for comparable financial instruments. Despite the requirementin paragraph 5.5.9, for financial instruments for which default patterns are not concentrated at a specific pointduring the expected life of the financial instrument, changes in the risk of a default occurring over the next 12months may be a reasonable approximation of the changes in the lifetime risk of a default occurring. In suchcases, an entity may use changes in the risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months to determine whethercredit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, unless circumstances indicate that a lifetimeassessment is necessary.

B5.5.14However, for some financial instruments, or in some circumstances, it may not be appropriate to use changes inthe risk of a default occurring over the next 12 months to determine whether lifetime expected credit lossesshould be recognised. For example, the change in the risk of a default occurring in the next 12 months may not

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201581A

be a suitable basis for determining whether credit risk has increased on a financial instrument with a maturity ofmore than 12 months when:

(a) the financial instrument only has significant payment obligations beyond the next 12 months;

(b) changes in relevant macroeconomic or other credit-related factors occur that are not adequately reflectedin the risk of a default occurring in the next 12 months; or

(c) changes in credit-related factors only have an impact on the credit risk of the financial instrument (orhave a more pronounced effect) beyond 12 months.

Determining Whether Credit Risk has Increased Significantly since Initial Recognition

B5.5.15When determining whether the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses is required, an entity shall considerreasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort and that may affect thecredit risk on a financial instrument in accordance with paragraph 5.5.17(c). An entity need not undertake anexhaustive search for information when determining whether credit risk has increased significantly since initialrecognition.

B5.5.16Credit risk analysis is a multifactor and holistic analysis; whether a specific factor is relevant, and its weightcompared to other factors, will depend on the type of product, characteristics of the financial instruments andthe borrower as well as the geographical region. An entity shall consider reasonable and supportable informationthat is available without undue cost or effort and that is relevant for the particular financial instrument beingassessed. However, some factors or indicators may not be identifiable on an individual financial instrumentlevel. In such a case, the factors or indicators should be assessed for appropriate portfolios, groups of portfoliosor portions of a portfolio of financial instruments to determine whether the requirement in paragraph 5.5.3 forthe recognition of lifetime expected credit losses has been met.

B5.5.17The following non-exhaustive list of information may be relevant in assessing changes in credit risk:

(a) significant changes in internal price indicators of credit risk as a result of a change in credit risk sinceinception, including, but not limited to, the credit spread that would result if a particular financialinstrument or similar financial instrument with the same terms and the same counterparty were newlyoriginated or issued at the reporting date.

(b) other changes in the rates or terms of an existing financial instrument that would be significantly differentif the instrument was newly originated or issued at the reporting date (such as more stringent covenants,increased amounts of collateral or guarantees, or higher income coverage) because of changes in thecredit risk of the financial instrument since initial recognition.

(c) significant changes in external market indicators of credit risk for a particular financial instrument orsimilar financial instruments with the same expected life. Changes in market indicators of credit riskinclude, but are not limited to:

(i) the credit spread;

(ii) the credit default swap prices for the borrower;

(iii) the length of time or the extent to which the fair value of a financial asset has been less than itsamortised cost; and

(iv) other market information related to the borrower, such as changes in the price of a borrower’s debtand equity instruments.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201582A

(d) an actual or expected significant change in the financial instrument’s external credit rating.

(e) an actual or expected internal credit rating downgrade for the borrower or decrease in behaviouralscoring used to assess credit risk internally. Internal credit ratings and internal behavioural scoring aremore reliable when they are mapped to external ratings or supported by default studies.

(f) existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected tocause a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations, such as an actual orexpected increase in interest rates or an actual or expected significant increase in unemployment rates.

(g) an actual or expected significant change in the operating results of the borrower. Examples include actualor expected declining revenues or margins, increasing operating risks, working capital deficiencies,decreasing asset quality, increased balance sheet leverage, liquidity, management problems or changesin the scope of business or organisational structure (such as the discontinuance of a segment of thebusiness) that results in a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations.

(h) significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same borrower.

(i) an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environmentof the borrower that results in a significant change in the borrower’s ability to meet its debt obligations,such as a decline in the demand for the borrower’s sales product because of a shift in technology.

(j) significant changes in the value of the collateral supporting the obligation or in the quality of third-partyguarantees or credit enhancements, which are expected to reduce the borrower’s economic incentive tomake scheduled contractual payments or to otherwise have an effect on the probability of a defaultoccurring. For example, if the value of collateral declines because house prices decline, borrowers insome jurisdictions have a greater incentive to default on their mortgages.

(k) a significant change in the quality of the guarantee provided by a shareholder (or an individual’sparents) if the shareholder (or parents) have an incentive and financial ability to prevent default bycapital or cash infusion.

(l) significant changes, such as reductions in financial support from a parent entity or other affiliate or anactual or expected significant change in the quality of credit enhancement, that are expected to reducethe borrower’s economic incentive to make scheduled contractual payments. Credit quality enhancementsor support include the consideration of the financial condition of the guarantor and/or, for interestsissued in securitisations, whether subordinated interests are expected to be capable of absorbing expectedcredit losses (for example, on the loans underlying the security).

(m) expected changes in the loan documentation including an expected breach of contract that may lead tocovenant waivers or amendments, interest payment holidays, interest rate step-ups, requiring additionalcollateral or guarantees, or other changes to the contractual framework of the instrument.

(n) significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the borrower, including changes inthe payment status of borrowers in the group (for example, an increase in the expected number or extentof delayed contractual payments or significant increases in the expected number of credit card borrowerswho are expected to approach or exceed their credit limit or who are expected to be paying the minimummonthly amount).

(o) changes in the entity’s credit management approach in relation to the financial instrument; ie based onemerging indicators of changes in the credit risk of the financial instrument, the entity’s credit riskmanagement practice is expected to become more active or to be focused on managing the instrument,including the instrument becoming more closely monitored or controlled, or the entity specificallyintervening with the borrower.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201583A

(p) past due information, including the rebuttable presumption as set out in paragraph 5.5.11.

B5.5.18In some cases, the qualitative and non-statistical quantitative information available may be sufficient to determinethat a financial instrument has met the criterion for the recognition of a loss allowance at an amount equal tolifetime expected credit losses. That is, the information does not need to flow through a statistical model orcredit ratings process in order to determine whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk of thefinancial instrument. In other cases, an entity may need to consider other information, including informationfrom its statistical models or credit ratings processes. Alternatively, the entity may base the assessment on bothtypes of information, ie qualitative factors that are not captured through the internal ratings process and aspecific internal rating category at the reporting date, taking into consideration the credit risk characteristics atinitial recognition, if both types of information are relevant.

More than 30 Days Past due Rebuttable Presumption

B5.5.19The rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 is not an absolute indicator that lifetime expected credit lossesshould be recognised, but is presumed to be the latest point at which lifetime expected credit losses should berecognised even when using forward-looking information (including macroeconomic factors on a portfoliolevel).

B5.5.20An entity can rebut this presumption. However, it can do so only when it has reasonable and supportableinformation available that demonstrates that even if contractual payments become more than 30 days past due,this does not represent a significant increase in the credit risk of a financial instrument. For example when non-payment was an administrative oversight, instead of resulting from financial difficulty of the borrower, or theentity has access to historical evidence that demonstrates that there is no correlation between significantincreases in the risk of a default occurring and financial assets on which payments are more than 30 days pastdue, but that evidence does identify such a correlation when payments are more than 60 days past due.

B5.5.21An entity cannot align the timing of significant increases in credit risk and the recognition of lifetime expectedcredit losses to when a financial asset is regarded as credit-impaired or an entity’s internal definition of default.

Financial Instruments That have Low Credit Risk at the Reporting Date

B5.5.22The credit risk on a financial instrument is considered low for the purposes of paragraph 5.5.10, if the financialinstrument has a low risk of default, the borrower has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flowobligations in the near term and adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may,but will not necessarily, reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations.Financial instruments are not considered to have low credit risk when they are regarded as having a low risk ofloss simply because of the value of collateral and the financial instrument without that collateral would not beconsidered low credit risk. Financial instruments are also not considered to have low credit risk simply becausethey have a lower risk of default than the entity’s other financial instruments or relative to the credit risk of thejurisdiction within which an entity operates.

B5.5.23To determine whether a financial instrument has low credit risk, an entity may use its internal credit risk ratingsor other methodologies that are consistent with a globally understood definition of low credit risk and thatconsider the risks and the type of financial instruments that are being assessed. An external rating of ‘investmentgrade’ is an example of a financial instrument that may be considered as having low credit risk. However,financial instruments are not required to be externally rated to be considered to have low credit risk. Theyshould, however, be considered to have low credit risk from a market participant perspective taking intoaccount all of the terms and conditions of the financial instrument.

B5.5.24Lifetime expected credit losses are not recognised on a financial instrument simply because it was consideredto have low credit risk in the previous reporting period and is not considered to have low credit risk at the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201584A

reporting date. In such a case, an entity shall determine whether there has been a significant increase in creditrisk since initial recognition and thus whether lifetime expected credit losses are required to be recognised inaccordance with paragraph 5.5.3.

Modifications

B5.5.25In some circumstances, the renegotiation or modification of the contractual cash flows of a financial asset canlead to the derecognition of the existing financial asset in accordance with this Standard. When the modificationof a financial asset results in the derecognition of the existing financial asset and the subsequent recognitionof the modified financial asset, the modified asset is considered a ‘new’ financial asset for the purposes of thisStandard.

B5.5.26Accordingly the date of the modification shall be treated as the date of initial recognition of that financial assetwhen applying the impairment requirements to the modified financial asset. This typically means measuring theloss allowance at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses until the requirements for the recognitionof lifetime expected credit losses in paragraph 5.5.3 are met. However, in some unusual circumstances followinga modification that results in derecognition of the original financial asset, there may be evidence that themodified financial asset is credit-impaired at initial recognition, and thus, the financial asset should be recognisedas an originated credit-impaired financial asset. This might occur, for example, in a situation in which there wasa substantial modification of a distressed asset that resulted in the derecognition of the original financial asset.In such a case, it may be possible for the modification to result in a new financial asset which is credit impairedat initial recognition.

B5.5.27If the contractual cash flows on a financial asset have been renegotiated or otherwise modified, but the financialasset is not derecognised, that financial asset is not automatically considered to have lower credit risk. Anentity shall assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition on thebasis of all reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. This includeshistorical and forward-looking information and an assessment of the credit risk over the expected life of thefinancial asset, which includes information about the circumstances that led to the modification. Evidence thatthe criteria for the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses are no longer met may include a history of up-to-date and timely payment performance against the modified contractual terms. Typically a customer wouldneed to demonstrate consistently good payment behaviour over a period of time before the credit risk isconsidered to have decreased. For example, a history of missed or incomplete payments would not typically beerased by simply making one payment on time following a modification of the contractual terms.

Measurement of Expected Credit Losses

Expected Credit Losses

B5.5.28Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (ie. the present value of all cashshortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the difference between the cashflows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the entity expects toreceive. Because expected credit losses consider the amount and timing of payments, a credit loss arises evenif the entity expects to be paid in full but later than when contractually due.

B5.5.29For financial assets, a credit loss is the present value of the difference between:

(a) the contractual cash flows that are due to an entity under the contract; and

(b) the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201585A

B5.5.30For undrawn loan commitments, a credit loss is the present value of the difference between:

(a) the contractual cash flows that are due to the entity if the holder of the loan commitment draws down theloan; and

(b) the cash flows that the entity expects to receive if the loan is drawn down.

B5.5.31An entity’s estimate of expected credit losses on loan commitments shall be consistent with its expectations ofdrawdowns on that loan commitment, ie. it shall consider the expected portion of the loan commitment that willbe drawn down within 12 months of the reporting date when estimating 12-month expected credit losses, andthe expected portion of the loan commitment that will be drawn down over the expected life of the loancommitment when estimating lifetime expected credit losses.

B5.5.32For a financial guarantee contract, the entity is required to make payments only in the event of a default by thedebtor in accordance with the terms of the instrument that is guaranteed. Accordingly, cash shortfalls are theexpected payments to reimburse the holder for a credit loss that it incurs less any amounts that the entityexpects to receive from the holder, the debtor or any other party. If the asset is fully guaranteed, the estimationof cash shortfalls for a financial guarantee contract would be consistent with the estimations of cash shortfallsfor the asset subject to the guarantee.

B5.5.33For a financial asset that is credit-impaired at the reporting date, but that is not a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset, an entity shall measure the expected credit losses as the difference between the asset’sgross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset’soriginal effective interest rate. Any adjustment is recognised in profit or loss as an impairment gain or loss.

B5.5.34When measuring a loss allowance for a lease receivable, the cash flows used for determining the expected creditlosses should be consistent with the cash flows used in measuring the lease receivable in accordance withLKAS 17 Leases.

B5.5.35An entity may use practical expedients when measuring expected credit losses if they are consistent with theprinciples in paragraph 5.5.17. An example of a practical expedient is the calculation of the expected credit losseson trade receivables using a provision matrix. The entity would use its historical credit loss experience (adjustedas appropriate in accordance with paragraphs B5.5.51–B5.5.52) for trade receivables to estimate the 12-monthexpected credit losses or the lifetime expected credit losses on the financial assets as relevant. A provisionmatrix might, for example, specify fixed provision rates depending on the number of days that a trade receivableis past due (for example, 1 per cent if not past due, 2 per cent if less than 30 days past due, 3 per cent if more than30 days but less than 90 days past due, 20 per cent if 90–180 days past due etc). Depending on the diversity ofits customer base, the entity would use appropriate groupings if its historical credit loss experience showssignificantly different loss patterns for different customer segments. Examples of criteria that might be used togroup assets include geographical region, product type, customer rating, collateral or trade credit insuranceand type of customer (such as wholesale or retail).

Definition of Default

B5.5.36Paragraph 5.5.9 requires that when determining whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increasedsignificantly, an entity shall consider the change in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition.

B5.5.37When defining default for the purposes of determining the risk of a default occurring, an entity shall apply adefault definition that is consistent with the definition used for internal credit risk management purposes for therelevant financial instrument and consider qualitative indicators (for example, financial covenants) whenappropriate. However, there is a rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later than when a financialasset is 90 days past due unless an entity has reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that amore lagging default criterion is more appropriate. The definition of default used for these purposes shall be

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201586A

applied consistently to all financial instruments unless information becomes available that demonstrates thatanother default definition is more appropriate for a particular financial instrument.

Period over Which to Estimate Expected Credit Losses

B5.5.38In accordance with paragraph 5.5.19, the maximum period over which expected credit losses shall be measuredis the maximum contractual period over which the entity is exposed to credit risk. For loan commitments andfinancial guarantee contracts, this is the maximum contractual period over which an entity has a presentcontractual obligation to extend credit.

B5.5.39However, in accordance with paragraph 5.5.20, some financial instruments include both a loan and an undrawncommitment component and the entity’s contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawncommitment does not limit the entity’s exposure to credit losses to the contractual notice period. For example,revolving credit facilities, such as credit cards and overdraft facilities, can be contractually withdrawn by thelender with as little as one day’s notice. However, in practice lenders continue to extend credit for a longerperiod and may only withdraw the facility after the credit risk of the borrower increases, which could be too lateto prevent some or all of the expected credit losses. These financial instruments generally have the followingcharacteristics as a result of the nature of the financial instrument, the way in which the financial instrumentsare managed, and the nature of the available information about significant increases in credit risk:

(a) the financial instruments do not have a fixed term or repayment structure and usually have a shortcontractual cancellation period (for example, one day);

(b) the contractual ability to cancel the contract is not enforced in the normal day-to-day management of thefinancial instrument and the contract may only be cancelled when the entity becomes aware of anincrease in credit risk at the facility level; and

(c) the financial instruments are managed on a collective basis.

B5.5.40When determining the period over which the entity is expected to be exposed to credit risk, but for whichexpected credit losses would not be mitigated by the entity’s normal credit risk management actions, an entityshould consider factors such as historical information and experience about:

(a) the period over which the entity was exposed to credit risk on similar financial instruments;

(b) the length of time for related defaults to occur on similar financial instruments following a significantincrease in credit risk; and

(c) the credit risk management actions that an entity expects to take once the credit risk on the financialinstrument has increased, such as the reduction or removal of undrawn limits.

Probability-weighted Outcome

B5.5.41The purpose of estimating expected credit losses is neither to estimate a worst-case scenario nor to estimate thebest-case scenario. Instead, an estimate of expected credit losses shall always reflect the possibility that acredit loss occurs and the possibility that no credit loss occurs even if the most likely outcome is no credit loss.

B5.5.42Paragraph 5.5.17(a) requires the estimate of expected credit losses to reflect an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes. In practice, this may not needto be a complex analysis. In some cases, relatively simple modelling may be sufficient, without the need for alarge number of detailed simulations of scenarios. For example, the average credit losses of a large group offinancial instruments with shared risk characteristics may be a reasonable estimate of the probability-weightedamount. In other situations, the identification of scenarios that specify the amount and timing of the cash flows

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201587A

for particular outcomes and the estimated probability of those outcomes will probably be needed. In thosesituations, the expected credit losses shall reflect at least two outcomes in accordance with paragraph 5.5.18.

B5.5.43For lifetime expected credit losses, an entity shall estimate the risk of a default occurring on the financialinstrument during its expected life. 12-month expected credit losses are a portion of the lifetime expected creditlosses and represent the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a default occurs in the 12 months after thereporting date (or a shorter period if the expected life of a financial instrument is less than 12 months), weightedby the probability of that default occurring. Thus, 12-month expected credit losses are neither the lifetimeexpected credit losses that an entity will incur on financial instruments that it predicts will default in the next 12months nor the cash shortfalls that are predicted over the next 12 months.

Time Value of Money

B5.5.44Expected credit losses shall be discounted to the reporting date, not to the expected default or some other date,using the effective interest rate determined at initial recognition or an approximation thereof. If a financialinstrument has a variable interest rate, expected credit losses shall be discounted using the current effectiveinterest rate determined in accordance with paragraph B5.4.5.

B5.5.45For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, expected credit losses shall be discounted usingthe credit-adjusted effective interest rate determined at initial recognition.

B5.5.46Expected credit losses on lease receivables shall be discounted using the same discount rate used in themeasurement of the lease receivable in accordance with LKAS 17.

B5.5.47The expected credit losses on a loan commitment shall be discounted using the effective interest rate, or anapproximation thereof, that will be applied when recognising the financial asset resulting from the loancommitment. This is because for the purpose of applying the impairment requirements, a financial asset that isrecognised following a draw down on a loan commitment shall be treated as a continuation of that commitmentinstead of as a new financial instrument. The expected credit losses on the financial asset shall therefore bemeasured considering the initial credit risk of the loan commitment from the date that the entity became a partyto the irrevocable commitment.

B5.5.48Expected credit losses on financial guarantee contracts or on loan commitments for which the effective interestrate cannot be determined shall be discounted by applying a discount rate that reflects the current marketassessment of the time value of money and the risks that are specific to the cash flows but only if, and to theextent that, the risks are taken into account by adjusting the discount rate instead of adjusting the cashshortfalls being discounted.

Reasonable and Supportable Information

B5.5.49For the purpose of this Standard, reasonable and supportable information is that which is reasonably availableat the reporting date without undue cost or effort, including information about past events, current conditionsand forecasts of future economic conditions. Information that is available for financial reporting purposes isconsidered to be available without undue cost or effort.

B5.5.50An entity is not required to incorporate forecasts of future conditions over the entire expected life of a financialinstrument. The degree of judgement that is required to estimate expected credit losses depends on the availabilityof detailed information. As the forecast horizon increases, the availability of detailed information decreases andthe degree of judgement required to estimate expected credit losses increases. The estimate of expected creditlosses does not require a detailed estimate for periods that are far in the future—for such periods, an entity mayextrapolate projections from available, detailed information.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201588A

B5.5.51An entity need not undertake an exhaustive search for information but shall consider all reasonable andsupportable information that is available without undue cost or effort and that is relevant to the estimate ofexpected credit losses, including the effect of expected prepayments. The information used shall includefactors that are specific to the borrower, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current aswell as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date. An entity may use various sources of data, thatmay be both internal (entity-specific) and external. Possible data sources include internal historical credit lossexperience, internal ratings, credit loss experience of other entities and external ratings, reports and statistics.Entities that have no, or insufficient, sources of entity-specific data may use peer group experience for thecomparable financial instrument (or groups of financial instruments).

B5.5.52Historical information is an important anchor or base from which to measure expected credit losses. However,an entity shall adjust historical data, such as credit loss experience, on the basis of current observable data toreflect the effects of the current conditions and its forecasts of future conditions that did not affect the periodon which the historical data is based, and to remove the effects of the conditions in the historical period that arenot relevant to the future contractual cash flows. In some cases, the best reasonable and supportable informationcould be the unadjusted historical information, depending on the nature of the historical information and whenit was calculated, compared to circumstances at the reporting date and the characteristics of the financialinstrument being considered. Estimates of changes in expected credit losses should reflect, and be directionallyconsistent with, changes in related observable data from period to period (such as changes in unemploymentrates, property prices, commodity prices, payment status or other factors that are indicative of credit losses onthe financial instrument or in the group of financial instruments and in the magnitude of those changes). Anentity shall regularly review the methodology and assumptions used for estimating expected credit losses toreduce any differences between estimates and actual credit loss experience.

B5.5.53When using historical credit loss experience in estimating expected credit losses, it is important that informationabout historical credit loss rates is applied to groups that are defined in a manner that is consistent with thegroups for which the historical credit loss rates were observed. Consequently,the method used shall enableeach group of financial assets to be associated with information about past credit loss experience in groups offinancial assets with similar risk characteristics and with relevant observable data that reflects current conditions.

B5.5.54Expected credit losses reflect an entity’s own expectations of credit losses. However, when considering allreasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort in estimating expectedcredit losses, an entity should also consider observable market information about the credit risk of the particularfinancial instrument or similar financial instruments.

Collateral

B5.5.55For the purposes of measuring expected credit losses, the estimate of expected cash shortfalls shall reflect thecash flows expected from collateral and other credit enhancements that are part of the contractual terms and arenot recognised separately by the entity. The estimate of expected cash shortfalls on a collateralised financialinstrument reflects the amount and timing of cash flows that are expected from foreclosure on the collateral lessthe costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, irrespective of whether foreclosure is probable (ie the estimateof expected cash flows considers the probability of a foreclosure and the cash flows that would result from it).Consequently, any cash flows that are expected from the realisation of the collateral beyond the contractualmaturity of the contract should be included in this analysis. Any collateral obtained as a result of foreclosure isnot recognised as an asset that is separate from the collateralised financial instrument unless it meets therelevant recognition criteria for an asset in this or other Standards.

Reclassification of Financial Assets (Section 5.6)

B5.6.1If an entity reclassifies financial assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1, paragraph 5.6.1 requires that thereclassification is applied prospectively from the reclassification date. Both the amortised cost measurementcategory and the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category require that the effective

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201589A

interest rate is determined at initial recognition. Both of those measurement categories also require that theimpairment requirements are applied in the same way. Consequently, when an entity reclassifies a financialasset between the amortised cost measurement category and the fair value through other comprehensiveincome measurement category:

(a) the recognition of interest revenue will not change and therefore the entity continues to use the sameeffective interest rate.

(b) the measurement of expected credit losses will not change because both measurement categories applythe same impairment approach. However if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value throughother comprehensive income measurement category and into the amortised cost measurement category,a loss allowance would be recognised as an adjustment to the gross carrying amount of the financialasset from the reclassification date. If a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurementcategory and into the fair value through other comprehensive income measurement category, the lossallowance would be derecognised (and thus would no longer be recognised as an adjustment to thegross carrying amount) but instead would be recognised as an accumulated impairment amount (of anequal amount) in other comprehensive income and would be disclosed from the reclassification date.

B5.6.2However, an entity is not required to separately recognise interest revenue or impairment gains or losses for afinancial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss. Consequently, when an entity reclassifies afinancial asset out of the fair value through profit or loss measurement category, the effective interest rate isdetermined on the basis of the fair value of the asset at the reclassification date. In addition, for the purposesof applying Section 5.5 to the financial asset from the reclassification date, the date of the reclassification istreated as the date of initial recognition.

Gains and Losses (Section 5.7)

B5.7.1Paragraph 5.7.5 permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive incomechanges in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument that is not held for trading. This election ismade on an instrument-by-instrument (ie share-by-share) basis. Amounts presented in other comprehensiveincome shall not be subsequently transferred to profit or loss. However, the entity may transfer the cumulativegain or loss within equity. Dividends on such investments are recognised in profit or loss in accordance withparagraph 5.7.6 unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment.

B5.7.1AUnless paragraph 4.1.5 applies, paragraph 4.1.2A requires that a financial asset is measured at fair value throughother comprehensive income if the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise to cash flows that are solelypayments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding and the asset is held in a businessmodel whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. Thismeasurement category recognises information in profit or loss as if the financial asset is measured at amortisedcost, while the financial asset is measured in the statement of financial position at fair value. Gains or losses,other than those that are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with paragraphs 5.7.10–5.7.11, are recognisedin other comprehensive income. When these financial assets are derecognised, cumulative gains or lossespreviously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. This reflects the gain orloss that would have been recognised in profit or loss upon derecognition if the financial asset had beenmeasured at amortised cost.

B5.7.2An entity applies LKAS 21 to financial assets and financial liabilities that are monetary items in accordance withLKAS 21 and denominated in a foreign currency. LKAS 21 requires any foreign exchange gains and losses onmonetary assets and monetary liabilities to be recognised in profit or loss. An exception is a monetary item thatis designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge (see paragraph 6.5.11), a hedge of a net investment(see paragraph 6.5.13) or a fair value hedge of an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to presentchanges in fair value in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 (see paragraph 6.5.8).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201590A

B5.7.2AFor the purpose of recognising foreign exchange gains and losses under LKAS 21, a financial asset measuredat fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A is treated as a monetaryitem. Accordingly, such a financial asset is treated as an asset measured at amortised cost in the foreigncurrency. Exchange differences on the amortised cost are recognised in profit or loss and other changes in thecarrying amount are recognised in accordance with paragraph 5.7.10.

B5.7.3Paragraph 5.7.5 permits an entity to make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive incomesubsequent changes in the fair value of particular investments in equity instruments. Such an investment is nota monetary item. Accordingly, the gain or loss that is presented in other comprehensive income in accordancewith paragraph 5.7.5 includes any related foreign exchange component.

B5.7.4If there is a hedging relationship between a non-derivative monetary asset and a non-derivative monetaryliability, changes in the foreign currency component of those financial instruments are presented in profit orloss.

Liabilities Designated as at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

B5.7.5When an entity designates a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss, it must determine whetherpresenting in other comprehensive income the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk would create orenlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. An accounting mismatch would be created or enlarged ifpresenting the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income would result in agreater mismatch in profit or loss than if those amounts were presented in profit or loss.

B5.7.6To make that determination, an entity must assess whether it expects that the effects of changes in the liability’scredit risk will be offset in profit or loss by a change in the fair value of another financial instrument measuredat fair value through profit or loss. Such an expectation must be based on an economic relationship between thecharacteristics of the liability and the characteristics of the other financial instrument.

B5.7.7That determination is made at initial recognition and is not reassessed. For practical purposes the entity neednot enter into all of the assets and liabilities giving rise to an accounting mismatch at exactly the same time. Areasonable delay is permitted provided that any remaining transactions are expected to occur. An entity mustapply consistently its methodology for determining whether presenting in other comprehensive income theeffects of changes in the liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.However, an entity may use different methodologies when there are different economic relationships betweenthe characteristics of the liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss and the characteristics ofthe other financial instruments. SLFRS 7 requires an entity to provide qualitative disclosures in the notes to thefinancial statements about its methodology for making that determination.

B5.7.8If such a mismatch would be created or enlarged, the entity is required to present all changes in fair value(including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss. If such a mismatch would notbe created or enlarged, the entity is required to present the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in othercomprehensive income.

B5.7.9Amounts presented in other comprehensive income shall not be subsequently transferred to profit or loss.However, the entity may transfer the cumulative gain or loss within equity.

B5.7.10The following example describes a situation in which an accounting mismatch would be created in profit or lossif the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability were presented in other comprehensive income. Amortgage bank provides loans to customers and funds those loans by selling bonds with matching characteristics(eg amount outstanding, repayment profile, term and currency) in the market. The contractual terms of the loanpermit the mortgage customer to prepay its loan (ie satisfy its obligation to the bank) by buying the correspondingbond at fair value in the market and delivering that bond to the mortgage bank. As a result of that contractual

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201591A

prepayment right, if the credit quality of the bond worsens (and, thus, the fair value of the mortgage bank’sliability decreases), the fair value of the mortgage bank’s loan asset also decreases. The change in the fair valueof the asset reflects the mortgage customer’s contractual right to prepay the mortgage loan by buying theunderlying bond at fair value (which, in this example, has decreased) and delivering the bond to the mortgagebank. Consequently, the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability (the bond) will be offset in profit orloss by a corresponding change in the fair value of a financial asset (the loan). If the effects of changes in theliability’s credit risk were presented in other comprehensive income there would be an accounting mismatch inprofit or loss. Consequently, the mortgage bank is required to present all changes in fair value of the liability(including the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk) in profit or loss.

B5.7.11In the example in paragraph B5.7.10, there is a contractual linkage between the effects of changes in the creditrisk of the liability and changes in the fair value of the financial asset (ie as a result of the mortgage customer’scontractual right to prepay the loan by buying the bond at fair value and delivering the bond to the mortgagebank). However, an accounting mismatch may also occur in the absence of a contractual linkage.

B5.7.12For the purposes of applying the requirements in paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8, an accounting mismatch is notcaused solely by the measurement method that an entity uses to determine the effects of changes in a liability’scredit risk. An accounting mismatch in profit or loss would arise only when the effects of changes in theliability’s credit risk (as defined in SLFRS 7) are expected to be offset by changes in the fair value of anotherfinancial instrument. A mismatch that arises solely as a result of the measurement method (ie because an entitydoes not isolate changes in a liability’s credit risk from some other changes in its fair value) does not affect thedetermination required by paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8. For example, an entity may not isolate changes in aliability’s credit risk from changes in liquidity risk. If the entity presents the combined effect of both factors inother comprehensive income, a mismatch may occur because changes in liquidity risk may be included in thefair value measurement of the entity’s financial assets and the entire fair value change of those assets ispresented in profit or loss. However, such a mismatch is caused by measurement imprecision, not the offsettingrelationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 and, therefore, does not affect the determination required byparagraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8.

The Meaning of ‘Credit Risk’ (paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8)

B5.7.13SLFRS 7 defines credit risk as ‘the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for theother party by failing to discharge an obligation’. The requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a) relates to the risk thatthe issuer will fail to perform on that particular liability. It does not necessarily relate to the creditworthiness ofthe issuer. For example, if an entity issues a collateralised liability and a non-collateralised liability that areotherwise identical, the credit risk of those two liabilities will be different, even though they are issued by thesame entity. The credit risk on the collateralised liability will be less than the credit risk of the non-collateralisedliability. The credit risk for a collateralised liability may be close to zero.

B5.7.14For the purposes of applying the requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a), credit risk is different from asset-specificperformance risk. Asset-specific performance risk is not related to the risk that an entity will fail to discharge aparticular obligation but instead it is related to the risk that a single asset or a group of assets will performpoorly (or not at all).

B5.7.15The following are examples of asset-specific performance risk:

(a) a liability with a unit-linking feature whereby the amount due to investors is contractually determined onthe basis of the performance of specified assets. The effect of that unit-linking feature on the fair value ofthe liability is asset-specific performance risk, not credit risk.

(b) a liability issued by a structured entity with the following characteristics. The entity is legally isolated sothe assets in the entity are ring-fenced solely for the benefit of its investors, even in the event ofbankruptcy. The entity enters into no other transactions and the assets in the entity cannot be

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201592A

hypothecated. Amounts are due to the entity’s investors only if the ring-fenced assets generate cashflows. Thus, changes in the fair value of the liability primarily reflect changes in the fair value of theassets. The effect of the performance of the assets on the fair value of the liability is asset-specificperformance risk, not credit risk.

Determining the Effects of Changes in Credit Risk

B5.7.16For the purposes of applying the requirement in paragraph 5.7.7(a), an entity shall determine the amount ofchange in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liabilityeither:

(a) as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that giverise to market risk (see paragraphs B5.7.17 and B5.7.18); or

(b) using an alternative method the entity believes more faithfully represents the amount of change in theliability’s fair value that is attributable to changes in its credit risk.

B5.7.17Changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk include changes in a benchmark interest rate, the priceof another entity’s financial instrument, a commodity price, a foreign exchange rate or an index of prices or rates.

B5.7.18If the only significant relevant changes in market conditions for a liability are changes in an observed (benchmark)interest rate, the amount in paragraph B5.7.16(a) can be estimated as follows:

(a) First, the entity computes the liability’s internal rate of return at the start of the period using the fair valueof the liability and the liability’s contractual cash flows at the start of the period. It deducts from this rateof return the observed (benchmark) interest rate at the start of the period, to arrive at an instrument-specific component of the internal rate of return.

(b) Next, the entity calculates the present value of the cash flows associated with the liability using theliability’s contractual cash flows at the end of the period and a discount rate equal to the sum of (i) theobserved (benchmark) interest rate at the end of the period and (ii) the instrument-specific component ofthe internal rate of return as determined in (a).

(c) The difference between the fair value of the liability at the end of the period and the amount determinedin (b) is the change in fair value that is not attributable to changes in the observed (benchmark) interestrate. This is the amount to be presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph5.7.7(a).

B5.7.19The example in paragraph B5.7.18 assumes that changes in fair value arising from factors other than changes inthe instrument’s credit risk or changes in observed (benchmark) interest rates are not significant. This methodwould not be appropriate if changes in fair value arising from other factors are significant. In those cases, anentity is required to use an alternative method that more faithfully measures the effects of changes in theliability’s credit risk (see paragraph B5.7.16(b)). For example, if the instrument in the example contains anembedded derivative, the change in fair value of the embedded derivative is excluded in determining the amountto be presented in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.7(a).

B5.7.20As with all fair value measurements, an entity’s measurement method for determining the portion of the changein the liability’s fair value that is attributable to changes in its credit risk must make maximum use of relevantobservable inputs and minimum use of unobservable inputs.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201593A

Hedge Accounting (Chapter 6)

Hedging Instruments (Section 6.2)

Qualifying Instruments

B6.2.1Derivatives that are embedded in hybrid contracts, but that are not separately accounted for, cannot bedesignated as separate hedging instruments.

B6.2.2An entity’s own equity instruments are not financial assets or financial liabilities of the entity and thereforecannot be designated as hedging instruments.

B6.2.3For hedges of foreign currency risk, the foreign currency risk component of a non-derivative financial instrumentis determined in accordance with LKAS 21.

Written Options

B6.2.4This Standard does not restrict the circumstances in which a derivative that is measured at fair value throughprofit or loss may be designated as a hedging instrument, except for some written options. A written optiondoes not qualify as a hedging instrument unless it is designated as an offset to a purchased option, includingone that is embedded in another financial instrument (for example, a written call option used to hedge a callableliability).

Designation of Hedging Instruments

B6.2.5For hedges other than hedges of foreign currency risk, when an entity designates a non-derivative financialasset or a non-derivative financial liability measured at fair value through profit or loss as a hedging instrument,it may only designate the non-derivative financial instrument in its entirety or a proportion of it.

B6.2.6A single hedging instrument may be designated as a hedging instrument of more than one type of risk, providedthat there is a specific designation of the hedging instrument and of the different risk positions as hedged items.Those hedged items can be in different hedging relationships.

Hedged Items (Section 6.3)

Qualifying Items

B6.3.1A firm commitment to acquire a business in a business combination cannot be a hedged item, except for foreigncurrency risk, because the other risks being hedged cannot be specifically identified and measured. Thoseother risks are general business risks.

B6.3.2An equity method investment cannot be a hedged item in a fair value hedge. This is because the equity methodrecognises in profit or loss the investor’s share of the investee’s profit or loss, instead of changes in theinvestment’s fair value. For a similar reason, an investment in a consolidated subsidiary cannot be a hedgeditem in a fair value hedge. This is because consolidation recognises in profit or loss the subsidiary’s profit orloss, instead of changes in the investment’s fair value. A hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation isdifferent because it is a hedge of the foreign currency exposure, not a fair value hedge of the change in the valueof the investment.

B6.3.3Paragraph 6.3.4 permits an entity to designate as hedged items aggregated exposures that are a combination ofan exposure and a derivative. When designating such a hedged item, an entity assesses whether the aggregatedexposure combines an exposure with a derivative so that it creates a different aggregated exposure that is

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201594A

managed as one exposure for a particular risk (or risks). In that case, the entity may designate the hedged itemon the basis of the aggregated exposure. For example:

(a) an entity may hedge a given quantity of highly probable coffee purchases in 15 months’ time againstprice risk (based on US dollars) using a 15-month futures contract for coffee. The highly probable coffeepurchases and the futures contract for coffee in combination can be viewed as a 15-month fixed-amountUS dollar foreign currency risk exposure for risk management purposes (ie. like any fixed-amount USdollar cash outflow in 15 months’ time).

(b) an entity may hedge the foreign currency risk for the entire term of a 10-year fixed-rate debt denominatedin a foreign currency. However, the entity requires fixed-rate exposure in its functional currency only fora short to medium term (say two years) and floating rate exposure in its functional currency for theremaining term to maturity. At the end of each of the two-year intervals (ie. on a two-year rolling basis)the entity fixes the next two years’ interest rate exposure (if the interest level is such that the entitywants to fix interest rates). In such a situation an entity may enter into a 10-year fixed-to-floating cross-currency interest rate swap that swaps the fixed-rate foreign currency debt into a variable-rate functionalcurrency exposure. This is overlaid with a two-year interest rate swap that—on the basis of the functionalcurrency—swaps variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. In effect, the fixed-rate foreign currency debtand the 10-year fixed-to-floating cross-currency interest rate swap in combination are viewed as a 10-year variable-rate debt functional currency exposure for risk management purposes.

B6.3.4When designating the hedged item on the basis of the aggregated exposure, an entity considers the combinedeffect of the items that constitute the aggregated exposure for the purpose of assessing hedge effectivenessand measuring hedge ineffectiveness. However, the items that constitute the aggregated exposure remainaccounted for separately. This means that, for example:

(a) derivatives that are part of an aggregated exposure are recognised as separate assets or liabilitiesmeasured at fair value; and

(b) if a hedging relationship is designated between the items that constitute the aggregated exposure, theway in which a derivative is included as part of an aggregated exposure must be consistent with thedesignation of that derivative as the hedging instrument at the level of the aggregated exposure. Forexample, if an entity excludes the forward element of a derivative from its designation as the hedginginstrument for the hedging relationship between the items that constitute the aggregated exposure, itmust also exclude the forward element when including that derivative as a hedged item as part of theaggregated exposure. Otherwise, the aggregated exposure shall include a derivative, either in its entiretyor a proportion of it.

B6.3.5Paragraph 6.3.6 states that in consolidated financial statements the foreign currency risk of a highly probableforecast intragroup transaction may qualify as a hedged item in a cash flow hedge, provided that the transactionis denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity entering into that transaction andthat the foreign currency risk will affect consolidated profit or loss. For this purpose an entity can be a parent,subsidiary, associate, joint arrangement or branch. If the foreign currency risk of a forecast intragroup transactiondoes not affect consolidated profit or loss, the intragroup transaction cannot qualify as a hedged item. This isusually the case for royalty payments, interest payments or management charges between members of the samegroup, unless there is a related external transaction. However, when the foreign currency risk of a forecastintragroup transaction will affect consolidated profit or loss, the intragroup transaction can qualify as a hedgeditem. An example is forecast sales or purchases of inventories between members of the same group if there is anonward sale of the inventory to a party external to the group. Similarly, a forecast intragroup sale of plant andequipment from the group entity that manufactured it to a group entity that will use the plant and equipment inits operations may affect consolidated profit or loss. This could occur, for example, because the plant andequipment will be depreciated by the purchasing entity and the amount initially recognised for the plant andequipment may change if the forecast intragroup transaction is denominated in a currency other than thefunctional currency of the purchasing entity.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201595A

B6.3.6If a hedge of a forecast intragroup transaction qualifies for hedge accounting, any gain or loss is recognised in,and taken out of, other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11. The relevant period orperiods during which the foreign currency risk of the hedged transaction affects profit or loss is when it affectsconsolidated profit or loss.

Designation of Hedged Items

B6.3.7A component is a hedged item that is less than the entire item. Consequently, a component reflects only someof the risks of the item of which it is a part or reflects the risks only to some extent (for example, whendesignating a proportion of an item).

Risk Components

B6.3.8To be eligible for designation as a hedged item, a risk component must be a separately identifiable componentof the financial or the non-financial item, and the changes in the cash flows or the fair value of the itemattributable to changes in that risk component must be reliably measurable.

B6.3.9When identifying what risk components qualify for designation as a hedged item, an entity assesses such riskcomponents within the context of the particular market structure to which the risk or risks relate and in which thehedging activity takes place. Such a determination requires an evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances,which differ by risk and market.

B6.3.10When designating risk components as hedged items, an entity considers whether the risk components areexplicitly specified in a contract (contractually specified risk components) or whether they are implicit in the fairvalue or the cash flows of an item of which they are a part (non-contractually specified risk components).Non-contractually specified risk components can relate to items that are not a contract (for example, forecasttransactions) or contracts that do not explicitly specify the component (for example, a firm commitment thatincludes only one single price instead of a pricing formula that references different underlying). For example:

(a) Entity A has a long-term supply contract for natural gas that is priced using a contractually specifiedformula that references commodities and other factors (for example, gas oil, fuel oil and other componentssuch as transport charges). Entity A hedges the gas oil component in that supply contract using a gasoil forward contract. Because the gas oil component is specified by the terms and conditions of thesupply contract it is a contractually specified risk component. Hence, because of the pricing formula,Entity A concludes that the gas oil price exposure is separately identifiable. At the same time, there is amarket for gas oil forward contracts. Hence, Entity A concludes that the gas oil price exposure is reliablymeasurable. Consequently, the gas oil price exposure in the supply contract is a risk component that iseligible for designation as a hedged item.

(b) Entity B hedges its future coffee purchases based on its production forecast. Hedging starts up to 15months before delivery for part of the forecast purchase volume. Entity B increases the hedged volumeover time (as the delivery date approaches). Entity B uses two different types of contracts to manage itscoffee price risk:

(i) exchange-traded coffee futures contracts; and

(ii) coffee supply contracts for Arabica coffee from Colombia delivered to a specific manufacturingsite. These contracts price a tonne of coffee based on the exchange-traded coffee futures contractprice plus a fixed price differential plus a variable logistics services charge using a pricing formula.The coffee supply contract is an executory contract in accordance with which Entity B takes actualdelivery of coffee.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201596A

For deliveries that relate to the current harvest, entering into the coffee supply contracts allows EntityB to fix the price differential between the actual coffee quality purchased (Arabica coffee from Colombia)and the benchmark quality that is the underlying of the exchange-traded futures contract. However, fordeliveries that relate to the next harvest, the coffee supply contracts are not yet available, so the pricedifferential cannot be fixed. Entity B uses exchange-traded coffee futures contracts to hedge thebenchmark quality component of its coffee price risk for deliveries that relate to the current harvest aswell as the next harvest. Entity B determines that it is exposed to three different risks: coffee price riskreflecting the benchmark quality, coffee price risk reflecting the difference (spread) between the price forthe benchmark quality coffee and the particular Arabica coffee from Colombia that it actually receives,and the variable logistics costs. For deliveries related to the current harvest, after Entity B enters into acoffee supply contract, the coffee price risk reflecting the benchmark quality is a contractually specifiedrisk component because the pricing formula includes an indexation to the exchange-traded coffeefutures contract price. Entity B concludes that this risk component is separately identifiable and reliablymeasurable. For deliveries related to the next harvest, Entity B has not yet entered into any coffeesupply contracts (ie those deliveries are forecast transactions). Hence, the coffee price risk reflectingthe benchmark quality is a non-contractually specified risk component. Entity B’s analysis of the marketstructure takes into account how eventual deliveries of the particular coffee that it receives are priced.Hence, on the basis of this analysis of the market structure, Entity B concludes that the forecasttransactions also involve the coffee price risk that reflects the benchmark quality as a risk componentthat is separately identifiable and reliably measurable even though it is not contractually specified.Consequently, Entity B may designate hedging relationships on a risk components basis (for the coffeeprice risk that reflects the benchmark quality) for coffee supply contracts as well as forecast transactions.

(c) Entity C hedges part of its future jet fuel purchases on the basis of its consumption forecast up to 24months before delivery and increases the volume that it hedges over time. Entity C hedges this exposureusing different types of contracts depending on the time horizon of the hedge, which affects the marketliquidity of the derivatives. For the longer time horizons (12–24 months) Entity C uses crude oil contractsbecause only these have sufficient market liquidity. For time horizons of 6–12 months Entity C uses gasoil derivatives because they are sufficiently liquid. For time horizons up to six months Entity C uses jetfuel contracts. Entity C’s analysis of the market structure for oil and oil products and its evaluation ofthe relevant facts and circumstances is as follows:

(i) Entity C operates in a geographical area in which Brent is the crude oil benchmark. Crude oil is araw material benchmark that affects the price of various refined oil products as their most basicinput. Gas oil is a benchmark for refined oil products, which is used as a pricing reference for oildistillates more generally. This is also reflected in the types of derivative financial instruments forthe crude oil and refined oil products markets of the environment in which Entity C operates,such as:

the benchmark crude oil futures contract, which is for Brent crude oil;

the benchmark gas oil futures contract, which is used as the pricing reference for distillates—for example, jet fuel spread derivatives cover the price differential between jet fuel and thatbenchmark gas oil; and

the benchmark gas oil crack spread derivative (ie the derivative for the price differentialbetween crude oil and gas oil—a refining margin), which is indexed to Brent crude oil.

(ii) the pricing of refined oil products does not depend on which particular crude oil is processed bya particular refinery because those refined oil products (such as gas oil or jet fuel) are standardisedproducts.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201597A

Hence, Entity C concludes that the price risk of its jet fuel purchases includes a crude oil price riskcomponent based on Brent crude oil and a gas oil price risk component, even though crude oil and gasoil are not specified in any contractual arrangement. Entity C concludes that these two risk componentsare separately identifiable and reliably measurable even though they are not contractually specified.Consequently, Entity C may designate hedging relationships for forecast jet fuel purchases on a riskcomponents basis (for crude oil or gas oil). This analysis also means that if, for example, Entity C usedcrude oil derivatives based on West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, changes in the price differentialbetween Brent crude oil and WTI crude oil would cause hedge ineffectiveness.

(d) Entity D holds a fixed-rate debt instrument. This instrument is issued in an environment with a market inwhich a large variety of similar debt instruments are compared by their spreads to a benchmark rate (forexample, LIBOR) and variable-rate instruments in that environment are typically indexed to that benchmarkrate. Interest rate swaps are frequently used to manage interest rate risk on the basis of that benchmarkrate, irrespective of the spread of debt instruments to that benchmark rate. The price of fixed-rate debtinstruments varies directly in response to changes in the benchmark rate as they happen. Entity Dconcludes that the benchmark rate is a component that can be separately identified and reliably measured.Consequently, Entity D may designate hedging relationships for the fixed-rate debt instrument on a riskcomponent basis for the benchmark interest rate risk.

B6.3.11When designating a risk component as a hedged item, the hedge accounting requirements apply to that riskcomponent in the same way as they apply to other hedged items that are not risk components. For example, thequalifying criteria apply, including that the hedging relationship must meet the hedge effectiveness requirements,and any hedge ineffectiveness must be measured and recognised.

B6.3.12An entity can also designate only changes in the cash flows or fair value of a hedged item above or below aspecified price or other variable (a ‘one-sided risk’). The intrinsic value of a purchased option hedging instrument(assuming that it has the same principal terms as the designated risk), but not its time value, reflects a one-sidedrisk in a hedged item. For example, an entity can designate the variability of future cash flow outcomes resultingfrom a price increase of a forecast commodity purchase. In such a situation, the entity designates only cashflow losses that result from an increase in the price above the specified level. The hedged risk does not includethe time value of a purchased option, because the time value is not a component of the forecast transaction thataffects profit or loss.

B6.3.13There is a rebuttable presumption that unless inflation risk is contractually specified, it is not separatelyidentifiable and reliably measurable and hence cannot be designated as a risk component of a financial instrument.However, in limited cases, it is possible to identify a risk component for inflation risk that is separately identifiableand reliably measurable because of the particular circumstances of the inflation environment and the relevantdebt market.

B6.3.14For example, an entity issues debt in an environment in which inflation-linked bonds have a volume and termstructure that results in a sufficiently liquid market that allows constructing a term structure of zero-coupon realinterest rates. This means that for the respective currency, inflation is a relevant factor that is separatelyconsidered by the debt markets. In those circumstances the inflation risk component could be determined bydiscounting the cash flows of the hedged debt instrument using the term structure of zero-coupon real interestrates (ie in a manner similar to how a risk-free (nominal) interest rate component can be determined). Conversely,in many cases an inflation risk component is not separately identifiable and reliably measurable. For example, anentity issues only nominal interest rate debt in an environment with a market for inflation-linked bonds that isnot sufficiently liquid to allow a term structure of zero-coupon real interest rates to be constructed. In this casethe analysis of the market structure and of the facts and circumstances does not support the entity concludingthat inflation is a relevant factor that is separately considered by the debt markets. Hence, the entity cannotovercome the rebuttable presumption that inflation risk that is not contractually specified is not separatelyidentifiable and reliably measurable. Consequently, an inflation risk component would not be eligible for

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201598A

designation as the hedged item. This applies irrespective of any inflation hedging instrument that the entity hasactually entered into. In particular, the entity cannot simply impute the terms and conditions of the actualinflation hedging instrument by projecting its terms and conditions onto the nominal interest rate debt.

B6.3.15A contractually specified inflation risk component of the cash flows of a recognised inflation-linked bond(assuming that there is no requirement to account for an embedded derivative separately) is separatelyidentifiable and reliably measurable, as long as other cash flows of the instrument are not affected by theinflation risk component.

Components of a Nominal Amount

B6.3.16There are two types of components of nominal amounts that can be designated as the hedged item in a hedgingrelationship: a component that is a proportion of an entire item or a layer component. The type of componentchanges the accounting outcome. An entity shall designate the component for accounting purposes consistentlywith its risk management objective.

B6.3.17An example of a component that is a proportion is 50 per cent of the contractual cash flows of a loan.

B6.3.18A layer component may be specified from a defined, but open, population, or from a defined nominal amount.Examples include:

(a) part of a monetary transaction volume, for example, the next FC10 cash flows from sales denominated ina foreign currency after the first FC20 in March 201X;4

(b) a part of a physical volume, for example, the bottom layer, measuring 5 million cubic metres, of thenatural gas stored in location XYZ;

(c) a part of a physical or other transaction volume, for example, the first 100 barrels of the oil purchases inJune 201X or the first 100 MWh of electricity sales in June 201X; or

(d) a layer from the nominal amount of the hedged item, for example, the last Rs.80 million of a Rs.100 millionfirm commitment, the bottom layer of Rs.20 million of a Rs.100 million fixed-rate bond or the top layer ofRs.30 million from a total amount of Rs.100 million of fixed-rate debt that can be prepaid at fair value (thedefined nominal amount is Rs.100 million).

B6.3.19If a layer component is designated in a fair value hedge, an entity shall specify it from a defined nominal amount.To comply with the requirements for qualifying fair value hedges, an entity shall remeasure the hedged item forfair value changes (ie remeasure the item for fair value changes attributable to the hedged risk). The fair valuehedge adjustment must be recognised in profit or loss no later than when the item is derecognised. Consequently,it is necessary to track the item to which the fair value hedge adjustment relates. For a layer component in a fairvalue hedge, this requires an entity to track the nominal amount from which it is defined. For example, inparagraph B6.3.18(d), the total defined nominal amount of Rs.100 million must be tracked in order to track thebottom layer of Rs.20 million or the top layer of Rs.30 million.

B6.3.20A layer component that includes a prepayment option is not eligible to be designated as a hedged item in a fairvalue hedge if the prepayment option’s fair value is affected by changes in the hedged risk, unless the designatedlayer includes the effect of the related prepayment option when determining the change in the fair value of thehedged item.

4 In this Standard monetary amounts are denominated in 'currency units' (CU) and 'foreign currency units' (FC).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201599A

Relationship between Components and the Total Cash Flows of an Item

B6.3.21If a component of the cash flows of a financial or a non-financial item is designated as the hedged item, thatcomponent must be less than or equal to the total cash flows of the entire item. However, all of the cash flowsof the entire item may be designated as the hedged item and hedged for only one particular risk (for example,only for those changes that are attributable to changes in LIBOR or a benchmark commodity price).

B6.3.22For example, in the case of a financial liability whose effective interest rate is below LIBOR, an entity cannotdesignate:

(a) a component of the liability equal to interest at LIBOR (plus the principal amount in case of a fair valuehedge); and

(b) a negative residual component.

B6.3.23However, in the case of a fixed-rate financial liability whose effective interest rate is (for example) 100 basispoints below LIBOR, an entity can designate as the hedged item the change in the value of that entire liability(ie principal plus interest at LIBOR minus 100 basis points) that is attributable to changes in LIBOR. If a fixed-rate financial instrument is hedged some time after its origination and interest rates have changed in themeantime, the entity can designate a risk component equal to a benchmark rate that is higher than the contractualrate paid on the item. The entity can do so provided that the benchmark rate is less than the effective interestrate calculated on the assumption that the entity had purchased the instrument on the day when it firstdesignates the hedged item. For example, assume that an entity originates a fixed-rate financial asset of Rs.100that has an effective interest rate of 6 per cent at a time when LIBOR is 4 per cent. It begins to hedge that assetsome time later when LIBOR has increased to 8 per cent and the fair value of the asset has decreased to Rs.90.The entity calculates that if it had purchased the asset on the date it first designates the related LIBOR interestrate risk as the hedged item, the effective yield of the asset based on its then fair value of Rs.90 would have been9.5 per cent. Because LIBOR is less than this effective yield, the entity can designate a LIBOR component of 8per cent that consists partly of the contractual interest cash flows and partly of the difference between thecurrent fair value (ie Rs.90) and the amount repayable on maturity (ie Rs.100).

B6.3.24If a variable-rate financial liability bears interest of (for example) three-month LIBOR minus 20 basis points (witha floor at zero basis points), an entity can designate as the hedged item the change in the cash flows of thatentire liability (ie three-month LIBOR minus 20 basis points—including the floor) that is attributable to changesin LIBOR. Hence, as long as the three-month LIBOR forward curve for the remaining life of that liability does notfall below 20 basis points, the hedged item has the same cash flow variability as a liability that bears interest atthree-month LIBOR with a zero or positive spread. However, if the three-month LIBOR forward curve for theremaining life of that liability (or a part of it) falls below 20 basis points, the hedged item has a lower cash flowvariability than a liability that bears interest at three-month LIBOR with a zero or positive spread.

B6.3.25A similar example of a non-financial item is a specific type of crude oil from a particular oil field that is priced offthe relevant benchmark crude oil. If an entity sells that crude oil under a contract using a contractual pricingformula that sets the price per barrel at the benchmark crude oil price minus Rs.10 with a floor of Rs.15, the entitycan designate as the hedged item the entire cash flow variability under the sales contract that is attributable tothe change in the benchmark crude oil price. However, the entity cannot designate a component that is equal tothe full change in the benchmark crude oil price. Hence, as long as the forward price (for each delivery) does notfall below Rs.25, the hedged item has the same cash flow variability as a crude oil sale at the benchmark crudeoil price (or with a positive spread). However, if the forward price for any delivery falls below Rs.25, the hedgeditem has a lower cash flow variability than a crude oil sale at the benchmark crude oil price (or with a positivespread).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015100A

Qualifying Criteria for Hedge Accounting (Section 6.4)

Hedge Effectiveness

B6.4.1Hedge effectiveness is the extent to which changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedging instrumentoffset changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedged item (for example, when the hedged item is a riskcomponent, the relevant change in fair value or cash flows of an item is the one that is attributable to the hedgedrisk). Hedge ineffectiveness is the extent to which the changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedginginstrument are greater or less than those on the hedged item.

B6.4.2When designating a hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, an entity shall analyse the sources ofhedge ineffectiveness that are expected to affect the hedging relationship during its term. This analysis (includingany updates in accordance with paragraph B6.5.21 arising from rebalancing a hedging relationship) is the basisfor the entity’s assessment of meeting the hedge effectiveness requirements.

B6.4.3For the avoidance of doubt, the effects of replacing the original counterparty with a clearing counterparty andmaking the associated changes as described in paragraph 6.5.6 shall be reflected in the measurement of thehedging instrument and therefore in the assessment of hedge effectiveness and the measurement of hedgeeffectiveness.

Economic Relationship between the Hedged Item and the Hedging Instrument

B6.4.4The requirement that an economic relationship exists means that the hedging instrument and the hedged itemhave values that generally move in the opposite direction because of the same risk, which is the hedged risk.Hence, there must be an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and the value of the hedged itemwill systematically change in response to movements in either the same underlying or underlying that areeconomically related in such a way that they respond in a similar way to the risk that is being hedged (forexample, Brent and WTI crude oil).

B6.4.5If the underlying are not the same but are economically related, there can be situations in which the values ofthe hedging instrument and the hedged item move in the same direction, for example, because the pricedifferential between the two related underlying changes while the underlying themselves do not movesignificantly. That is still consistent with an economic relationship between the hedging instrument and thehedged item if the values of the hedging instrument and the hedged item are still expected to typically move inthe opposite direction when the underlying move.

B6.4.6The assessment of whether an economic relationship exists includes an analysis of the possible behaviour ofthe hedging relationship during its term to ascertain whether it can be expected to meet the risk managementobjective. The mere existence of a statistical correlation between two variables does not, by itself, support avalid conclusion that an economic relationship exists.

The Effect of Credit Risk

B6.4.7Because the hedge accounting model is based on a general notion of offset between gains and losses on thehedging instrument and the hedged item, hedge effectiveness is determined not only by the economic relationshipbetween those items (ie the changes in their underlying) but also by the effect of credit risk on the value of boththe hedging instrument and the hedged item. The effect of credit risk means that even if there is an economicrelationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the level of offset might become erratic. Thiscan result from a change in the credit risk of either the hedging instrument or the hedged item that is of such amagnitude that the credit risk dominates the value changes that result from the economic relationship (ie theeffect of the changes in the underlying). A level of magnitude that gives rise to dominance is one that wouldresult in the loss (or gain) from credit risk frustrating the effect of changes in the underlying on the value of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015101A

hedging instrument or the hedged item, even if those changes were significant. Conversely, if during a particularperiod there is little change in the underlying, the fact that even small credit risk-related changes in the value ofthe hedging instrument or the hedged item might affect the value more than the underlying does not createdominance.

B6.4.8An example of credit risk dominating a hedging relationship is when an entity hedges an exposure to commodityprice risk using an uncollateralised derivative. If the counterparty to that derivative experiences a severedeterioration in its credit standing, the effect of the changes in the counterparty’s credit standing mightoutweigh the effect of changes in the commodity price on the fair value of the hedging instrument, whereaschanges in the value of the hedged item depend largely on the commodity price changes.

Hedge Ratio

B6.4.9In accordance with the hedge effectiveness requirements, the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship must bethe same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the entity actually hedges and the quantityof the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item. Hence, if an entityhedges less than 100 per cent of the exposure on an item, such as 85 per cent, it shall designate the hedgingrelationship using a hedge ratio that is the same as that resulting from 85 per cent of the exposure and thequantity of the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses to hedge those 85 per cent. Similarly, if, forexample, an entity hedges an exposure using a nominal amount of 40 units of a financial instrument, it shalldesignate the hedging relationship using a hedge ratio that is the same as that resulting from that quantity of40 units (ie the entity must not use a hedge ratio based on a higher quantity of units that it might hold in totalor a lower quantity of units) and the quantity of the hedged item that it actually hedges with those 40 units.

B6.4.10However, the designation of the hedging relationship using the same hedge ratio as that resulting from thequantities of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses shall not reflect animbalance between the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that would in turn createhedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognised or not) that could result in an accounting outcomethat would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. Hence, for the purpose of designating ahedging relationship, an entity must adjust the hedge ratio that results from the quantities of the hedged itemand the hedging instrument that the entity actually uses if that is needed to avoid such an imbalance.

B6.4.11Examples of relevant considerations in assessing whether an accounting outcome is inconsistent with thepurpose of hedge accounting are:

(a) whether the intended hedge ratio is established to avoid recognising hedge ineffectiveness for cash flowhedges, or to achieve fair value hedge adjustments for more hedged items with the aim of increasing the useof fair value accounting, but without offsetting fair value changes of the hedging instrument; and

(b) whether there is a commercial reason for the particular weightings of the hedged item and the hedginginstrument, even though that creates hedge ineffectiveness. For example, an entity enters into anddesignates a quantity of the hedging instrument that is not the quantity that it determined as the besthedge of the hedged item because the standard volume of the hedging instruments does not allow it toenter into that exact quantity of hedging instrument (a ‘lot size issue’). An example is an entity that hedges100 tonnes of coffee purchases with standard coffee futures contracts that have a contract size of 37,500lbs (pounds). The entity could only use either five or six contracts (equivalent to 85.0 and 102.1 tonnesrespectively) to hedge the purchase volume of 100 tonnes. In that case, the entity designates the hedgingrelationship using the hedge ratio that results from the number of coffee futures contracts that it actuallyuses, because the hedge ineffectiveness resulting from the mismatch in the weightings of the hedged itemand the hedging instrument would not result in an accounting outcome that is inconsistent with thepurpose of hedge accounting.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015102A

Frequency of Assessing whether the Hedge Effectiveness Requirements are Met

B6.4.12An entity shall assess at the inception of the hedging relationship, and on an ongoing basis, whether a hedgingrelationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements. At a minimum, an entity shall perform the ongoingassessment at each reporting date or upon a significant change in the circumstances affecting the hedgeeffectiveness requirements, whichever comes first. The assessment relates to expectations about hedgeeffectiveness and is therefore only forward-looking.

Methods for Assessing whether the Hedge Effectiveness Requirements are Met

B6.4.13This Standard does not specify a method for assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedgeeffectiveness requirements. However, an entity shall use a method that captures the relevant characteristics ofthe hedging relationship including the sources of hedge ineffectiveness. Depending on those factors, themethod can be a qualitative or a quantitative assessment.

B6.4.14For example, when the critical terms (such as the nominal amount, maturity and underlying) of the hedginginstrument and the hedged item match or are closely aligned, it might be possible for an entity to conclude onthe basis of a qualitative assessment of those critical terms that the hedging instrument and the hedged itemhave values that will generally move in the opposite direction because of the same risk and hence that aneconomic relationship exists between the hedged item and the hedging instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4–B6.4.6).

B6.4.15The fact that a derivative is in or out of the money when it is designated as a hedging instrument does not initself mean that a qualitative assessment is inappropriate. It depends on the circumstances whether hedgeineffectiveness arising from that fact could have a magnitude that a qualitative assessment would not adequatelycapture.

B6.4.16Conversely, if the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the hedged item are not closely aligned, there isan increased level of uncertainty about the extent of offset. Consequently, the hedge effectiveness during theterm of the hedging relationship is more difficult to predict. In such a situation it might only be possible for anentity to conclude on the basis of a quantitative assessment that an economic relationship exists between thehedged item and the hedging instrument (see paragraphs B6.4.4–B6.4.6). In some situations a quantitativeassessment might also be needed to assess whether the hedge ratio used for designating the hedging relationshipmeets the hedge effectiveness requirements (see paragraphs B6.4.9–B6.4.11). An entity can use the same ordifferent methods for those two different purposes.

B6.4.17If there are changes in circumstances that affect hedge effectiveness, an entity may have to change the methodfor assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements in order to ensurethat the relevant characteristics of the hedging relationship, including the sources of hedge ineffectiveness, arestill captured.

B6.4.18An entity’s risk management is the main source of information to perform the assessment of whether a hedgingrelationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements. This means that the management information (oranalysis) used for decision-making purposes can be used as a basis for assessing whether a hedging relationshipmeets the hedge effectiveness requirements.

B6.4.19An entity’s documentation of the hedging relationship includes how it will assess the hedge effectivenessrequirements, including the method or methods used. The documentation of the hedging relationship shall beupdated for any changes to the methods (see paragraph B6.4.17).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015103A

Accounting for Qualifying Hedging Relationships (Section 6.5)

B6.5.1An example of a fair value hedge is a hedge of exposure to changes in the fair value of a fixed-rate debtinstrument arising from changes in interest rates. Such a hedge could be entered into by the issuer or by theholder.

B6.5.2The purpose of a cash flow hedge is to defer the gain or loss on the hedging instrument to a period or periodsin which the hedged expected future cash flows affect profit or loss. An example of a cash flow hedge is the useof a swap to change floating rate debt (whether measured at amortised cost or fair value) to fixed-rate debt (iea hedge of a future transaction in which the future cash flows being hedged are the future interest payments).Conversely, a forecast purchase of an equity instrument that, once acquired, will be accounted for at fair valuethrough profit or loss, is an example of an item that cannot be the hedged item in a cash flow hedge, because anygain or loss on the hedging instrument that would be deferred could not be appropriately reclassified to profitor loss during a period in which it would achieve offset. For the same reason, a forecast purchase of an equityinstrument that, once acquired, will be accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value presented in othercomprehensive income also cannot be the hedged item in a cash flow hedge.

B6.5.3A hedge of a firm commitment (for example, a hedge of the change in fuel price relating to an unrecognisedcontractual commitment by an electric utility to purchase fuel at a fixed price) is a hedge of an exposure to achange in fair value. Accordingly, such a hedge is a fair value hedge. However, in accordance with paragraph6.5.4, a hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment could alternatively be accounted for as a cashflow hedge.

Measurement of Hedge Ineffectiveness

B6.5.4When measuring hedge ineffectiveness, an entity shall consider the time value of money. Consequently, theentity determines the value of the hedged item on a present value basis and therefore the change in the valueof the hedged item also includes the effect of the time value of money.

B6.5.5To calculate the change in the value of the hedged item for the purpose of measuring hedge ineffectiveness, anentity may use a derivative that would have terms that match the critical terms of the hedged item (this iscommonly referred to as a ‘hypothetical derivative’), and, for example for a hedge of a forecast transaction,would be calibrated using the hedged price (or rate) level. For example, if the hedge was for a two-sided risk atthe current market level, the hypothetical derivative would represent a hypothetical forward contract that iscalibrated to a value of nil at the time of designation of the hedging relationship. If the hedge was for examplefor a one-sided risk, the hypothetical derivative would represent the intrinsic value of a hypothetical option thatat the time of designation of the hedging relationship is at the money if the hedged price level is the currentmarket level, or out of the money if the hedged price level is above (or, for a hedge of a long position, below) thecurrent market level. Using a hypothetical derivative is one possible way of calculating the change in the valueof the hedged item. The hypothetical derivative replicates the hedged item and hence results in the sameoutcome as if that change in value was determined by a different approach. Hence, using a ‘hypotheticalderivative’ is not a method in its own right but a mathematical expedient that can only be used to calculate thevalue of the hedged item. Consequently, a ‘hypothetical derivative’ cannot be used to include features in thevalue of the hedged item that only exist in the hedging instrument (but not in the hedged item). An example isdebt denominated in a foreign currency (irrespective of whether it is fixed-rate or variable-rate debt). Whenusing a hypothetical derivative to calculate the change in the value of such debt or the present value of thecumulative change in its cash flows, the hypothetical derivative cannot simply impute a charge for exchangingdifferent currencies even though actual derivatives under which different currencies are exchanged mightinclude such a charge (for example, cross-currency interest rate swaps).

B6.5.6The change in the value of the hedged item determined using a hypothetical derivative may also be used for thepurpose of assessing whether a hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015104A

Rebalancing the Hedging Relationship and Changes to the Hedge Ratio

B6.5.7Rebalancing refers to the adjustments made to the designated quantities of the hedged item or the hedginginstrument of an already existing hedging relationship for the purpose of maintaining a hedge ratio that complieswith the hedge effectiveness requirements. Changes to designated quantities of a hedged item or of a hedginginstrument for a different purpose do not constitute rebalancing for the purpose of this Standard.

B6.5.8Rebalancing is accounted for as a continuation of the hedging relationship in accordance with paragraphsB6.5.9–B6.5.21. On rebalancing, the hedge ineffectiveness of the hedging relationship is determined andrecognised immediately before adjusting the hedging relationship.

B6.5.9Adjusting the hedge ratio allows an entity to respond to changes in the relationship between the hedginginstrument and the hedged item that arise from their underlying or risk variables. For example, a hedgingrelationship in which the hedging instrument and the hedged item have different but related underlying changesin response to a change in the relationship between those two underlying (for example, different but relatedreference indices, rates or prices). Hence, rebalancing allows the continuation of a hedging relationship insituations in which the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item changes in a way thatcan be compensated for by adjusting the hedge ratio.

B6.5.10For example, an entity hedges an exposure to Foreign Currency A using a currency derivative that referencesForeign Currency B and Foreign Currencies A and B are pegged (ie their exchange rate is maintained within aband or at an exchange rate set by a Central Bank or other authority). If the exchange rate between ForeignCurrency A and Foreign Currency B were changed (ie a new band or rate was set), rebalancing the hedgingrelationship to reflect the new exchange rate would ensure that the hedging relationship would continue tomeet the hedge effectiveness requirement for the hedge ratio in the new circumstances. In contrast, if there wasa default on the currency derivative, changing the hedge ratio could not ensure that the hedging relationshipwould continue to meet that hedge effectiveness requirement. Hence, rebalancing does not facilitate thecontinuation of a hedging relationship in situations in which the relationship between the hedging instrumentand the hedged item changes in a way that cannot be compensated for by adjusting the hedge ratio.

B6.5.11Not every change in the extent of offset between the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and thehedged item’s fair value or cash flows constitutes a change in the relationship between the hedging instrumentand the hedged item. An entity analyses the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that it expected to affect thehedging relationship during its term and evaluates whether changes in the extent of offset are:

(a) fluctuations around the hedge ratio, which remains valid (ie continues to appropriately reflect the relationshipbetween the hedging instrument and the hedged item); or

(b) an indication that the hedge ratio no longer appropriately reflects the relationship between the hedginginstrument and the hedged item. An entity performs this evaluation against the hedge effectivenessrequirement for the hedge ratio, ie to ensure that the hedging relationship does not reflect an imbalancebetween the weightings of the hedged item and the hedging instrument that would create hedgeineffectiveness (irrespective of whether recognised or not) that could result in an accounting outcome thatwould be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting. Hence, this evaluation requires judgement.

B6.5.12Fluctuation around a constant hedge ratio (and hence the related hedge ineffectiveness) cannot be reduced byadjusting the hedge ratio in response to each particular outcome. Hence, in such circumstances, the change inthe extent of offset is a matter of measuring and recognising hedge ineffectiveness but does not requirerebalancing.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015105A

B6.5.13Conversely, if changes in the extent of offset indicate that the fluctuation is around a hedge ratio that isdifferent from the hedge ratio that is currently used for that hedging relationship, or that there is a trend leadingaway from that hedge ratio, hedge ineffectiveness can be reduced by adjusting the hedge ratio, whereasretaining the hedge ratio would increasingly produce hedge ineffectiveness. Hence, in such circumstances, anentity must evaluate whether the hedging relationship reflects an imbalance between the weightings of thehedged item and the hedging instrument that would create hedge ineffectiveness (irrespective of whetherrecognised or not) that could result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose ofhedge accounting. If the hedge ratio is adjusted, it also affects the measurement and recognition of hedgeineffectiveness because, on rebalancing, the hedge ineffectiveness of the hedging relationship must bedetermined and recognised immediately before adjusting the hedging relationship in accordance with paragraphB6.5.8.

B6.5.14Rebalancing means that, for hedge accounting purposes, after the start of a hedging relationship an entityadjusts the quantities of the hedging instrument or the hedged item in response to changes in circumstancesthat affect the hedge ratio of that hedging relationship. Typically, that adjustment should reflect adjustments inthe quantities of the hedging instrument and the hedged item that it actually uses. However, an entity mustadjust the hedge ratio that results from the quantities of the hedged item or the hedging instrument that itactually uses if:

(a) the hedge ratio that results from changes to the quantities of the hedging instrument or the hedged itemthat the entity actually uses would reflect an imbalance that would create hedge ineffectiveness that couldresult in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purpose of hedge accounting; or

(b) an entity would retain quantities of the hedging instrument and the hedged item that it actually uses,resulting in a hedge ratio that, in new circumstances, would reflect an imbalance that would create hedgeineffectiveness that could result in an accounting outcome that would be inconsistent with the purposeof hedge accounting (i.e. an entity must not create an imbalance by omitting to adjust the hedge ratio).

B6.5.15Rebalancing does not apply if the risk management objective for a hedging relationship has changed. Instead,hedge accounting for that hedging relationship shall be discontinued (despite that an entity might designate anew hedging relationship that involves the hedging instrument or hedged item of the previous hedgingrelationship as described in paragraph B6.5.28).

B6.5.16If a hedging relationship is rebalanced, the adjustment to the hedge ratio can be effected in different ways:

(a) the weighting of the hedged item can be increased (which at the same time reduces the weighting of thehedging instrument) by:

(i) increasing the volume of the hedged item; or

(ii) decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument.

(b) the weighting of the hedging instrument can be increased (which at the same time reduces the weightingof the hedged item) by:

(i) increasing the volume of the hedging instrument; or

(ii) decreasing the volume of the hedged item.

Changes in volume refer to the quantities that are part of the hedging relationship. Hence, decreasesin volumes do not necessarily mean that the items or transactions no longer exist, or are no longer

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015106A

expected to occur, but that they are not part of the hedging relationship. For example, decreasing thevolume of the hedging instrument can result in the entity retaining a derivative, but only part of itmight remain a hedging instrument of the hedging relationship. This could occur if the rebalancingcould be effected only by reducing the volume of the hedging instrument in the hedging relationship,but with the entity retaining the volume that is no longer needed. In that case, the undesignated partof the derivative would be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss (unless it was designatedas a hedging instrument in a different hedging relationship).

B6.5.17Adjusting the hedge ratio by increasing the volume of the hedged item does not affect how the changes in thefair value of the hedging instrument are measured. The measurement of the changes in the value of the hedgeditem related to the previously designated volume also remains unaffected. However, from the date of rebalancing,the changes in the value of the hedged item also include the change in the value of the additional volume of thehedged item. These changes are measured starting from, and by reference to, the date of rebalancing instead ofthe date on which the hedging relationship was designated. For example, if an entity originally hedged a volumeof 100 tonnes of a commodity at a forward price of Rs.80 (the forward price at inception of the hedgingrelationship) and added a volume of 10 tonnes on rebalancing when the forward price was Rs.90, the hedgeditem after rebalancing would comprise two layers: 100 tonnes hedged at Rs.80 and 10 tonnes hedged at Rs.90.

B6.5.18Adjusting the hedge ratio by decreasing the volume of the hedging instrument does not affect how thechanges in the value of the hedged item are measured. The measurement of the changes in the fair value of thehedging instrument related to the volume that continues to be designated also remains unaffected. However,from the date of rebalancing, the volume by which the hedging instrument was decreased is no longer part ofthe hedging relationship. For example, if an entity originally hedged the price risk of a commodity using aderivative volume of 100 tonnes as the hedging instrument and reduces that volume by 10 tonnes on rebalancing,a nominal amount of 90 tonnes of the hedging instrument volume would remain (see paragraph B6.5.16 for theconsequences for the derivative volume (ie the 10 tonnes) that is no longer a part of the hedging relationship).

B6.5.19Adjusting the hedge ratio by increasing the volume of the hedging instrument does not affect how the changesin the value of the hedged item are measured. The measurement of the changes in the fair value of the hedginginstrument related to the previously designated volume also remains unaffected. However, from the date ofrebalancing, the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument also include the changes in the value of theadditional volume of the hedging instrument. The changes are measured starting from, and by reference to, thedate of rebalancing instead of the date on which the hedging relationship was designated. For example, if anentity originally hedged the price risk of a commodity using a derivative volume of 100 tonnes as the hedginginstrument and added a volume of 10 tonnes on rebalancing, the hedging instrument after rebalancing wouldcomprise a total derivative volume of 110 tonnes. The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument is thetotal change in the fair value of the derivatives that make up the total volume of 110 tonnes. These derivativescould (and probably would) have different critical terms, such as their forward rates, because they were enteredinto at different points in time (including the possibility of designating derivatives into hedging relationshipsafter their initial recognition).

B6.5.20Adjusting the hedge ratio by decreasing the volume of the hedged item does not affect how the changes in thefair value of the hedging instrument are measured. The measurement of the changes in the value of the hedgeditem related to the volume that continues to be designated also remains unaffected. However, from the date ofrebalancing, the volume by which the hedged item was decreased is no longer part of the hedging relationship.For example, if an entity originally hedged a volume of 100 tonnes of a commodity at a forward price of Rs.80 andreduces that volume by 10 tonnes on rebalancing, the hedged item after rebalancing would be 90 tonneshedged at Rs.80. The 10 tonnes of the hedged item that are no longer part of the hedging relationship would beaccounted for in accordance with the requirements for the discontinuation of hedge accounting (see paragraphs6.5.6–6.5.7 and B6.5.22–B6.5.28).

B6.5.21When rebalancing a hedging relationship, an entity shall update its analysis of the sources of hedgeineffectiveness that are expected to affect the hedging relationship during its (remaining) term (see paragraphB6.4.2). The documentation of the hedging relationship shall be updated accordingly.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015107A

Discontinuation of Hedge Accounting

B6.5.22Discontinuation of hedge accounting applies prospectively from the date on which the qualifying criteria areno longer met.

B6.5.23An entity shall not de-designate and thereby discontinue a hedging relationship that:

(a) still meets the risk management objective on the basis of which it qualified for hedge accounting (ie theentity still pursues that risk management objective); and

(b) continues to meet all other qualifying criteria (after taking into account any rebalancing of the hedgingrelationship, if applicable).

B6.5.24For the purposes of this Standard, an entity’s risk management strategy is distinguished from its risk managementobjectives. The risk management strategy is established at the highest level at which an entity determines howit manages its risk. Risk management strategies typically identify the risks to which the entity is exposed and setout how the entity responds to them. A risk management strategy is typically in place for a longer period andmay include some flexibility to react to changes in circumstances that occur while that strategy is in place (forexample, different interest rate or commodity price levels that result in a different extent of hedging). This isnormally set out in a general document that is cascaded down through an entity through policies containingmore specific guidelines. In contrast, the risk management objective for a hedging relationship applies at thelevel of a particular hedging relationship. It relates to how the particular hedging instrument that has beendesignated is used to hedge the particular exposure that has been designated as the hedged item. Hence, a riskmanagement strategy can involve many different hedging relationships whose risk management objectivesrelate to executing that overall risk management strategy. For example:

(a) an entity has a strategy of managing its interest rate exposure on debt funding that sets ranges for theoverall entity for the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding. The strategy is to maintain between20 per cent and 40 per cent of the debt at fixed rates. The entity decides from time to time how to execute thisstrategy (ie where it positions itself within the 20 per cent to 40 per cent range for fixed-rate interestexposure) depending on the level of interest rates. If interest rates are low the entity fixes the interest formore debt than when interest rates are high. The entity’s debt is Rs.100 of variable-rate debt of which Rs.30is swapped into a fixed-rate exposure. The entity takes advantage of low interest rates to issue an additionalRs.50 of debt to finance a major investment, which the entity does by issuing a fixed-rate bond. In the lightof the low interest rates, the entity decides to set its fixed interest-rate exposure to 40 per cent of the totaldebt by reducing by Rs.20 the extent to which it previously hedged its variable-rate exposure, resulting inRs.60 of fixed-rate exposure. In this situation the risk management strategy itself remains unchanged.However, in contrast the entity’s execution of that strategy has changed and this means that, for Rs.20 ofvariable-rate exposure that was previously hedged, the risk management objective has changed (ie at thehedging relationship level). Consequently, in this situation hedge accounting must be discontinued forRs.20 of the previously hedged variable-rate exposure. This could involve reducing the swap position bya Rs.20 nominal amount but, depending on the circumstances, an entity might retain that swap volume and,for example, use it for hedging a different exposure or it might become part of a trading book. Conversely,if an entity instead swapped a part of its new fixed-rate debt into a variable-rate exposure, hedge accountingwould have to be continued for its previously hedged variable-rate exposure.

(b) some exposures result from positions that frequently change, for example, the interest rate risk of an openportfolio of debt instruments. The addition of new debt instruments and the derecognition of debtinstruments continuously change that exposure (ie it is different from simply running off a position thatmatures). This is a dynamic process in which both the exposure and the hedging instruments used tomanage it do not remain the same for long. Consequently, an entity with such an exposure frequently

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015108A

adjusts the hedging instruments used to manage the interest rate risk as the exposure changes. Forexample, debt instruments with 24 months’ remaining maturity are designated as the hedged item forinterest rate risk for 24 months. The same procedure is applied to other time buckets or maturity periods.After a short period of time, the entity discontinues all, some or a part of the previously designatedhedging relationships for maturity periods and designates new hedging relationships for maturity periodson the basis of their size and the hedging instruments that exist at that time. The discontinuation of hedgeaccounting in this situation reflects that those hedging relationships are established in such a way that theentity looks at a new hedging instrument and a new hedged item instead of the hedging instrument and thehedged item that were designated previously. The risk management strategy remains the same, but there isno risk management objective that continues for those previously designated hedging relationships,which as such no longer exist. In such a situation, the discontinuation of hedge accounting applies to theextent to which the risk management objective has changed. This depends on the situation of an entity andcould, for example, affect all or only some hedging relationships of a maturity period, or only part of ahedging relationship.

(c) an entity has a risk management strategy whereby it manages the foreign currency risk of forecast salesand the resulting receivables. Within that strategy the entity manages the foreign currency risk as aparticular hedging relationship only up to the point of the recognition of the receivable. Thereafter, theentity no longer manages the foreign currency risk on the basis of that particular hedging relationship.Instead, it manages together the foreign currency risk from receivables, payables and derivatives (that donot relate to forecast transactions that are still pending) denominated in the same foreign currency. Foraccounting purposes, this works as a ‘natural’ hedge because the gains and losses from the foreigncurrency risk on all of those items are immediately recognised in profit or loss. Consequently, for accountingpurposes, if the hedging relationship is designated for the period up to the payment date, it must bediscontinued when the receivable is recognised, because the risk management objective of the originalhedging relationship no longer applies. The foreign currency risk is now managed within the same strategybut on a different basis. Conversely, if an entity had a different risk management objective and managed theforeign currency risk as one continuous hedging relationship specifically for that forecast sales amountand the resulting receivable until the settlement date, hedge accounting would continue until that date.

B6.5.25The discontinuation of hedge accounting can affect:

(a) a hedging relationship in its entirety; or

(b) a part of a hedging relationship (which means that hedge accounting continues for the remainder of thehedging relationship).

B6.5.26A hedging relationship is discontinued in its entirety when, as a whole, it ceases to meet the qualifying criteria.For example:

(a) the hedging relationship no longer meets the risk management objective on the basis of which it qualifiedfor hedge accounting (ie the entity no longer pursues that risk management objective);

(b) the hedging instrument or instruments have been sold or terminated (in relation to the entire volume thatwas part of the hedging relationship); or

(c) there is no longer an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument or theeffect of credit risk starts to dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015109A

B6.5.27A part of a hedging relationship is discontinued (and hedge accounting continues for its remainder) when onlya part of the hedging relationship ceases to meet the qualifying criteria. For example:

(a) on rebalancing of the hedging relationship, the hedge ratio might be adjusted in such a way that some ofthe volume of the hedged item is no longer part of the hedging relationship (see paragraph B6.5.20);hence, hedge accounting is discontinued only for the volume of the hedged item that is no longer part ofthe hedging relationship; or

(b) when the occurrence of some of the volume of the hedged item that is (or is a component of) a forecasttransaction is no longer highly probable, hedge accounting is discontinued only for the volume of thehedged item whose occurrence is no longer highly probable. However, if an entity has a history of havingdesignated hedges of forecast transactions and having subsequently determined that the forecasttransactions are no longer expected to occur, the entity’s ability to predict forecast transactions accuratelyis called into question when predicting similar forecast transactions. This affects the assessment ofwhether similar forecast transactions are highly probable (see paragraph 6.3.3) and hence whether theyare eligible as hedged items.

B6.5.28An entity can designate a new hedging relationship that involves the hedging instrument or hedged item of aprevious hedging relationship for which hedge accounting was (in part or in its entirety) discontinued. Thisdoes not constitute a continuation of a hedging relationship but is a restart. For example:

(a) a hedging instrument experiences such a severe credit deterioration that the entity replaces it with a newhedging instrument. This means that the original hedging relationship failed to achieve the risk managementobjective and is hence discontinued in its entirety. The new hedging instrument is designated as thehedge of the same exposure that was hedged previously and forms a new hedging relationship. Hence, thechanges in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedged item are measured starting from, and by referenceto, the date of designation of the new hedging relationship instead of the date on which the originalhedging relationship was designated.

(b) a hedging relationship is discontinued before the end of its term. The hedging instrument in that hedgingrelationship can be designated as the hedging instrument in another hedging relationship (for example,when adjusting the hedge ratio on rebalancing by increasing the volume of the hedging instrument orwhen designating a whole new hedging relationship).

Accounting for the Time Value of Options

B6.5.29An option can be considered as being related to a time period because its time value represents a charge forproviding protection for the option holder over a period of time. However, the relevant aspect for the purposeof assessing whether an option hedges a transaction or time-period related hedged item are the characteristicsof that hedged item, including how and when it affects profit or loss. Hence, an entity shall assess the type ofhedged item (see paragraph 6.5.15(a)) on the basis of the nature of the hedged item (regardless of whether thehedging relationship is a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge):

(a) the time value of an option relates to a transaction related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item isa transaction for which the time value has the character of costs of that transaction. An example is whenthe time value of an option relates to a hedged item that results in the recognition of an item whose initialmeasurement includes transaction costs (for example, an entity hedges a commodity purchase, whether itis a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, against the commodity price risk and includes the transactioncosts in the initial measurement of the inventory). As a consequence of including the time value of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015110A

option in the initial measurement of the particular hedged item, the time value affects profit or loss at thesame time as that hedged item. Similarly, an entity that hedges a sale of a commodity, whether it is a forecasttransaction or a firm commitment, would include the time value of the option as part of the cost related tothat sale (hence, the time value would be recognised in profit or loss in the same period as the revenue fromthe hedged sale).

(b) the time value of an option relates to a time-period related hedged item if the nature of the hedged item issuch that the time value has the character of a cost for obtaining protection against a risk over a particularperiod of time (but the hedged item does not result in a transaction that involves the notion of a transactioncost in accordance with (a)). For example, if commodity inventory is hedged against a fair value decreasefor six months using a commodity option with a corresponding life, the time value of the option would beallocated to profit or loss (ie amortised on a systematic and rational basis) over that six-month period.Another example is a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation that is hedged for 18 months usinga foreign-exchange option, which would result in allocating the time value of the option over that 18-monthperiod.

B6.5.30The characteristics of the hedged item, including how and when the hedged item affects profit or loss, alsoaffect the period over which the time value of an option that hedges a time-period related hedged item isamortised, which is consistent with the period over which the option’s intrinsic value can affect profit or loss inaccordance with hedge accounting. For example, if an interest rate option (a cap) is used to provide protectionagainst increases in the interest expense on a floating rate bond, the time value of that cap is amortised to profitor loss over the same period over which any intrinsic value of the cap would affect profit or loss:

(a) if the cap hedges increases in interest rates for the first three years out of a total life of the floating ratebond of five years, the time value of that cap is amortised over the first three years; or

(b) if the cap is a forward start option that hedges increases in interest rates for years two and three out of atotal life of the floating rate bond of five years, the time value of that cap is amortised during years two andthree.

B6.5.31The accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 also applies to a combinationof a purchased and a written option (one being a put option and one being a call option) that at the date ofdesignation as a hedging instrument has a net nil time value (commonly referred to as a ‘zero-cost collar’). Inthat case, an entity shall recognise any changes in time value in other comprehensive income, even though thecumulative change in time value over the total period of the hedging relationship is nil. Hence, if the time valueof the option relates to:

(a) a transaction related hedged item, the amount of time value at the end of the hedging relationship thatadjusts the hedged item or that is reclassified to profit or loss (see paragraph 6.5.15(b)) would be nil.

(b) a time-period related hedged item, the amortisation expense related to the time value is nil.

B6.5.32The accounting for the time value of options in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 applies only to the extent thatthe time value relates to the hedged item (aligned time value). The time value of an option relates to the hedgeditem if the critical terms of the option (such as the nominal amount, life and underlying) are aligned with thehedged item. Hence, if the critical terms of the option and the hedged item are not fully aligned, an entity shalldetermine the aligned time value, ie how much of the time value included in the premium (actual time value)relates to the hedged item (and therefore should be treated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15). An entitydetermines the aligned time value using the valuation of the option that would have critical terms that perfectlymatch the hedged item.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015111A

B6.5.33If the actual time value and the aligned time value differ, an entity shall determine the amount that is accumulatedin a separate component of equity in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 as follows:

(a) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the actual time value is higher than the aligned time value, theentity shall:

(i) determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity on the basis of thealigned time value; and

(ii) account for the differences in the fair value changes between the two time values in profit or loss.

(b) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the actual time value is lower than the aligned time value, theentity shall determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity by reference tothe lower of the cumulative change in fair value of:

(i) the actual time value; and

(ii) the aligned time value.

Any remainder of the change in fair value of the actual time value shall be recognised in profit orloss.

Accounting for the Forward Element of Forward Contracts and Foreign Currency Basis Spreads of FinancialInstruments

B6.5.34A forward contract can be considered as being related to a time period because its forward element representscharges for a period of time (which is the tenor for which it is determined). However, the relevant aspect for thepurpose of assessing whether a hedging instrument hedges a transaction or time-period related hedged itemare the characteristics of that hedged item, including how and when it affects profit or loss. Hence, an entityshall assess the type of hedged item (see paragraphs 6.5.16 and 6.5.15(a)) on the basis of the nature of thehedged item (regardless of whether the hedging relationship is a cash flow hedge or a fair value hedge):

(a) the forward element of a forward contract relates to a transaction related hedged item if the nature of thehedged item is a transaction for which the forward element has the character of costs of that transaction.An example is when the forward element relates to a hedged item that results in the recognition of an itemwhose initial measurement includes transaction costs (for example, an entity hedges an inventory purchasedenominated in a foreign currency, whether it is a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, againstforeign currency risk and includes the transaction costs in the initial measurement of the inventory). Asa consequence of including the forward element in the initial measurement of the particular hedged item,the forward element affects profit or loss at the same time as that hedged item. Similarly, an entity thathedges a sale of a commodity denominated in a foreign currency against foreign currency risk, whether itis a forecast transaction or a firm commitment, would include the forward element as part of the cost thatis related to that sale (hence, the forward element would be recognised in profit or loss in the same periodas the revenue from the hedged sale).

(b) the forward element of a forward contract relates to a time-period related hedged item if the nature of thehedged item is such that the forward element has the character of a cost for obtaining protection againsta risk over a particular period of time (but the hedged item does not result in a transaction that involvesthe notion of a transaction cost in accordance with (a)). For example, if commodity inventory is hedgedagainst changes in fair value for six months using a commodity forward contract with a correspondinglife, the forward element of the forward contract would be allocated to profit or loss (ie amortised on asystematic and rational basis) over that six-month period. Another example is a hedge of a net investment

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015112A

in a foreign operation that is hedged for 18 months using a foreign-exchange forward contract, whichwould result in allocating the forward element of the forward contract over that 18-month period.

B6.5.35The characteristics of the hedged item, including how and when the hedged item affects profit or loss, alsoaffect the period over which the forward element of a forward contract that hedges a time-period related hedgeditem is amortised, which is over the period to which the forward element relates. For example, if a forwardcontract hedges the exposure to variability in three-month interest rates for a three-month period that starts insix months’ time, the forward element is amortised during the period that spans months seven to nine.

B6.5.36The accounting for the forward element of a forward contract in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 also appliesif, at the date on which the forward contract is designated as a hedging instrument, the forward element is nil.In that case, an entity shall recognise any fair value changes attributable to the forward element in othercomprehensive income, even though the cumulative fair value change attributable to the forward element overthe total period of the hedging relationship is nil. Hence, if the forward element of a forward contract relates to:

(a) a transaction related hedged item, the amount in respect of the forward element at the end of thehedging relationship that adjusts the hedged item or that is reclassified to profit or loss (see paragraphs6.5.15(b) and 6.5.16) would be nil.

(b) a time-period related hedged item, the amortisation amount related to the forward element is nil.

B6.5.37The accounting for the forward element of forward contracts in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 applies onlyto the extent that the forward element relates to the hedged item (aligned forward element). The forward elementof a forward contract relates to the hedged item if the critical terms of the forward contract (such as the nominalamount, life and underlying) are aligned with the hedged item. Hence, if the critical terms of the forward contractand the hedged item are not fully aligned, an entity shall determine the aligned forward element, ie how much ofthe forward element included in the forward contract (actual forward element) relates to the hedged item (andtherefore should be treated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16). An entity determines the aligned forwardelement using the valuation of the forward contract that would have critical terms that perfectly match thehedged item.

B6.5.38If the actual forward element and the aligned forward element differ, an entity shall determine the amount that isaccumulated in a separate component of equity in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 as follows:

(a) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the absolute amount of the actual forward element is higherthan that of the aligned forward element the entity shall:

(i) determine the amount that is accumulated in a separate component of equity on the basis of thealigned forward element; and

(ii) account for the differences in the fair value changes between the two forward elements in profit orloss.

(b) if, at inception of the hedging relationship, the absolute amount of the actual forward element is lowerthan that of the aligned forward element, the entity shall determine the amount that is accumulated in aseparate component of equity by reference to the lower of the cumulative change in fair value of:

(i) the absolute amount of the actual forward element; and

(ii) the absolute amount of the aligned forward element.

Any remainder of the change in fair value of the actual forward element shall be recognised in profitor loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015113A

B6.5.39When an entity separates the foreign currency basis spread from a financial instrument and excludes it from thedesignation of that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see paragraph 6.2.4(b)), the applicationguidance in paragraphs B6.5.34–B6.5.38 applies to the foreign currency basis spread in the same manner as it isapplied to the forward element of a forward contract.

Hedge of a Group of Items (Section 6.6)

Hedge of a Net Position

Eligibility for Hedge Accounting and Designation of a Net Position

B6.6.1A net position is eligible for hedge accounting only if an entity hedges on a net basis for risk managementpurposes. Whether an entity hedges in this way is a matter of fact (not merely of assertion or documentation).Hence, an entity cannot apply hedge accounting on a net basis solely to achieve a particular accountingoutcome if that would not reflect its risk management approach. Net position hedging must form part of anestablished risk management strategy. Normally this would be approved by key management personnel asdefined in LKAS 24.

B6.6.2For example, Entity A, whose functional currency is its local currency, has a firm commitment to pay FC150,000for advertising expenses in nine months’ time and a firm commitment to sell finished goods for FC150,000 in 15months’ time. Entity A enters into a foreign currency derivative that settles in nine months’ time under which itreceives FC100 and pays Rs.70. Entity A has no other exposures to FC. Entity A does not manage foreigncurrency risk on a net basis. Hence, Entity A cannot apply hedge accounting for a hedging relationshipbetween the foreign currency derivative and a net position of FC100 (consisting of FC150,000 of the firmpurchase commitment—ie advertising services—and FC149,900 (of the FC150,000) of the firm sale commitment)for a nine-month period.

B6.6.3If Entity A did manage foreign currency risk on a net basis and did not enter into the foreign currency derivative(because it increases its foreign currency risk exposure instead of reducing it), then the entity would be in anatural hedged position for nine months. Normally, this hedged position would not be reflected in the financialstatements because the transactions are recognised in different reporting periods in the future. The nil netposition would be eligible for hedge accounting only if the conditions in paragraph 6.6.6 are met.

B6.6.4When a group of items that constitute a net position is designated as a hedged item, an entity shall designatethe overall group of items that includes the items that can make up the net position. An entity is not permittedto designate a non-specific abstract amount of a net position. For example, an entity has a group of firm salecommitments in nine months’ time for FC100 and a group of firm purchase commitments in 18 months’ time forFC120. The entity cannot designate an abstract amount of a net position up to FC20. Instead, it must designatea gross amount of purchases and a gross amount of sales that together give rise to the hedged net position. Anentity shall designate gross positions that give rise to the net position so that the entity is able to comply withthe requirements for the accounting for qualifying hedging relationships.

Application of the Hedge Effectiveness Requirements to a Hedge of a Net Position

B6.6.5When an entity determines whether the hedge effectiveness requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met when ithedges a net position, it shall consider the changes in the value of the items in the net position that have asimilar effect as the hedging instrument in conjunction with the fair value change on the hedging instrument.For example, an entity has a group of firm sale commitments in nine months’ time for FC100 and a group of firmpurchase commitments in 18 months’ time for FC120. It hedges the foreign currency risk of the net position of

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015114A

FC20 using a forward exchange contract for FC20. When determining whether the hedge effectivenessrequirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met, the entity shall consider the relationship between:

(a) the fair value change on the forward exchange contract together with the foreign currency risk relatedchanges in the value of the firm sale commitments; and

(b) the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the firm purchase commitments.

B6.6.6Similarly, if in the example in paragraph B6.6.5 the entity had a nil net position it would consider the relationshipbetween the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the firm sale commitments and the foreigncurrency risk related changes in the value of the firm purchase commitments when determining whether thehedge effectiveness requirements of paragraph 6.4.1(c) are met.

Cash Flow Hedges that Constitute a Net Position

B6.6.7When an entity hedges a group of items with offsetting risk positions (ie. a net position), the eligibility forhedge accounting depends on the type of hedge. If the hedge is a fair value hedge, then the net position maybe eligible as a hedged item. If, however, the hedge is a cash flow hedge, then the net position can only beeligible as a hedged item if it is a hedge of foreign currency risk and the designation of that net positionspecifies the reporting period in which the forecast transactions are expected to affect profit or loss and alsospecifies their nature and volume.

B6.6.8For example, an entity has a net position that consists of a bottom layer of FC100 of sales and a bottom layer ofFC150 of purchases. Both sales and purchases are denominated in the same foreign currency. In order tosufficiently specify the designation of the hedged net position, the entity specifies in the original documentationof the hedging relationship that sales can be of Product A or Product B and purchases can be of MachineryType A, Machinery Type B and Raw Material A. The entity also specifies the volumes of the transactions byeach nature. The entity documents that the bottom layer of sales (FC100) is made up of a forecast sales volumeof the first FC70 of Product A and the first FC30 of Product B. If those sales volumes are expected to affect profitor loss in different reporting periods, the entity would include that in the documentation, for example, the firstFC70 from sales of Product A that are expected to affect profit or loss in the first reporting period and the firstFC30 from sales of Product B that are expected to affect profit or loss in the second reporting period. The entityalso documents that the bottom layer of the purchases (FC150) is made up of purchases of the first FC60 ofMachinery Type A, the first FC40 of Machinery Type B and the first FC50 of Raw Material A. If those purchasevolumes are expected to affect profit or loss in different reporting periods, the entity would include in thedocumentation a disaggregation of the purchase volumes by the reporting periods in which they are expectedto affect profit or loss (similarly to how it documents the sales volumes). For example, the forecast transactionwould be specified as:

(a) the first FC60 of purchases of Machinery Type A that are expected to affect profit or loss from the thirdreporting period over the next ten reporting periods;

(b) the first FC40 of purchases of Machinery Type B that are expected to affect profit or loss from thefourth reporting period over the next 20 reporting periods; and

(c) the first FC50 of purchases of Raw Material A that are expected to be received in the third reportingperiod and sold, ie. affect profit or loss, in that and the next reporting period.

Specifying the nature of the forecast transaction volumes would include aspects such as the depreciationpattern for items of property, plant and equipment of the same kind, if the nature of those items is suchthat the depreciation pattern could vary depending on how the entity uses those items. For example, ifthe entity uses items of Machinery Type A in two different production processes that result in straight-line depreciation over ten reporting periods and the units of production method respectively, its

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015115A

documentation of the forecast purchase volume for Machinery Type A would disaggregate that volumeby which of those depreciation patterns will apply.

B6.6.9For a cash flow hedge of a net position, the amounts determined in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11 shallinclude the changes in the value of the items in the net position that have a similar effect as the hedginginstrument in conjunction with the fair value change on the hedging instrument. However, the changes in thevalue of the items in the net position that have a similar effect as the hedging instrument are recognised onlyonce the transactions that they relate to are recognised, such as when a forecast sale is recognised as revenue.For example, an entity has a group of highly probable forecast sales in nine months’ time for FC100 and a groupof highly probable forecast purchases in 18 months’ time for FC120. It hedges the foreign currency risk of thenet position of FC20 using a forward exchange contract for FC20. When determining the amounts that arerecognised in the cash flow hedge reserve in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(a)–6.5.11(b), the entity compares:

(a) the fair value change on the forward exchange contract together with the foreign currency risk relatedchanges in the value of the highly probable forecast sales; with

(b) the foreign currency risk related changes in the value of the highly probable forecast purchases.

However, the entity recognises only amounts related to the forward exchange contract until the highly probableforecast sales transactions are recognised in the financial statements, at which time the gains or losses on thoseforecast transactions are recognised (ie. the change in the value attributable to the change in the foreignexchange rate between the designation of the hedging relationship and the recognition of revenue).

B6.6.10Similarly, if in the example the entity had a nil net position it would compare the foreign currency risk relatedchanges in the value of the highly probable forecast sales with the foreign currency risk related changes in thevalue of the highly probable forecast purchases. However, those amounts are recognised only once the relatedforecast transactions are recognised in the financial statements.

Layers of Groups of Items Designated as the Hedged Item

B6.6.11For the same reasons noted in paragraph B6.3.19, designating layer components of groups of existing itemsrequires the specific identification of the nominal amount of the group of items from which the hedged layercomponent is defined.

B6.6.12A hedging relationship can include layers from several different groups of items. For example, in a hedge of a netposition of a group of assets and a group of liabilities, the hedging relationship can comprise, in combination,a layer component of the group of assets and a layer component of the group of liabilities.

Presentation of Hedging Instrument Gains or Losses

B6.6.13If items are hedged together as a group in a cash flow hedge, they might affect different line items in thestatement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. The presentation of hedging gains or losses in thatstatement depends on the group of items.

B6.6.14If the group of items does not have any offsetting risk positions (for example, a group of foreign currencyexpenses that affect different line items in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income thatare hedged for foreign currency risk) then the reclassified hedging instrument gains or losses shall be apportionedto the line items affected by the hedged items. This apportionment shall be done on a systematic and rationalbasis and shall not result in the grossing up of the net gains or losses arising from a single hedging instrument.

B6.6.15If the group of items does have offsetting risk positions (for example, a group of sales and expenses denominatedin a foreign currency hedged together for foreign currency risk) then an entity shall present the hedging gains

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015116A

or losses in a separate line item in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. Consider, forexample, a hedge of the foreign currency risk of a net position of foreign currency sales of FC100 and foreigncurrency expenses of FC80 using a forward exchange contract for FC20. The gain or loss on the forwardexchange contract that is reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to profit or loss (when the net positionaffects profit or loss) shall be presented in a separate line item from the hedged sales and expenses. Moreover,if the sales occur in an earlier period than the expenses, the sales revenue is still measured at the spot exchangerate in accordance with LKAS 21. The related hedging gain or loss is presented in a separate line item, so thatprofit or loss reflects the effect of hedging the net position, with a corresponding adjustment to the cash flowhedge reserve. When the hedged expenses affect profit or loss in a later period, the hedging gain or losspreviously recognised in the cash flow hedge reserve on the sales is reclassified to profit or loss and presentedas a separate line item from those that include the hedged expenses, which are measured at the spot exchangerate in accordance with LKAS 21.

B6.6.16For some types of fair value hedges, the objective of the hedge is not primarily to offset the fair value changeof the hedged item but instead to transform the cash flows of the hedged item. For example, an entity hedges thefair value interest rate risk of a fixed-rate debt instrument using an interest rate swap. The entity’s hedgeobjective is to transform the fixed-interest cash flows into floating interest cash flows. This objective is reflectedin the accounting for the hedging relationship by accruing the net interest accrual on the interest rate swap inprofit or loss. In the case of a hedge of a net position (for example, a net position of a fixed-rate asset and a fixed-rate liability), this net interest accrual must be presented in a separate line item in the statement of profit or lossand other comprehensive income. This is to avoid the grossing up of a single instrument’s net gains or lossesinto offsetting gross amounts and recognising them in different line items (for example, this avoids grossing upa net interest receipt on a single interest rate swap into gross interest revenue and gross interest expense).

Effective Date and Transition (Chapter 7)

Transition (Section 7.2)

Financial Assets Held for Trading

B7.2.1At the date of initial application of this Standard, an entity must determine whether the objective of the entity’sbusiness model for managing any of its financial assets meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or thecondition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a) or if a financial asset is eligible for the election in paragraph 5.7.5. For thatpurpose, an entity shall determine whether financial assets meet the definition of held for trading as if the entityhad purchased the assets at the date of initial application.

Impairment

B7.2.2On transition, an entity should seek to approximate the credit risk on initial recognition by considering allreasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort. An entity is not requiredto undertake an exhaustive search for information when determining, at the date of transition, whether therehave been significant increases in credit risk since initial recognition. If an entity is unable to make thisdetermination without undue cost or effort paragraph 7.2.20 applies.

B7.2.3In order to determine the loss allowance on financial instruments initially recognised (or loan commitments orfinancial guarantee contracts to which the entity became a party to the contract) prior to the date of initialapplication, both on transition and until the derecognition of those items an entity shall consider informationthat is relevant in determining or approximating the credit risk at initial recognition. In order to determine orapproximate the initial credit risk, an entity may consider internal and external information, including portfolioinformation, in accordance with paragraphs B5.5.1–B5.5.6.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015117A

B7.2.4An entity with little historical information may use information from internal reports and statistics (that mayhave been generated when deciding whether to launch a new product), information about similar products orpeer group experience for comparable financial instruments, if relevant.

Definitions (Appendix A)

Derivatives

BA.1Typical examples of derivatives are futures and forward, swap and option contracts. A derivative usually has anotional amount, which is an amount of currency, a number of shares, a number of units of weight or volume orother units specified in the contract. However, a derivative instrument does not require the holder or writer toinvest or receive the notional amount at the inception of the contract. Alternatively, a derivative could requirea fixed payment or payment of an amount that can change (but not proportionally with a change in theunderlying) as a result of some future event that is unrelated to a notional amount. For example, a contract mayrequire a fixed payment of Rs.1,000 if six-month LIBOR increases by 100 basis points. Such a contract is aderivative even though a notional amount is not specified.

BA.2The definition of a derivative in this Standard includes contracts that are settled gross by delivery of theunderlying item (eg a forward contract to purchase a fixed rate debt instrument). An entity may have a contractto buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchangingfinancial instruments (eg a contract to buy or sell a commodity at a fixed price at a future date). Such a contractis within the scope of this Standard unless it was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose ofdelivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.However, this Standard applies to such contracts for an entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirementsif the entity makes a designation in accordance with paragraph 2.5 (see paragraphs 2.4–2.7).

BA.3One of the defining characteristics of a derivative is that it has an initial net investment that is smaller thanwould be required for other types of contracts that would be expected to have a similar response to changes inmarket factors. An option contract meets that definition because the premium is less than the investment thatwould be required to obtain the underlying financial instrument to which the option is linked. A currency swapthat requires an initial exchange of different currencies of equal fair values meets the definition because it hasa zero initial net investment.

BA.4A regular way purchase or sale gives rise to a fixed price commitment between trade date and settlement datethat meets the definition of a derivative. However, because of the short duration of the commitment it is notrecognised as a derivative financial instrument. Instead, this Standard provides for special accounting for suchregular way contracts (see paragraphs 3.1.2 and B3.1.3–B3.1.6).

BA.5The definition of a derivative refers to non-financial variables that are not specific to a party to the contract.These include an index of earthquake losses in a particular region and an index of temperatures in a particularcity. Non-financial variables specific to a party to the contract include the occurrence or non-occurrence of afire that damages or destroys an asset of a party to the contract. A change in the fair value of a non-financialasset is specific to the owner if the fair value reflects not only changes in market prices for such assets (afinancial variable) but also the condition of the specific non-financial asset held (a non-financial variable). Forexample, if a guarantee of the residual value of a specific car exposes the guarantor to the risk of changes in thecar’s physical condition, the change in that residual value is specific to the owner of the car.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015118A

Financial Assets and Liabilities Held for Trading

BA.6Trading generally reflects active and frequent buying and selling, and financial instruments held for tradinggenerally are used with the objective of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price or dealer’smargin.

BA.7Financial liabilities held for trading include:

(a) derivative liabilities that are not accounted for as hedging instruments;

(b) obligations to deliver financial assets borrowed by a short seller (ie an entity that sells financial assetsit has borrowed and does not yet own);

(c) financial liabilities that are incurred with an intention to repurchase them in the near term (eg a quoteddebt instrument that the issuer may buy back in the near term depending on changes in its fair value);and

(d) financial liabilities that are part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managedtogether and for which there is evidence of a recent pattern of short-term profit-taking.

BA.8The fact that a liability is used to fund trading activities does not in itself make that liability one that is held fortrading.

Appendix C

Amendments to Other Standards

Except where otherwise stated, an entity shall apply the amendments in this appendix when it applies SLFRS 9 issued inDecember 2014. These amendments incorporate with additions the amendments issued in Appendix C of SLFRS 9 in 2009,2010 and 2013. The amendments in this appendix also incorporate the amendments made by Standards issued beforeSLFRS 9 (2014), even if those other Standards were not mandatorily effective at the time SLFRS 9 (2014) was issued.Notably, the amendments in this appendix incorporate the amendments made by SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts withCustomers.

SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri LankaAccounting Standards

C1Paragraph 29 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 39B, 39G and 39U are deleted and paragraphs 29A and 39Yare added:

29An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial asset as a financial asset measured atfair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19A. The entity shall disclose the fair valueof financial assets so designated at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount inthe previous financial statements.

29AAn entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial liability as a financial liability at fairvalue through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19. The entity shall disclose the fair value offinancial liabilities so designated at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount inthe previous financial statements.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015119A

39B[Deleted]

39G[Deleted]

39U[Deleted]

39YSLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 29, B1–B6, D1, D14, D15,D19 and D20, deleted paragraphs 39B, 39G and 39U and added paragraphs 29A, B8–B8G, B9, D19A–D19C,D33, E1 and E2. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

C2In Appendix B, paragraphs B1–B6 are amended to read as follows, and a heading and paragraphs B8–B8G, and aheading and paragraph B9 are added:

B1An entity shall apply the following exceptions:

(a) derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities (paragraphs B2 and B3);

(b) hedge accounting (paragraphs B4–B6);

(c) non-controlling interests (paragraph B7);

(d) classification and measurement of financial assets (paragraphs B8–B8C);

(e) impairment of financial assets (paragraphs B8D–B8G);

(f) embedded derivatives (paragraph B9); and

(g) government loans (paragraphs B10–B12).

Derecognition of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities

B2Except as permitted by paragraph B3, a first-time adopter shall apply the derecognition requirements inSLFRS 9 prospectively for transactions occurring on or after the date of transition to SLFRSs. For example,if a first-time adopter derecognised non-derivative financial assets or non-derivative financial liabilities inaccordance with its previous GAAP as a result of a transaction that occurred before the date of transitionto SLFRSs, it shall not recognise those assets and liabilities in accordance with SLFRSs (unless they qualifyfor recognition as a result of a later transaction or event).

B3Despite paragraph B2, an entity may apply the derecognition requirements in SLFRS 9 retrospectively froma date of the entity’s choosing, provided that the information needed to apply SLFRS 9 to financial assetsand financial liabilities derecognised as a result of past transactions was obtained at the time of initiallyaccounting for those transactions.

Hedge Accounting

B4As required by SLFRS 9, at the date of transition to SLFRSs an entity shall:

(a) measure all derivatives at fair value; and

(b) eliminate all deferred losses and gains arising on derivatives that were reported in accordancewith previous GAAP as if they were assets or liabilities.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015120A

B5An entity shall not reflect in its opening SLFRS statement of financial position a hedging relationship of atype that does not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SLFRS 9 (for example, many hedgingrelationships where the hedging instrument is a stand-alone written option or a net written option; orwhere the hedged item is a net position in a cash flow hedge for another risk than foreign currency risk).However, if an entity designated a net position as a hedged item in accordance with previous GAAP, it maydesignate as a hedged item in accordance with SLFRSs an individual item within that net position, or a netposition if that meets the requirements in paragraph 6.6.1 of SLFRS 9, provided that it does so no later thanthe date of transition to SLFRSs.

B6If, before the date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity had designated a transaction as a hedge but the hedgedoes not meet the conditions for hedge accounting in SLFRS 9, the entity shall apply paragraphs 6.5.6 and6.5.7 of SLFRS 9 to discontinue hedge accounting. Transactions entered into before the date of transitionto SLFRSs shall not be retrospectively designated as hedges.

Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments

B8An entity shall assess whether a financial asset meets the conditions in paragraph 4.1.2 or the conditionsin paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date oftransition to SLFRSs.

B8AIf it is impracticable to assess a modified time value of money element in accordance with paragraphsB4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transitionto SLFRSs, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset on thebasis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of transition to SLFRSs without taking intoaccount the requirements related to the modification of the time value of money element in paragraphsB4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9. (In this case, the entity shall also apply paragraph 42R of SLFRS 7 butreferences to ‘paragraph 7.2.4 of SLFRS 9’ shall be read to mean this paragraph and references to ‘initialrecognition of the financial asset’ shall be read to mean ‘at the date of transition to SLFRSs’.)

B8BIf it is impracticable to assess whether the fair value of a prepayment feature is insignificant in accordancewith paragraph B4.1.12(c) of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date oftransition to SLFRSs, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asseton the basis of the facts and circumstances that existed at the date of transition to SLFRSs without takinginto account the exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of SLFRS 9. (In this case, theentity shall also apply paragraph 42S of SLFRS 7 but references to ‘paragraph 7.2.5 of SLFRS 9’ shall beread to mean this paragraph and references to ‘initial recognition of the financial asset’ shall be read tomean ‘at the date of transition to SLFRSs’.) B8C If it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) for an entityto apply retrospectively the effective interest method in SLFRS 9, the fair value of the financial asset or thefinancial liability at the date of transition to SLFRSs shall be the new gross carrying amount of thatfinancial asset or the new amortised cost of that financial liability at the date of transition to SLFRSs.

Impairment of Financial Assets

B8DAn entity shall apply the impairment requirements in Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9 retrospectively subject toparagraphs 7.2.15 and 7.2.18–7.2.20 of that SLFRS.

B8EAt the date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity shall use reasonable and supportable information that isavailable without undue cost or effort to determine the credit risk at the date that financial instruments wereinitially recognised (or for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the date that the entitybecame a party to the irrevocable commitment in accordance with paragraph 5.5.6 of SLFRS 9) and comparethat to the credit risk at the date of transition to SLFRSs (also see paragraphs B7.2.2–B7.2.3 of SLFRS 9).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015121A

B8FWhen determining whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, anentity may apply:

(a) the requirements in paragraph 5.5.10 and B5.5.27–B5.5.29 of SLFRS 9; and

(b) the rebuttable presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of SLFRS 9 for contractual payments that are morethan 30 days past due if an entity will apply the impairment requirements by identifying significantincreases in credit risk since initial recognition for those financial instruments on the basis of pastdue information.

B8GIf, at the date of transition to SLFRSs, determining whether there has been a significant increase in creditrisk since the initial recognition of a financial instrument would require undue cost or effort, an entity shallrecognise a loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date untilthat financial instrument is derecognised (unless that financial instrument is low credit risk at a reportingdate, in which case paragraph B8E(a) applies).

Embedded Derivatives

B9A first-time adopter shall assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from the hostcontract and accounted for as a derivative on the basis of the conditions that existed at the later of the dateit first became a party to the contract and the date a reassessment is required by paragraph B4.3.11 ofSLFRS 9.

C3In Appendix D, paragraphs D1, D14, D15, D19 and D20 and a heading above D19 are amended to read as followsand paragraphs D19A–D19C and, after paragraph D32, a heading and paragraph D33 are added.

D1An entity may elect to use one or more of the following exemptions:

(a) ...

(j) designation of previously recognised financial instruments (paragraphs D19–D19C);

(k) ...

(r) joint arrangements (paragraph D31);

(s) stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine (paragraph D32); and

(t) designation of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item (paragraph D33).

An entity shall not apply these exemptions by analogy to other items.

D14When an entity prepares separate financial statements, LKAS 27 requires it to account for its investmentsin subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either:

(a) at cost; or

(b) in accordance with SLFRS 9.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015122A

D15If a first-time adopter measures such an investment at cost in accordance with LKAS 27, it shall measurethat investment at one of the following amounts in its separate opening SLFRS statement of financialposition:

(a) cost determined in accordance with LKAS 27; or

(b) deemed cost. The deemed cost of such an investment shall be its:

(i) fair value at the entity’s date of transition to SLFRSs in its separate financial statements; or

(ii) previous GAAP carrying amount at that date.

A first-time adopter may choose either (i) or (ii) above to measure its investment in each subsidiary,joint venture or associate that it elects to measure using a deemed cost.

Designation of Previously Recognised Financial Instruments

D19SLFRS 9 permits a financial liability (provided it meets certain criteria) to be designated as a financialliability at fair value through profit or loss. Despite this requirement an entity is permitted to designate, atthe date of transition to SLFRSs, any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss provided theliability meets the criteria in paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 at that date.

D19A An entity may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordancewith paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date oftransition to SLFRSs.

D19B An entity may designate an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensiveincome in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 on the basis of the facts and circumstances that existat the date of transition to SLFRSs.

D19C For a financial liability that is designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss, an entityshall determine whether the treatment in paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9 would create an accounting mismatchin profit or loss on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition to SLFRSs.

Fair Value Measurement of Financial Assets or FinancialLiabilities at Initial Recognition

D20Despite the requirements of paragraphs 7 and 9, an entity may apply the requirements in paragraphB5.1.2A(b) of SLFRS 9 prospectively to transactions entered into on or after the date of transition toSLFRSs.

Designation of Contracts to Buy or Sell a Non-financial Item

D33SLFRS 9 permits some contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item to be designated at inception asmeasured at fair value through profit or loss (see paragraph 2.5 of SLFRS 9). Despite this requirement anentity is permitted to designate, at the date of transition to SLFRSs, contracts that already exist on that dateas measured at fair value through profit or loss but only if they meet the requirements of paragraph 2.5 ofSLFRS 9 at that date and the entity designates all similar contracts.

C4In Appendix E, a heading and paragraphs E1 and E2 are added:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015123A

Exemption from the Requirement to Restate Comparative Information for SLFRS 9

E1If an entity’s first SLFRS reporting period begins before 1st January, 2019 and the entity applies thecompleted version of SLFRS 9 (issued in 2014), the comparative information in the entity’s first SLFRSfinancial statements need not comply with SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure or the completedversion of SLFRS 9 (2014), to the extent that the disclosures required by SLFRS 7 relate to items within thescope of SLFRS 9. For such entities, references to the ‘date of transition to SLFRSs’ shall mean, in the caseof SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 (2014) only, the beginning of the first SLFRS reporting period.

E2An entity that chooses to present comparative information that does not comply with SLFRS 7 and thecompleted version of SLFRS 9 (issued in 2014) in its first year of transition shall:

(a) apply the requirements of its previous GAAP in place of the requirements of SLFRS 9 to comparativeinformation about items within the scope of SLFRS 9.

(b) disclose this fact together with the basis used to prepare this information.

(c) treat any adjustment between the statement of financial position at the comparative period’s reportingdate (ie the statement of financial position that includes comparative information under previousGAAP) and the statement of financial position at the start of the first SLFRS reporting period (ie thefirst period that includes information that complies with SLFRS 7 and the completed version ofSLFRS 9 (issued in 2014)) as arising from a change in accounting policy and give the disclosuresrequired by paragraph 28(a)–(e) and (f)(i) of LKAS 8. Paragraph 28(f)(i) applies only to amountspresented in the statement of financial position at the comparative period’s reporting date.

(d) apply paragraph 17(c) of LKAS 1 to provide additional disclosures when compliance with thespecific requirements in SLFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particulartransactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance.

SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment

C5Paragraph 6 is amended to read as follows, and paragraph 63C is added.

6This SLFRS does not apply to share-based payment transactions in which the entity receives or acquiresgoods or services under a contract within the scope of paragraphs 8–10 of LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:Presentation [footnote omitted] or paragraphs 2.4–2.7 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

63CSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when itapplies SLFRS 9.

SLFRS 3 Business Combinations

C6Paragraphs 16, 42, 53, 56 and 58 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 64A, 64D and 64H are deleted andparagraph 64L is added.

16In some situations, SLFRSs provide for different accounting depending on how an entity classifies ordesignates a particular asset or liability. Examples of classifications or designations that the acquirer shallmake on the basis of the pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date include but are notlimited to:

(a) classification of particular financial assets and liabilities as measured at fair value through profit orloss or at amortised cost, or as a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensiveincome in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015124A

(b) designation of a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument in accordance with SLFRS 9; and

(c) assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be separated from a host contract inaccordance with SLFRS 9 (which is a matter of ‘classification’ as this SLFRS uses that term).

42In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure its previously held equityinterest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if any, inprofit or loss or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. In prior reporting periods, the acquirer mayhave recognised changes in the value of its equity interest in the acquiree in other comprehensiveincome. If so, the amount that was recognised in other comprehensive income shall be recognised on thesame basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equityinterest.

53Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business combination. Those costsinclude finder’s fees; advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or consulting fees;general administrative costs, including the costs of maintaining an internal acquisitions department; andcosts of registering and issuing debt and equity securities. The acquirer shall account for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services are received, withone exception. The costs to issue debt or equity securities shall be recognised in accordance with LKAS32 and SLFRS 9.

56After initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or expires, the acquirer shall measure acontingent liability recognised in a business combination at the higher of:

(a) the amount that would be recognised in accordance with LKAS 37; and

(b) the amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised inaccordance with the principles of SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9.

58Some changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that the acquirer recognises after the acquisitiondate may be the result of additional information that the acquirer obtained after that date about facts andcircumstances that existed at the acquisition date. Such changes are measurement period adjustments inaccordance with paragraphs 45–49. However, changes resulting from events after the acquisition date,such as meeting an earnings target, reaching a specified share price or reaching a milestone on a researchand development project, are not measurement period adjustments. The acquirer shall account for changesin the fair value of contingent consideration that are not measurement period adjustments as follows: –

(a) ...

(b) Other contingent consideration that:

(i) is within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date andchanges in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9.

(ii) is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date andchanges in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss.

64A[Deleted]

64D[Deleted]

64H[Deleted]

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015125A

64LSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 16, 42, 53, 56, 58 and B41 and deletedparagraphs 64A, 64D and 64H. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

C7In Appendix B, paragraph B41 is amended to read as follows:

B41The acquirer shall not recognise a separate valuation allowance as of the acquisition date for assetsacquired in a business combination that are measured at their acquisition-date fair values because theeffects of uncertainty about future cash flows are included in the fair value measure. For example, becausethis SLFRS requires the acquirer to measure acquired receivables, including loans, at their acquisition-date fair values in accounting for a business combination, the acquirer does not recognise a separatevaluation allowance for the contractual cash flows that are deemed to be uncollectible at that date or a lossallowance for expected credit losses.

SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts

C8In the Introduction paragraph IN3 is amended to read as follows:

IN3The SLFRS applies to all insurance contracts (including reinsurance contracts) that an entity issues andto reinsurance contracts that it holds, except for specified contracts covered by other SLFRSs. It does notapply to other assets and liabilities of an insurer, such as financial assets and financial liabilities within thescope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. Furthermore, it does not address accounting by policyholders.

C9Paragraphs 3, 4, 7, 8, 12, 34, 35 and 45 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 41C, 41D and 41F are deleted andparagraph 41H is added:

3This SLFRS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers, such as accounting for financialassets held by insurers and financial liabilities issued by insurers (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:Presentation, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments), except in the transitional provisions inparagraph 45.

4An entity shall not apply this SLFRS to:

(a) ...

(d) financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regardssuch contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts,in which case the issuer may elect to apply either LKAS 32, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 or this SLFRS tosuch financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but theelection for each contract is irrevocable.

(e) ...

7SLFRS 9 requires an entity to separate some embedded derivatives from their host contract, measure themat fair value and include changes in their fair value in profit or loss. SLFRS 9 applies to derivativesembedded in an insurance contract unless the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract.

8As an exception to the requirements in SLFRS 9, an insurer need not separate, and measure at fair value,a policyholder’s option to surrender an insurance contract for a fixed amount (or for an amount based ona fixed amount and an interest rate), even if the exercise price differs from the carrying amount of the hostinsurance liability. However, the requirements in SLFRS 9 do apply to a put option or cash surrenderoption embedded in an insurance contract if the surrender value varies in response to the change in afinancial variable (such as an equity or commodity price or index), or a non-financial variable that is notspecific to a party to the contract. Furthermore, those requirements also apply if the holder’s ability to

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015126A

exercise a put option or cash surrender option is triggered by a change in such a variable (for example, aput option that can be exercised if a stock market index reaches a specified level).

12To unbundle a contract, an insurer shall:

(a) apply this SLFRS to the insurance component,

(b) apply SLFRS 9 to the deposit component.

34Some insurance contracts contain a discretionary participation feature as well as a guaranteed element.The issuer of such a contract:

(a) ...

(d) shall, if the contract contains an embedded derivative within the scope of SLFRS 9, apply SLFRS 9to that embedded derivative.

(e) ...

Discretionary Participation Features in Financial Instruments

35The requirements in paragraph 34 also apply to a financial instrument that contains a discretionaryparticipation feature. In addition:

(a) if the issuer classifies the entire discretionary participation feature as a liability, it shall apply theliability adequacy test in paragraphs 15–19 to the whole contract (ie both the guaranteed elementand the discretionary participation feature). The issuer need not determine the amount that wouldresult from applying SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element.

(b) if the issuer classifies part or all of that feature as a separate component of equity, the liabilityrecognised for the whole contract shall not be less than the amount that would result from applyingSLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element. That amount shall include the intrinsic value of an option tosurrender the contract, but need not include its time value if paragraph 9 exempts that option frommeasurement at fair value. The issuer need not disclose the amount that would result from applyingSLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element, nor need it present that amount separately. Furthermore, theissuer need not determine that amount if the total liability recognised is clearly higher.

(c) ...

41C[Deleted]

41D[Deleted]

41F[Deleted]

41HSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 7, 8, 12, 34, 35, 45, Appendix A andparagraphs B18–B20 and deleted paragraphs 41C, 41D and 41F. An entity shall apply those amendmentswhen it applies SLFRS 9.

45Notwithstanding paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9, when an insurer changes its accounting policies for insuranceliabilities, it is permitted, but not required, to reclassify some or all of its financial assets so that they aremeasured at fair value through profit or loss. This reclassification is permitted if an insurer changesaccounting policies when it first applies this SLFRS and if it makes a subsequent policy change permittedby paragraph 22. The reclassification is a change in accounting policy and LKAS 8 applies.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015127A

C10In Appendix A the defined term ‘deposit component’ is amended to read as follows:

Deposit componentA contractual component that is not accounted for as a derivative under SLFRS 9 andwould be within the scope of SLFRS 9 if it were a separate instrument

C11In Appendix B, paragraphs B18–B20 are amended to read as follows:

B18The following are examples of contracts that are insurance contracts, if the transfer of insurance risk issignificant:

(a) ...

(g) credit insurance that provides for specified payments to be made to reimburse the holder for a lossit incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due under the original or modifiedterms of a debt instrument. These contracts could have various legal forms, such as that of aguarantee, some types of letter of credit, a credit derivative default contract or an insurance contract.However, although these contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract, they also meet thedefinition of a financial guarantee contract in SLFRS 9 and are within the scope of LKAS 32[footnote omitted] and SLFRS 9, not this SLFRS (see paragraph 4(d)). Nevertheless, if an issuer offinancial guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts asinsurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer mayelect to apply either LKAS 32 [footnote omitted] and SLFRS 9 or this SLFRS to such financialguarantee contracts.

(h) ...

B19The following are examples of items that are not insurance contracts:

(a) ...

(e) derivatives that expose one party to financial risk but not insurance risk, because they require thatparty to make payment based solely on changes in one or more of a specified interest rate, financialinstrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating orcredit index or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is notspecific to a party to the contract (see SLFRS 9).

(f) a credit-related guarantee (or letter of credit, credit derivative default contract or credit insurancecontract) that requires payments even if the holder has not incurred a loss on the failure of thedebtor to make payments when due (see SLFRS 9).

(g) ...

B20If the contracts described in paragraph B19 create financial assets or financial liabilities, they are withinthe scope of SLFRS 9. Among other things, this means that the parties to the contract use what issometimes called deposit accounting, which involves the following:

(a) ...

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015128A

SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale andDiscontinued Operations

C12Paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 44F and 44J are deleted and paragraph 44K is added:

5The measurement provisions of this SLFRS [footnote omitted] do not apply to the following assets, whichare covered by the SLFRSs listed, either as individual assets or as part of a disposal group:

(a) ...

(c) financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

(d) ...

44F[Deleted]

44J[Deleted]

44KSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 5 and deleted paragraphs 44F and 44J. An entityshall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures

C13In the rubric, the reference to ‘Appendices A–D’ is amended to ‘Appendices A–C’. Paragraphs 2–5, 8–11, 14, 20,28–30, 36 and 42C–42E are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 12, 12A, 16, 22–24, 37, 44E, 44F and 44H–44J,44N, 44S–44W, 44Y are deleted and several headings and paragraphs 5A, 10A, 11A, 11B, 12B–12D, 16A, 20A,21A–21D, 22A–22C, 23A–23F, 24A–24G, 35A–35N, 42I–42S, 44Z and 44ZA are added.

2The principles in this SLFRS complement the principles for recognising, measuring and presenting financialassets and financial liabilities in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and SLFRS 9 FinancialInstruments.

Scope

3This SLFRS shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments, except:

(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordancewith SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statementsor LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10,LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements ofthis SLFRS. Entities shall also apply this SLFRS to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries,associates or joint ventures unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument inLKAS 32.

(b) ...

(d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However, this SLFRS applies toderivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts if SLFRS 9 requires the entity to accountfor them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this SLFRS to financial guarantee contractsif the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply SLFRS4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 inrecognising and measuring them.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015129A

(e) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share-based payment transactions towhich SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies, except that this SLFRS applies to contractswithin the scope of SLFRS 9.

(f) ...

4This SLFRS applies to recognised and unrecognised financial instruments. Recognised financialinstruments include financial assets and financial liabilities that are within the scope of SLFRS 9.Unrecognised financial instruments include some financial instruments that, although outside the scopeof SLFRS 9, are within the scope of this SLFRS.

5This SLFRS applies to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that are within the scope of SLFRS 9.

5AThe credit risk disclosure requirements in paragraph 35A–35N apply to those rights that SLFRS 15Revenue from Contracts with Customers specifies are accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 for thepurposes of recognising impairment gains or losses. Any reference to financial assets or financialinstruments in these paragraphs shall include those rights unless otherwise specified.

8The carrying amounts of each of the following categories, as specified in SLFRS 9, shall be disclosedeither in the statement of financial position or in the notes:

(a) financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) thosedesignated as such upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1of SLFRS 9 and (ii) those mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordancewith SLFRS 9.

(b) –

(d) [deleted]

(e) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) those designated assuch upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of SLFRS 9 and(ii) those that meet the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9.

(f) financial assets measured at amortised cost.

(g) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.

(h) financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, showing separately(i) financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income inaccordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9; and (ii) investments in equity instruments designatedas such upon initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.

Financial Assets or Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss

9If the entity has designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss a financial asset (or group offinancial assets) that would otherwise be measured at fair value through other comprehensive income oramortised cost, it shall disclose:

(a) the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of the financial asset (or group offinancial assets) at the end of the reporting period.

(b) the amount by which any related credit derivatives or similar instruments mitigate that maximumexposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(b)).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015130A

(c) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial asset(or group of financial assets) that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the financial assetdetermined either:

(i) ...

(d) the amount of the change in the fair value of any related credit derivatives or similar instrumentsthat has occurred during the period and cumulatively since the financial asset was designated.

10If the entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance withparagraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is required to present the effects of changes in that liability’s credit risk inother comprehensive income (see paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9), it shall disclose:

(a) the amount of change, cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable tochanges in the credit risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 for guidanceon determining the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk).

(b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount and the amount the entity would becontractually required to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.

(c) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during the period including the reason forsuch transfers.

(d) if a liability is derecognised during the period, the amount (if any) presented in other comprehensiveincome that was realised at derecognition.

10AIf an entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss in accordance withparagraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is required to present all changes in the fair value of that liability (includingthe effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 ofSLFRS 9), it shall disclose:

(a) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the financial liabilitythat is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability (see paragraphs B5.7.13–B5.7.20 ofSLFRS 9 for guidance on determining the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk); and

(b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount and the amount the entity would becontractually required to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.

11The entity shall also disclose:

(a) a detailed description of the methods used to comply with the requirements in paragraphs 9(c),10(a) and 10A(a) and paragraph 5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9, including an explanation of why the method isappropriate.

(b) if the entity believes that the disclosure it has given, either in the statement of financial position orin the notes, to comply with the requirements in paragraph 9(c), 10(a) or 10A(a) or paragraph5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9 does not faithfully represent the change in the fair value of the financial assetor financial liability attributable to changes in its credit risk, the reasons for reaching this conclusionand the factors it believes are relevant.

(c) a detailed description of the methodology or methodologies used to determine whether presentingthe effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income would create orenlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9). If an

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015131A

entity is required to present the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in profit or loss (seeparagraph 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9), the disclosure must include a detailed description of the economicrelationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 of SLFRS 9.

Investments in Equity Instruments Designated at Fair Value through OtherComprehensive Income

11AIf an entity has designated investments in equity instruments to be measured at fair value through othercomprehensive income, as permitted by paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose:

(a) which investments in equity instruments have been designated to be measured at fair valuethrough other comprehensive income.

(b) the reasons for using this presentation alternative.

(c) the fair value of each such investment at the end of the reporting period.

(d) dividends recognised during the period, showing separately those related to investmentsderecognised during the reporting period and those related to investments held at the end of thereporting period.

(e) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity during the period including the reasonfor such transfers.

11BIf an entity derecognised investments in equity instruments measured at fair value through othercomprehensive income during the reporting period, it shall disclose:

(a) the reasons for disposing of the investments.

(b) the fair value of the investments at the date of derecognition.

(c) the cumulative gain or loss on disposal.

12–

12A[Deleted]

12BAn entity shall disclose if, in the current or previous reporting periods, it has reclassified any financialassets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9. For each such event, an entity shall disclose:

(a) the date of reclassification.

(b) a detailed explanation of the change in business model and a qualitative description of its effect onthe entity’s financial statements.

(c) the amount reclassified into and out of each category.

12CFor each reporting period following reclassification until derecognition, an entity shall disclose for assetsreclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category so that they are measured at amortisedcost or fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9:

(a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of reclassification; and

(b) the interest revenue recognised.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015132A

12DIf, since its last annual reporting date, an entity has reclassified financial assets out of the fair valuethrough other comprehensive income category so that they are measured at amortised cost or out of thefair value through profit or loss category so that they are measured at amortised cost or fair value throughother comprehensive income it shall disclose:

(a) the fair value of the financial assets at the end of the reporting period; and

(b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensiveincome during the reporting period if the financial assets had not been reclassified.

14An entity shall disclose:

(a) the carrying amount of financial assets it has pledged as collateral for liabilities or contingentliabilities, including amounts that have been reclassified in accordance with paragraph 3.2.23(a) ofSLFRS 9; and

(b) the terms and conditions relating to its pledge.

16[Deleted]

16AThe carrying amount of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income inaccordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 is not reduced by a loss allowance and an entity shall notpresent the loss allowance separately in the statement of financial position as a reduction of the carryingamount of the financial asset. However, an entity shall disclose the loss allowance in the notes to thefinancial statements.

20An entity shall disclose the following items of income, expense, gains or losses either in the statement ofcomprehensive income or in the notes:

(a) net gains or net losses on:

(i) financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, showingseparately those on financial assets or financial liabilities designated as such upon initialrecognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of SLFRS 9, and those onfinancial assets or financial liabilities that are mandatorily measured at fair value throughprofit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9 (eg financial liabilities that meet the definition ofheld for trading in SLFRS 9). For financial liabilities designated as at fair value throughprofit or loss, an entity shall show separately the amount of gain or loss recognised inother comprehensive income and the amount recognised in profit or loss.

(ii)–

(iv) [deleted]

(v) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.

(vi) financial assets measured at amortised cost.

(vii) investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensiveincome in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.

(viii) financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordancewith paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9, showing separately the amount of gain or loss recognised

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015133A

in other comprehensive income during the period and the amount reclassified uponderecognition from accumulated other comprehensive income to profit or loss for theperiod.

(b) total interest revenue and total interest expense (calculated using the effective interest method)for financial assets that are measured at amortised cost or that are measured at fair value throughother comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 (showing theseamounts separately); or financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through profit orloss.

(c) fee income and expense (other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate)arising from:

(i) financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss; and

(ii) trust and other fiduciary activities that result in the holding or investing of assets on behalfof individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans, and other institutions.

(d) [deleted]

(e) [deleted]

20AAn entity shall disclose an analysis of the gain or loss recognised in the statement of comprehensiveincome arising from the derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost, showing separatelygains and losses arising from derecognition of those financial assets. This disclosure shall include thereasons for derecognising those financial assets.

Hedge Accounting

21AAn entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 21B–24F for those risk exposures that anentity hedges and for which it elects to apply hedge accounting. Hedge accounting disclosures shallprovide information about:

(a) an entity’s risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk;

(b) how the entity’s hedging activities may affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of its future cashflows; and

(c) the effect that hedge accounting has had on the entity’s statement of financial position, statementof comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity.

21BAn entity shall present the required disclosures in a single note or separate section in its financialstatements. However, an entity need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere, providedthat the information is incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to some other statement,such as a management commentary or risk report, that is available to users of the financial statements onthe same terms as the financial statements and at the same time. Without the information incorporated bycross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.

21CWhen paragraphs 22A–24F require the entity to separate by risk category the information disclosed, theentity shall determine each risk category on the basis of the risk exposures an entity decides to hedge andfor which hedge accounting is applied. An entity shall determine risk categories consistently for all hedgeaccounting disclosures.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015134A

21DTo meet the objectives in paragraph 21A, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified below) determinehow much detail to disclose, how much emphasis to place on different aspects of the disclosurerequirements, the appropriate level of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financialstatements need additional explanations to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed. However, anentity shall use the same level of aggregation or disaggregation it uses for disclosure requirements ofrelated information in this SLFRS and SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.

The Risk Management Strategy

22[Deleted]

22AAn entity shall explain its risk management strategy for each risk category of risk exposures that it decidesto hedge and for which hedge accounting is applied. This explanation should enable users of financialstatements to evaluate (for example):

(a) how each risk arises.

(b) how the entity manages each risk; this includes whether the entity hedges an item in its entirety forall risks or hedges a risk component (or components) of an item and why.

(c) the extent of risk exposures that the entity manages.

22BTo meet the requirements in paragraph 22A, the information should include (but is not limited to) adescription of:

(a) the hedging instruments that are used (and how they are used) to hedge risk exposures;

(b) how the entity determines the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedginginstrument for the purpose of assessing hedge effectiveness; and

(c) how the entity establishes the hedge ratio and what the sources of hedge ineffectiveness are.

22CWhen an entity designates a specific risk component as a hedged item (see paragraph 6.3.7 of SLFRS 9) itshall provide, in addition to the disclosures required by paragraphs 22A and 22B, qualitative or quantitativeinformation about:

(a) how the entity determined the risk component that is designated as the hedged item (including adescription of the nature of the relationship between the risk component and the item as a whole);and

(b) how the risk component relates to the item in its entirety (for example, the designated risk componenthistorically covered on average 80 per cent of the changes in fair value of the item as a whole).

The Amount, Timing and Uncertainty of Future Cash Flows

23[Deleted]

23AUnless exempted by paragraph 23C, an entity shall disclose by risk category quantitative information toallow users of its financial statements to evaluate the terms and conditions of hedging instruments andhow they affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows of the entity.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015135A

23BTo meet the requirement in paragraph 23A, an entity shall provide a breakdown that discloses:

(a) a profile of the timing of the nominal amount of the hedging instrument; and

(b) if applicable, the average price or rate (for example strike or forward prices etc) of the hedginginstrument.

23CIn situations in which an entity frequently resets (ie discontinues and restarts) hedging relationshipsbecause both the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequently change (ie the entity uses a dynamicprocess in which both the exposure and the hedging instruments used to manage that exposure do notremain the same for long—such as in the example in paragraph B6.5.24(b) of SLFRS 9) the entity:

(a) is exempt from providing the disclosures required by paragraphs 23A and 23B.

(b) shall disclose:

(i) information about what the ultimate risk management strategy is in relation to those hedgingrelationships;

(ii) a description of how it reflects its risk management strategy by using hedge accounting anddesignating those particular hedging relationships; and

(iii) an indication of how frequently the hedging relationships are discontinued and restarted aspart of the entity’s process in relation to those hedging relationships.

23DAn entity shall disclose by risk category a description of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that areexpected to affect the hedging relationship during its term.

23EIf other sources of hedge ineffectiveness emerge in a hedging relationship, an entity shall disclose thosesources by risk category and explain the resulting hedge ineffectiveness.

23FFor cash flow hedges, an entity shall disclose a description of any forecast transaction for which hedgeaccounting had been used in the previous period, but which is no longer expected to occur.

The Effects of Hedge Accounting on Financial Position and Performance

24[Deleted]

24AAn entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to items designated as hedginginstruments separately by risk category for each type of hedge (fair value hedge, cash flow hedge orhedge of a net investment in a foreign operation):

(a) the carrying amount of the hedging instruments (financial assets separately from financial liabilities);

(b) the line item in the statement of financial position that includes the hedging instrument;

(c) the change in fair value of the hedging instrument used as the basis for recognising hedgeineffectiveness for the period; and

(d) the nominal amounts (including quantities such as tonnes or cubic metres) of the hedginginstruments.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015136A

24BAn entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to hedged items separately byrisk category for the types of hedges as follows:

(a) for fair value hedges:

(i) the carrying amount of the hedged item recognised in the statement of financial position(presenting assets separately from liabilities);

(ii) the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on the hedged item included in thecarrying amount of the hedged item recognised in the statement of financial position(presenting assets separately from liabilities);

(iii) the line item in the statement of financial position that includes the hedged item;

(iv) the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectivenessfor the period; and

(v) the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the statement of financialposition for any hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging gains and lossesin accordance with paragraph 6.5.10 of SLFRS 9.

(b) for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:

(i) the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for recognising hedge ineffectivenessfor the period (ie for cash flow hedges the change in value used to determine the recognisedhedge ineffectiveness in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(c) of SLFRS 9);

(ii) the balances in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign currency translation reserve forcontinuing hedges that are accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.11 and 6.5.13(a) ofSLFRS 9; and

(iii) the balances remaining in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign currency translationreserve from any hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer applied.

24CAn entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts separately by risk category for thetypes of hedges as follows:

(a) for fair value hedges:

(i) hedge ineffectiveness—ie the difference between the hedging gains or losses of the hedginginstrument and the hedged item—recognised in profit or loss (or other comprehensive incomefor hedges of an equity instrument for which an entity has elected to present changes in fairvalue in other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9); and

(ii) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the recognised hedgeineffectiveness.

(b) for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:

(i) hedging gains or losses of the reporting period that were recognised in other comprehensiveincome;

(ii) hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015137A

(iii) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the recognised hedgeineffectiveness;

(iv) the amount reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve or the foreign currency translationreserve into profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1) (differentiating betweenamounts for which hedge accounting had previously been used, but for which the hedgedfuture cash flows are no longer expected to occur, and amounts that have been transferredbecause the hedged item has affected profit or loss);

(v) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the reclassificationadjustment (see LKAS 1); and

(vi) for hedges of net positions, the hedging gains or losses recognised in a separate line item inthe statement of comprehensive income (see paragraph 6.6.4 of SLFRS 9).

24DWhen the volume of hedging relationships to which the exemption in paragraph 23C applies isunrepresentative of normal volumes during the period (ie the volume at the reporting date does not reflectthe volumes during the period) an entity shall disclose that fact and the reason it believes the volumes areunrepresentative.

24EAn entity shall provide a reconciliation of each component of equity and an analysis of other comprehensiveincome in accordance with LKAS 1 that, taken together:

(a) differentiates, at a minimum, between the amounts that relate to the disclosures in paragraph24C(b)(i) and (b)(iv) as well as the amounts accounted for in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(d)(i)and (d)(iii) of SLFRS 9;

(b) differentiates between the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge transactionrelated hedged items and the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge time-period related hedged items when an entity accounts for the time value of an option in accordancewith paragraph 6.5.15 of SLFRS 9; and

(c) differentiates between the amounts associated with forward elements of forward contracts and theforeign currency basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge transaction related hedgeditems, and the amounts associated with forward elements of forward contracts and the foreigncurrency basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge time-period related hedged items whenan entity accounts for those amounts in accordance with paragraph 6.5.16 of SLFRS 9.

24FAn entity shall disclose the information required in paragraph 24E separately by risk category. Thisdisaggregation by risk may be provided in the notes to the financial statements.

Option to Designate a Credit Exposure as Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss

24GIf an entity designated a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, as measured at fair value through profitor loss because it uses a credit derivative to manage the credit risk of that financial instrument it shalldisclose:

(a) for credit derivatives that have been used to manage the credit risk of financial instrumentsdesignated as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 ofSLFRS 9, a reconciliation of each of the nominal amount and the fair value at the beginning and atthe end of the period;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015138A

(b) the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss on designation of a financial instrument, or a proportionof it, as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1 of SLFRS9; and

(c) on discontinuation of measuring a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, at fair value throughprofit or loss, that financial instrument’s fair value that has become the new carrying amount inaccordance with paragraph 6.7.4(b) of SLFRS 9 and the related nominal or principal amount (exceptfor providing comparative information in accordance with LKAS 1, an entity does not need tocontinue this disclosure in subsequent periods).

28In some cases, an entity does not recognise a gain or loss on initial recognition of a financial asset orfinancial liability because the fair value is neither evidenced by a quoted price in an active market for anidentical asset or liability (ie a Level 1 input) nor based on a valuation technique that uses only data fromobservable markets (see paragraph B5.1.2A of SLFRS 9). In such cases, the entity shall disclose by classof financial asset or financial liability:

(a) its accounting policy for recognising in profit or loss the difference between the fair value at initialrecognition and the transaction price to reflect a change in factors (including time) that marketparticipants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability (see paragraph B5.1.2A(b)of SLFRS 9).

(b) the aggregate difference yet to be recognised in profit or loss at the beginning and end of theperiod and a reconciliation of changes in the balance of this difference.

(c) why the entity concluded that the transaction price was not the best evidence of fair value, includinga description of the evidence that supports the fair value.

29Disclosures of fair value are not required:

(a) ...

(b) [deleted]

(c) ...

30In the case described in paragraph 29(c), an entity shall disclose information to help users of the financialstatements make their own judgements about the extent of possible differences between the carryingamount of those contracts and their fair value, including:

(a) ...

Credit Risk

Scope and Objectives

35AAn entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 35F–35N to financial instruments towhich the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 are applied. However:

(a) for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables, paragraph 35J applies to those tradereceivables, contract assets or lease receivables on which lifetime expected credit losses arerecognised in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9, if those financial assets are modifiedwhile more than 30 days past due; and

(b) paragraph 35K(b) does not apply to lease receivables.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015139A

35BThe credit risk disclosures made in accordance with paragraphs 35F–35N shall enable users of financialstatements to understand the effect of credit risk on the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cashflows. To achieve this objective, credit risk disclosures shall provide:

(a) information about an entity’s credit risk management practices and how they relate to the recognitionand measurement of expected credit losses, including the methods, assumptions and informationused to measure expected credit losses;

(b) quantitative and qualitative information that allows users of financial statements to evaluate theamounts in the financial statements arising from expected credit losses, including changes in theamount of expected credit losses and the reasons for those changes; and

(c) information about an entity’s credit risk exposure (ie the credit risk inherent in an entity’s financialassets and commitments to extend credit) including significant credit risk concentrations.

35CAn entity need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere, provided that the informationis incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to other statements, such as a managementcommentary or risk report that is available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as thefinancial statements and at the same time. Without the information incorporated by cross-reference, thefinancial statements are incomplete.

35DTo meet the objectives in paragraph 35B, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified) consider howmuch detail to disclose, how much emphasis to place on different aspects of the disclosure requirements,the appropriate level of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financial statements needadditional explanations to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed.

35EIf the disclosures provided in accordance with paragraphs 35F–35N are insufficient to meet the objectivesin paragraph 35B, an entity shall disclose additional information that is necessary to meet those objectives.

The Credit Risk Management Practices

35FAn entity shall explain its credit risk management practices and how they relate to the recognition andmeasurement of expected credit losses. To meet this objective an entity shall disclose information thatenables users of financial statements to understand and evaluate:

(a) how an entity determined whether the credit risk of financial instruments has increased significantlysince initial recognition, including, if and how:

(i) financial instruments are considered to have low credit risk in accordance with paragraph5.5.10 of SLFRS 9, including the classes of financial instruments to which it applies; and

(ii) the presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of SLFRS 9, that there have been significant increases incredit risk since initial recognition when financial assets are more than 30 days past due, hasbeen rebutted;

(b) an entity’s definitions of default, including the reasons for selecting those definitions;

(c) how the instruments were grouped if expected credit losses were measured on a collective basis;

(d) how an entity determined that financial assets are credit-impaired financial assets;

(e) an entity’s write-off policy, including the indicators that there is no reasonable expectation ofrecovery and information about the policy for financial assets that are written-off but are stillsubject to enforcement activity; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015140A

(f) how the requirements in paragraph 5.5.12 of SLFRS 9 for the modification of contractual cash flowsof financial assets have been applied, including how an entity:

(i) determines whether the credit risk on a financial asset that has been modified while the lossallowance was measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, has improved tothe extent that the loss allowance reverts to being measured at an amount equal to 12-monthexpected credit losses in accordance with paragraph 5.5.5 of SLFRS 9; and

(ii) monitors the extent to which the loss allowance on financial assets meeting the criteria in (i) issubsequently remeasured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses in accordancewith paragraph 5.5.3 of SLFRS 9.

35GAn entity shall explain the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used to apply the requirementsin Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9. For this purpose an entity shall disclose:

(a) the basis of inputs and assumptions and the estimation techniques used to:

(i) measure the 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses;

(ii) determine whether the credit risk of financial instruments have increased significantlysince initial recognition; and

(iii) determine whether a financial asset is a credit-impaired financial asset.

(b) how forward-looking information has been incorporated into the determination of expected creditlosses, including the use of macroeconomic information; and

(c) changes in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the reporting periodand the reasons for those changes.

Quantitative and Aualitative Information about Amounts Arising from Expected Credit Losses

35HTo explain the changes in the loss allowance and the reasons for those changes, an entity shall provide,by class of financial instrument, a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance of theloss allowance, in a table, showing separately the changes during the period for:

(a) the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses;

(b) the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for:

(i) financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognitionbut that are not credit-impaired financial assets;

(ii) financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased ororiginated credit-impaired); and

(iii) trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables for which the loss allowances aremeasured in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9.

(c) financial assets that are purchased or originated credit-impaired. In addition to the reconciliation,an entity shall disclose the total amount of undiscounted expected credit losses at initial recognitionon financial assets initially recognised during the reporting period.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015141A

35ITo enable users of financial statements to understand the changes in the loss allowance disclosed inaccordance with paragraph 35H, an entity shall provide an explanation of how significant changes in thegross carrying amount of financial instruments during the period contributed to changes in the lossallowance. The information shall be provided separately for financial instruments that represent the lossallowance as listed in paragraph 35H(a)–(c) and shall include relevant qualitative and quantitativeinformation. Examples of changes in the gross carrying amount of financial instruments that contributedto the changes in the loss allowance may include:

(a) changes because of financial instruments originated or acquired during the reporting period;

(b) the modification of contractual cash flows on financial assets that do not result in a derecognitionof those financial assets in accordance with SLFRS 9;

(c) changes because of financial instruments that were derecognised (including those that were written-off) during the reporting period; and

(d) changes arising from whether the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month orlifetime expected credit losses.

35JTo enable users of financial statements to understand the nature and effect of modifications of contractualcash flows on financial assets that have not resulted in derecognition and the effect of such modificationson the measurement of expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose:

(a) the amortised cost before the modification and the net modification gain or loss recognised forfinancial assets for which the contractual cash flows have been modified during the reportingperiod while they had a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected creditlosses; and

(b) the gross carrying amount at the end of the reporting period of financial assets that have beenmodified since initial recognition at a time when the loss allowance was measured at an amountequal to lifetime expected credit losses and for which the loss allowance has changed during thereporting period to an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.

35KTo enable users of financial statements to understand the effect of collateral and other credit enhancementson the amounts arising from expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:

(a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reportingperiod without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (eg nettingagreements that do not qualify for offset in accordance with LKAS 32).

(b) a narrative description of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements, including:

(i) a description of the nature and quality of the collateral held;

(ii) an explanation of any significant changes in the quality of that collateral or creditenhancements as a result of deterioration or changes in the collateral policies of the entityduring the reporting period; and

(iii) information about financial instruments for which an entity has not recognised a lossallowance because of the collateral.

(c) quantitative information about the collateral held as security and other credit enhancements (forexample, quantification of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigatecredit risk) for financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015142A

35LAn entity shall disclose the contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written offduring the reporting period and are still subject to enforcement activity.

Credit Risk Exposure

35MTo enable users of financial statements to assess an entity’s credit risk exposure and understand itssignificant credit risk concentrations, an entity shall disclose, by credit risk rating grades, the grosscarrying amount of financial assets and the exposure to credit risk on loan commitments and financialguarantee contracts. This information shall be provided separately for financial instruments:

(a) for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses;

(b) for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses andthat are:

(i) financial instruments for which credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognitionbut that are not credit-impaired financial assets;

(ii) financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased ororiginated credit-impaired); and

(iii) trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables for which the loss allowances aremeasured in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9.

(c) that are purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets.

35NFor trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables to which an entity applies paragraph 5.5.15 ofSLFRS 9, the information provided in accordance with paragraph 35M may be based on a provision matrix(see paragraph B5.5.35 of SLFRS 9).

36For all financial instruments within the scope of this SLFRS, but to which the impairment requirements inSLFRS 9 are not applied, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:

(a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reportingperiod without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (eg nettingagreements that do not quality for offset in accordance with LKAS 32); this disclosure is notrequired for financial instruments whose carrying amount best represents the maximum exposure tocredit risk.

(b) a description of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements, and their financial effect(eg quantification of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements mitigate creditrisk) in respect of the amount that best represents the maximum exposure to credit risk (whetherdisclosed in accordance with (a) or represented by the carrying amount of a financial instrument).

(c) [deleted]

(d) ...

37[Deleted]

42CFor the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E–42H, an entity has continuinginvolvement in a transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, the entity retains any of the contractualrights or obligations inherent in the transferred financial asset or obtains any new contractual rights or

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015143A

obligations relating to the transferred financial asset. For the purposes of applying the disclosurerequirements in paragraphs 42E–42H, the following do not constitute continuing involvement:

(a) ...

(b) an arrangement whereby an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of afinancial asset but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more entitiesand the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5(a)–(c) of SLFRS 9 are met.

Transferred Financial Assets That are Not Derecognised in Their Entirety

42DAn entity may have transferred financial assets in such a way that part or all of the transferred financialassets do not qualify for derecognition. To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(a), the entity shalldisclose at each reporting date for each class of transferred financial assets that are not derecognised intheir entirety:

(a) ...

(f) when the entity continues to recognise the assets to the extent of its continuing involvement (seeparagraphs 3.2.6(c)(ii) and 3.2.16 of SLFRS 9), the total carrying amount of the original assetsbefore the transfer, the carrying amount of the assets that the entity continues to recognise, andthe carrying amount of the associated liabilities.

Transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety

42ETo meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(b), when an entity derecognises transferred financialassets in their entirety (see paragraph 3.2.6(a) and (c)(i) of SLFRS 9) but has continuing involvement inthem, the entity shall disclose, as a minimum, for each type of continuing involvement at each reportingdate:

(a) ...

Initial Application of SLFRS 9

42IIn the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, the entity shall disclose thefollowing information for each class of financial assets and financial liabilities as at the date of initialapplication:

(a) the original measurement category and carrying amount determined in accordance with LKAS 39or in accordance with a previous version of SLFRS 9 (if the entity’s chosen approach to applyingSLFRS 9 involves more than one date of initial application for different requirements);

(b) the new measurement category and carrying amount determined in accordance with SLFRS 9;

(c) the amount of any financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial positionthat were previously designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss but are no longerso designated, distinguishing between those that SLFRS 9 requires an entity to reclassify andthose that an entity elects to reclassify at the date of initial application.

In accordance with paragraph 7.2.2 of SLFRS 9, depending on the entity’s chosen approach to applyingSLFRS 9, the transition can involve more than one date of initial application. Therefore this paragraph mayresult in disclosure on more than one date of initial application. An entity shall present these quantitativedisclosures in a table unless another format is more appropriate.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015144A

42JIn the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, an entity shall disclosequalitative information to enable users to understand:

(a) how it applied the classification requirements in SLFRS 9 to those financial assets whoseclassification has changed as a result of applying SLFRS 9.

(b) the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financial assets or financial liabilities asmeasured at fair value through profit or loss at the date of initial application. In accordance withparagraph 7.2.2 of SLFRS 9, depending on the entity’s chosen approach to applying SLFRS 9, thetransition can involve more than one date of initial application. Therefore this paragraph may resultin disclosure on more than one date of initial application.

42KIn the reporting period that an entity first applies the classification and measurement requirements forfinancial assets in SLFRS 9 (ie when the entity transitions from LKAS 39 to SLFRS 9 for financial assets),it shall present the disclosures set out in paragraphs 42L–42O of this SLFRS as required by paragraph7.2.15 of SLFRS 9.

42LWhen required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the changes in the classifications of financialassets and financial liabilities as at the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, showing separately:

(a) the changes in the carrying amounts on the basis of their measurement categories in accordancewith LKAS 39 (ie not resulting from a change in measurement attribute on transition to SLFRS 9);and

(b) the changes in the carrying amounts arising from a change in measurement attribute on transitionto SLFRS 9.

The disclosures in this paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entityinitially applies the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.

42MWhen required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the following for financial assets and financialliabilities that have been reclassified so that they are measured at amortised cost and, in the case offinancial assets, that have been reclassified out of fair value through profit or loss so that they aremeasured at fair value through other comprehensive income, as a result of the transition to SLFRS 9:

(a) the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period; and

(b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other comprehensiveincome during the reporting period if the financial assets or financial liabilities had not beenreclassified.

The disclosures in this paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entityinitially applies the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.

42NWhen required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the following for financial assets and financialliabilities that have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category as a result of thetransition to SLFRS 9:

(a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of initial application; and

(b) the interest revenue or expense recognised.

If an entity treats the fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability as the new gross carryingamount at the date of initial application (see paragraph 7.2.11 of SLFRS 9), the disclosures in this

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015145A

paragraph shall be made for each reporting period until derecognition. Otherwise, the disclosures inthis paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entity initially appliesthe classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.

42OWhen an entity presents the disclosures set out in paragraphs 42K–42N, those disclosures, and thedisclosures in paragraph 25 of this SLFRS, must permit reconciliation between:

(a) the measurement categories presented in accordance with LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9; and

(b) the class of financial instrument

as at the date of initial application.

42POn the date of initial application of Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9, an entity is required to disclose information thatwould permit the reconciliation of the ending impairment allowances in accordance with LKAS 39 and theprovisions in accordance with LKAS 37 to the opening loss allowances determined in accordance withSLFRS 9. For financial assets, this disclosure shall be provided by the related financial assets’ measurementcategories in accordance with LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9, and shall show separately the effect of the changesin the measurement category on the loss allowance at that date.

42QIn the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, an entity is not required todisclose the line item amounts that would have been reported in accordance with the classification andmeasurement requirements (which includes the requirements related to amortised cost measurement offinancial assets and impairment in Sections 5.4 and 5.5 of SLFRS 9) of:

(a) SLFRS 9 for prior periods; and

(b) LKAS 39 for the current period.

42RIn accordance with paragraph 7.2.4 of SLFRS 9, if it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) at the date ofinitial application of SLFRS 9 for an entity to assess a modified time value of money element in accordancewith paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 based on the facts and circumstances that existed at theinitial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristics ofthat financial asset based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of thefinancial asset without taking into account the requirements related to the modification of the time valueof money element in paragraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9. An entity shall disclose the carrying amountat the reporting date of the financial assets whose contractual cash flow characteristics have been assessedbased on the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset withouttaking into account the requirements related to the modification of the time value of money element inparagraphs B4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 until those financial assets are derecognised.

42SIn accordance with paragraph 7.2.5 of SLFRS 9, if it is impracticable (as defined in LKAS 8) at the date ofinitial application for an entity to assess whether the fair value of a prepayment feature was insignificantin accordance with paragraphs B4.1.12(d) of SLFRS 9 based on the facts and circumstances that existed atthe initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash flow characteristicsof that financial asset based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of thefinancial asset without taking into account the exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 ofSLFRS 9. An entity shall disclose the carrying amount at the reporting date of the financial assets whosecontractual cash flow characteristics have been assessed based on the facts and circumstances thatexisted at the initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the exception forprepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of SLFRS 9 until those financial assets are derecognised.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015146A

Effective Date and Transition

44E[Deleted]

44F[Deleted] 44H–

44J[Deleted]

44N[Deleted]

44S– 44W[Deleted]

44Y[Deleted]

44ZSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2–5, 8–11, 14, 20, 28–30, 36, 42C–42E, AppendixA and paragraphs B1, B5, B9, B10, B22 and B27, deleted paragraphs 12, 12A, 16, 22–24, 37, 44E, 44F, 44H–44J, 44N, 44S–44W, 44Y, B4 and Appendix D and added paragraphs 5A, 10A, 11A, 11B, 12B–12D, 16A,20A, 21A–21D, 22A–22C, 23A–23F, 24A–24G, 35A–35N, 42I–42S, 44ZA and B8A–B8J. An entity shallapply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9. Those amendments need not be applied to comparativeinformation provided for periods before the date of initial application of SLFRS 9.

44ZAIn accordance with paragraph 7.1.2 of SLFRS 9, for annual reporting periods prior to 1st January 2018, anentity may elect to early apply only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financialliabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 andB5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 without applying the other requirements in SLFRS 9. If an entity elects to applyonly those paragraphs of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the relateddisclosures set out in paragraphs 10–11 of this SLFRS (as amended by SLFRS 9).

C14In Appendix A, the definition of ‘credit risk rating grades’ is added, the definition of ‘past due’ is deleted and thelast paragraph is amended to read as follows:

Credit risk ratingRating of credit risk based on the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument.grades

The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32, paragraph 9 of LKAS 39, Appendix A of SLFRS 9 orAppendix A of SLFRS 13 and are used in this SLFRS with the meaning specified in LKAS 32, LKAS 39, SLFRS 9 andSLFRS 13.

amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability

contract asset

credit-impaired financial assets

derecognition

derivative

dividends

effective interest method

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015147A

equity instrument

expected credit losses

fair value

financial asset

financial guarantee contract

financial instrument

financial liability

financial liability at fair value through profit or loss

forecast transaction

gross carrying amount

hedging instrument

held for trading

impairment gains or losses

loss allowance

purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets

reclassification date

regular way purchase or sale.

C15In Appendix B, paragraphs B1, B5, B9, B10, B22 and B27 are amended to read as follows, the heading aboveparagraph B4 and paragraph B4 are deleted and the heading above paragraph B8A and paragraphs B8A–B8J areadded:

B1Paragraph 6 requires an entity to group financial instruments into classes that are appropriate to thenature of the information disclosed and that take into account the characteristics of those financialinstruments. The classes described in paragraph 6 are determined by the entity and are, thus, distinct fromthe categories of financial instruments specified in SLFRS 9 (which determine how financial instrumentsare measured and where changes in fair value are recognised).

B4[Deleted]

B5Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financialstatements and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financialstatements. For financial instruments, such disclosure may include:

(a) for financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss:

(i) the nature of the financial liabilities the entity has designated as at fair value through profitor loss;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015148A

(ii) the criteria for so designating such financial liabilities on initial recognition; and

(iii) how the entity has satisfied the conditions in paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 for such designation.

(aa) for financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss:

(i) the nature of the financial assets the entity has designated as measured at fair value throughprofit or loss; and

(ii) how the entity has satisfied the criteria in paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 for such designation.

(b) [deleted]

(c) whether regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date or atsettlement date (see paragraph 3.1.2 of SLFRS 9).

(d) [deleted]

(e) ...

(f) [deleted]

(g) [deleted]

Credit Risk Management Practices (paragraphs 35F–35G)

B8AParagraph 35F(b) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity has defined default fordifferent financial instruments and the reasons for selecting those definitions. In accordance with paragraph5.5.9 of SLFRS 9, the determination of whether lifetime expected credit losses should be recognised isbased on the increase in the risk of a default occurring since initial recognition. Information about anentity’s definitions of default that will assist users of financial statements in understanding how an entityhas applied the expected credit loss requirements in SLFRS 9 may include:

(a) the qualitative and quantitative factors considered in defining default;

(b) whether different definitions have been applied to different types of financial instruments; and

(c) assumptions about the cure rate (ie the number of financial assets that return to a performingstatus) after a default occurred on the financial asset.

B8BTo assist users of financial statements in evaluating an entity’s restructuring and modification policies,paragraph 35F(f)(i) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity monitors the extent towhich the loss allowance on financial assets previously disclosed in accordance with paragraph 35F(f)(i)are subsequently measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses in accordance withparagraph 5.5.3 of SLFRS 9. Quantitative information that will assist users in understanding the subsequentincrease in credit risk of modified financial assets may include information about modified financial assetsmeeting the criteria in paragraph 35F(f)(i) for which the loss allowance has reverted to being measured atan amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses (ie a deterioration rate).

B8CParagraph 35G(a) requires the disclosure of information about the basis of inputs and assumptions andthe estimation techniques used to apply the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9. An entity’s assumptionsand inputs used to measure expected credit losses or determine the extent of increases in credit risk since

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015149A

initial recognition may include information obtained from internal historical information or rating reportsand assumptions about the expected life of financial instruments and the timing of the sale of collateral.

Changes in the Loss Allowance (paragraph 35H)

B8DIn accordance with paragraph 35H, an entity is required to explain the reasons for the changes in the lossallowance during the period. In addition to the reconciliation from the opening balance to the closingbalance of the loss allowance, it may be necessary to provide a narrative explanation of the changes. Thisnarrative explanation may include an analysis of the reasons for changes in the loss allowance during theperiod, including:

(a) the portfolio composition;

(b) the volume of financial instruments purchased or originated; and

(c) the severity of the expected credit losses

B8EFor loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the loss allowance is recognised as a provision.An entity should disclose information about the changes in the loss allowance for financial assets separatelyfrom those for loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts. However, if a financial instrumentincludes both a loan (ie financial asset) and an undrawn commitment (ie loan commitment) component andthe entity cannot separately identify the expected credit losses on the loan commitment component fromthose on the financial asset component, the expected credit losses on the loan commitment should berecognised together with the loss allowance for the financial asset. To the extent that the combinedexpected credit losses exceed the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, the expected credit lossesshould be recognised as a provision.

Collateral (paragraph 35K)

B8FParagraph 35K requires the disclosure of information that will enable users of financial statements tounderstand the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements on the amount of expected credit losses.An entity is neither required to disclose information about the fair value of collateral and other creditenhancements nor is it required to quantify the exact value of the collateral that was included in thecalculation of expected credit losses (ie the loss given default).

B8GA narrative description of collateral and its effect on amounts of expected credit losses might includeinformation about:

(a) the main types of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements (examples of the latterbeing guarantees, credit derivatives and netting agreements that do not qualify for offset inaccordance with LKAS 32);

(b) the volume of collateral held and other credit enhancements and its significance in terms of the lossallowance;

(c) the policies and processes for valuing and managing collateral and other credit enhancements;

(d) the main types of counterparties to collateral and other credit enhancements and theircreditworthiness; and

(e) information about risk concentrations within the collateral and other credit enhancements.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015150A

Credit Risk Exposure (paragraphs 35M–35N)

B8HParagraph 35M requires the disclosure of information about an entity’s credit risk exposure and significantconcentrations of credit risk at the reporting date. A concentration of credit risk exists when a number ofcounterparties are located in a geographical region or are engaged in similar activities and have similareconomic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarlyaffected by changes in economic or other conditions. An entity should provide information that enablesusers of financial statements to understand whether there are groups or portfolios of financial instrumentswith particular features that could affect a large portion of that group of financial instruments such asconcentration to particular risks. This could include, for example, loan-to-value groupings, geographical,industry or issuer-type concentrations.

B8IThe number of credit risk rating grades used to disclose the information in accordance with paragraph35M shall be consistent with the number that the entity reports to key management personnel for creditrisk management purposes. If past due information is the only borrower-specific information available andan entity uses past due information to assess whether credit risk has increased significantly since initialrecognition in accordance with paragraph 5.5.10 of SLFRS 9, an entity shall provide an analysis by pastdue status for those financial assets.

B8JWhen an entity has measured expected credit losses on a collective basis, the entity may not be able toallocate the gross carrying amount of individual financial assets or the exposure to credit risk on loancommitments and financial guarantee contracts to the credit risk rating grades for which lifetime expectedcredit losses are recognised. In that case, an entity should apply the requirement in paragraph 35M tothose financial instruments that can be directly allocated to a credit risk rating grade and disclose separatelythe gross carrying amount of financial instruments for which lifetime expected credit losses have beenmeasured on a collective basis.

B9Paragraphs 35K(a) and 36(a) require disclosure of the amount that best represents the entity’s maximumexposure to credit risk. For a financial asset, this is typically the gross carrying amount, net of:

(a)...

(b)any loss allowance recognised in accordance with SLFRS 9.

B10Activities that give rise to credit risk and the associated maximum exposure to credit risk include, but arenot limited to:

(a) granting loans to customers and placing deposits with other entities. In these cases, the maximumexposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of the related financial assets.

(b) ...

B22Interest rate risk arises on interest-bearing financial instruments recognised in the statement of financialposition (eg debt instruments acquired or issued) and on some financial instruments not recognised in thestatement of financial position (eg some loan commitments). B27 In accordance with paragraph 40(a), thesensitivity of profit or loss (that arises, for example, from instruments measured at fair value through profitor loss) is disclosed separately from the sensitivity of other comprehensive income (that arises, forexample, from investments in equity instruments whose changes in fair value are presented in othercomprehensive income).

C16Appendix D is deleted.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015151A

SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (issued in 2012)

C17[Deleted]

SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (issued in 2012)

C18Paragraphs 7.1.1 and 7.3.2 are amended to read as follows, and paragraph 7.1.1A is added:

*[Deleted]

7.1.1SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 superseded this Standard. An entity shall apply SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 forannual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018. However, for annual periods beginning before 1stJanuary 2018, an entity may elect to apply this Standard if, and only if, the entity’s date of initial applicationis before 1st February 2015. If an entity elects to apply this Standard and has not already applied SLFRS9, it must apply all of the requirements in this Standard at the same time (but see also paragraphs 7.1.1Aand 7.3.2). If an entity applies this Standard, it shall disclose that fact and at the same time apply theamendments in Appendix C.

7.1.1A Despite the requirements in paragraph 7.1.1, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018, anentity may elect to apply the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilitiesdesignated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.13 and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 without applying the other requirements in this Standard. If an entity elects to apply only thoseparagraphs, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the disclosures set out in paragraphs10–11 of SLFRS 7 (as amended by this Standard).

7.3.2[Deleted]

SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (Hedge Accounting and Amendments to SLFRS 9,SLFRS 7 and LKAS 39)

C19Paragraphs 7.1.1, 7.1.2 and 7.3.2 are amended to read as follows:

7.1.1SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 superseded this Standard. An entity shall apply SLFRS 9 as issued in 2014 forannual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2018. However, for annual periods beginning before 1stJanuary 2018, an entity may elect to apply this Standard if, and only if, the entity’s date of initial applicationis before 1st February 2015. If an entity elects to apply this Standard, it must apply all of the requirementsin this Standard at the same time (but see also paragraphs 7.1.1A and 7.2.16). If an entity applies thisStandard, it shall disclose that fact and at the same time apply the amendments in Appendix C.

7.1.2Despite the requirements in paragraph 7.1.1, for annual periods beginning before 1st January 2018, anentity may elect to apply the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilitiesdesignated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.13 and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 without applying the other requirements in this Standard. If an entity elects to apply only thoseparagraphs, it shall disclose that fact and provide on an ongoing basis the disclosures set out in paragraphs10–11 of SLFRS 7 (as amended by SLFRS 9, issued in 2012).

7.3.2This Standard supersedes SLFRS 9 issued in 2012. However, for annual periods beginning before 1stJanuary 2018, an entity may elect to apply SLFRS 9 issued in 2009 or SLFRS 9 issued in 2010 if, and onlyif, the entity’s date of initial application is before 1st February 2015.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015152A

SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement

C20Paragraph 52 is amended to read as follows:

52The exception in paragraph 48 applies only to financial assets, financial liabilities and other contractswithin the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments (or LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition andMeasurement, if SLFRS 9 has not yet been adopted). The references to financial assets and financialliabilities in paragraphs 48–51 and 53–56 should be read as applying to all contracts within the scope of,and accounted for in accordance with, SLFRS 9 (or LKAS 39, if SLFRS 9 has not yet been adopted),regardless of whether they meet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities in LKAS 32Financial Instruments: Presentation.

C21In Appendix C, paragraph C5 is added:

C5SLFRS 9, as issued in 2014, amended paragraph 52. An entity shall apply that amendment when it appliesSLFRS 9.

LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements

C22In paragraph 7, the definition of ‘other comprehensive income’ and paragraphs 68, 71, 82, 93, 95, 96, 106 and 123 areamended to read as follows, paragraphs 139E, 139G and 139M are deleted and paragraph 139O is added:

7The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

...

Other comprehensive income comprises items of income and expense (including reclassificationadjustments) that are not recognised in profit or loss as required or permitted by other SLFRSs.

The components of other comprehensive income include:

(a) ...

(d) gains and losses from investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through othercomprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;

(da) gains and losses on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income inaccordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9.

(e) the effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge and the gainsand losses on hedging instruments that hedge investments in equity instruments measured at fairvalue through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 (seeChapter 6 of SLFRS 9);

(f) for particular liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of the changein fair value that is attributable to changes in the liability’s credit risk (see paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS9);

(g) changes in the value of the time value of options when separating the intrinsic value and time valueof an option contract and designating as the hedging instrument only the changes in the intrinsicvalue (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9);

(h) changes in the value of the forward elements of forward contracts when separating the forwardelement and spot element of a forward contract and designating as the hedging instrument only the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015153A

changes in the spot element, and changes in the value of the foreign currency basis spread of afinancial instrument when excluding it from the designation of that financial instrument as thehedging instrument (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9);

...

68The operating cycle of an entity is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and theirrealisation in cash or cash equivalents. When the entity’s normal operating cycle is not clearly identifiable,it is assumed to be twelve months. Current assets include assets (such as inventories and trade receivables)that are sold, consumed or realised as part of the normal operating cycle even when they are not expectedto be realised within twelve months after the reporting period. Current assets also include assets heldprimarily for the purpose of trading (examples include some financial assets that meet the definition of heldfor trading in SLFRS 9) and the current portion of non-current financial assets.

71Other current liabilities are not settled as part of the normal operating cycle, but are due for settlementwithin twelve months after the reporting period or held primarily for the purpose of trading. Examples aresome financial liabilities that meet the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9, bank overdrafts, and thecurrent portion of non-current financial liabilities, dividends payable, income taxes and other non-tradepayables. Financial liabilities that provide financing on a long-term basis (ie are not part of the workingcapital used in the entity’s normal operating cycle) and are not due for settlement within twelve monthsafter the reporting period are non-current liabilities, subject to paragraphs 74 and 75.

82In addition to items required by other SLFRSs, the profit or loss section or the statement of profit or lossshall include line items that present the following amounts for the period:

(a) revenue, presenting separately interest revenue calculated using the effective interest method;

(aa) gains and losses arising from the derecognition of financial assets measured at amortised cost;

(b) finance costs;

(ba) impairment losses (including reversals of impairment losses or impairment gains) determinedin accordance with Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9;

(c) share of the profit or loss of associates and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method;

(ca) if a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category so that it ismeasured at fair value through profit or loss, any gain or loss arising from a difference betweenthe previous amortised cost of the financial asset and its fair value at the reclassification date (asdefined in SLFRS 9);

(cb) if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value through other comprehensive incomemeasurement category so that it is measured at fair value through profit or loss, any cumulativegain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income that is reclassified to profitor loss;

(d) ...

93Other SLFRSs specify whether and when amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive incomeare reclassified to profit or loss. Such reclassifications are referred to in this Standard as reclassificationadjustments. A reclassification adjustment is included with the related component of other comprehensiveincome in the period that the adjustment is reclassified to profit or loss. These amounts may have beenrecognised in other comprehensive income as unrealised gains in the current or previous periods. Those

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015154A

unrealised gains must be deducted from other comprehensive income in the period in which the realisedgains are reclassified to profit or loss to avoid including them in total comprehensive income twice.

95Reclassification adjustments arise, for example, on disposal of a foreign operation (see LKAS 21) andwhen some hedged forecast cash flow affect profit or loss (see paragraph 6.5.11(d) of SLFRS 9 in relationto cash flow hedges).

96Reclassification adjustments do not arise on changes in revaluation surplus recognised in accordancewith LKAS 16 or LKAS 38 or on remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognised in accordance withLKAS 19. These components are recognised in other comprehensive income and are not reclassified toprofit or loss in subsequent periods. Changes in revaluation surplus may be transferred to retainedearnings in subsequent periods as the asset is used or when it is derecognised (see LKAS 16 and LKAS38). In accordance with SLFRS 9, reclassification adjustments do not arise if a cash flow hedge or theaccounting for the time value of an option (or the forward element of a forward contract or the foreigncurrency basis spread of a financial instrument) result in amounts that are removed from the cash flowhedge reserve or a separate component of equity, respectively, and included directly in the initial cost orother carrying amount of an asset or a liability. These amounts are directly transferred to assets orliabilities.

106An entity shall present a statement of changes in equity as required by paragraph 10. The statement ofchanges in equity includes the following information:

(a) ...

(c) [deleted]

(d) for each component of equity, a reconciliation between the carrying amount at the beginning andthe end of the period, separately (as a minimum) disclosing changes resulting from:

(i) profit or loss;

(ii) other comprehensive income; and

(iii) transactions with owners in their capacity as owners, showing separately contributions byand distributions to owners and changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries that do notresult in a loss of control.

123In the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies, management makes various judgements, apartfrom those involving estimations, that can significantly affect the amounts it recognises in the financialstatements. For example, management makes judgements in determining:

(a) [deleted]

(b) when substantially all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of financial assets and leaseassets are transferred to other entities;

(c) whether, in substance, particular sales of goods are financing arrangements and therefore do notgive rise to revenue; and

(d) whether the contractual terms of a financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that aresolely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015155A

139E[Deleted]

139G[Deleted]

139M[Deleted]

139OSLFRS 9, as issued in 2014, amended paragraphs 7, 68, 71, 82, 93, 95, 96, 106 and 123 and deleted paragraphs139E, 139G and 139M. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 2 Inventories

C23Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 40A, 40B and 40D are deleted and paragraph 40F is added:

2This Standard applies to all inventories, except:

(a) [deleted]

(b) financial instruments (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and SLFRS 9Financial Instruments); and

(c) ...

40A[Deleted]

40B[Deleted]

40D[Deleted]

40FSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2 and deleted paragraphs 40A, 40B and 40D.An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in AccountingEstimates and Errors

C24Paragraph 53 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 54A, 54B and 54D are deleted and paragraph 54E is added:

53Hindsight should not be used when applying a new accounting policy to, or correcting amounts for, aprior period, either in making assumptions about what management’s intentions would have been in aprior period or estimating the amounts recognised, measured or disclosed in a prior period. For example,when an entity corrects a prior period error in calculating its liability for employees’ accumulated sick leavein accordance with LKAS 19 Employee Benefits, it disregards information about an unusually severeinfluenza season during the next period that became available after the financial statements for the priorperiod were authorised for issue. The fact that significant estimates are frequently required when amendingcomparative information presented for prior periods does not prevent reliable adjustment or correction ofthe comparative information.

54A[Deleted]

54B[Deleted]

54D[Deleted]

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015156A

54ESLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 53 and deleted paragraphs54A, 54B and 54D. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period

C25Paragraph 9 is amended to read as follows and paragraph 23B is added:

9The following are examples of adjusting events after the reporting period that require an entity to adjustthe amounts recognised in its financial statements, or to recognise items that were not previouslyrecognised:

(a) ...

(b) the receipt of information after the reporting period indicating that an asset was impaired at theend of the reporting period, or that the amount of a previously recognised impairment loss for thatasset needs to be adjusted. For example:

(i) the bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the reporting period usually confirms thatthe customer was credit-impaired at the end of the reporting period;

23BSLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 9. An entity shall applythat amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 12 Income Taxes

C26Paragraph 20 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 96, 97 and 98D are deleted and paragraph 98F is added:

20SLFRSs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be revalued (see, for example, LKAS16 Property, Plant and Equipment, LKAS 38 Intangible Assets, LKAS 40 Investment Property and SLFRS9 Financial Instruments). In some jurisdictions, the revaluation or other restatement of an asset to fairvalue affects taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax base of the asset is adjustedand no temporary difference arises. In other jurisdictions, the revaluation or restatement of an asset doesnot affect taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or restatement and, consequently, the tax base ofthe asset is not adjusted. Nevertheless, the future recovery of the carrying amount will result in a taxableflow of economic benefits to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes will differfrom the amount of those economic benefits. The difference between the carrying amount of a revaluedasset and its tax base is a temporary difference and gives rise to a deferred tax liability or asset. This is trueeven if:

(a)...

96[Deleted]

97[Deleted]

98D[Deleted]

98FSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 20 and deleted paragraphs 96, 97 and 98D. Anentity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015157A

LKAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants andDisclosure of Government Assistance

C27In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–47’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–48’. Paragraph 10A is amended to read as follows,paragraphs 44 and 47 are deleted and paragraph 48 is added:

10AThe benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest is treated as a government grant. Theloan shall be recognised and measured in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The benefit ofthe below-market rate of interest shall be measured as the difference between the initial carrying value ofthe loan determined in accordance with SLFRS 9 and the proceeds received. The benefit is accounted forin accordance with this Standard. The entity shall consider the conditions and obligations that have been,or must be, met when identifying the costs for which the benefit of the loan is intended to compensate.

44[Deleted]

47[Deleted]

48SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 10A and deleted paragraphs 44 and 47. Anentity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates

C28[Deleted]

C29Paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 27 and 52 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 60C, 60E and 60I are deleted and paragraph60J is added:

3This Standard shall be applied: [footnote omitted]

(a) in accounting for transactions and balances in foreign currencies, except for those derivativetransactions and balances that are within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;

(b) ...

4SLFRS 9 applies to many foreign currency derivatives and, accordingly, these are excluded from the scopeof this Standard. However, those foreign currency derivatives that are not within the scope of SLFRS 9(eg. some foreign currency derivatives that are embedded in other contracts) are within the scope of thisStandard. In addition, this Standard applies when an entity translates amounts relating to derivatives fromits functional currency to its presentation currency.

5This Standard does not apply to hedge accounting for foreign currency items, including the hedging of anet investment in a foreign operation. SLFRS 9 applies to hedge accounting.

27As noted in paragraphs 3(a) and 5, SLFRS 9 applies to hedge accounting for foreign currency items. Theapplication of hedge accounting requires an entity to account for some exchange differences differentlyfrom the treatment of exchange differences required by this Standard. For example, SLFRS 9 requires thatexchange differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge arerecognised initially in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015158A

52An entity shall disclose:

(a) the amount of exchange differences recognised in profit or loss except for those arising onfinancial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9;and

(b) ...

60C[Deleted]

60E[Deleted]

60I[Deleted]

60JSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 27 and 52 and deleted paragraphs 60C,60E and 60I. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 23 Borrowing Costs

C30Paragraph 6 is amended to read as follows and paragraph 29B is added:

6Borrowing costs may include:

(a) interest expense calculated using the effective interest method as described in SLFRS 9;

(b) ...

29BSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment whenit applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures

C31Paragraphs 40–42 are amended to read as follows, and paragraphs 41A–41C and 45A are added:

40After application of the equity method, including recognising the associate’s or joint venture’s losses inaccordance with paragraph 38, the entity applies paragraphs 41A–41C to determine whether there is anyobjective evidence that its net investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.

41The entity applies the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 to its other interests in the associate or jointventure that are in the scope of SLFRS 9 and that do not constitute part of the net investment.

41AThe net investment in an associate or joint venture is impaired and impairment losses are incurred if, andonly if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after theinitial recognition of the net investment (a ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact onthe estimated future cash flows from the net investment that can be reliably estimated. It may not bepossible to identify a single, discrete event that caused the impairment. Rather the combined effect ofseveral events may have caused the impairment. Losses expected as a result of future events, no matterhow likely, are not recognised. Objective evidence that the net investment is impaired includes observabledata that comes to the attention of the entity about the following loss events:

(a) significant financial difficulty of the associate or joint venture;

(b) a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments by the associate or jointventure;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015159A

(c) the entity, for economic or legal reasons relating to its associate’s or joint venture’s financialdifficulty, granting to the associate or joint venture a concession that the entity would nototherwise consider;

(d) it becoming probable that the associate or joint venture will enter bankruptcy or other financialreorganisation; or

(e) the disappearance of an active market for the net investment because of financial difficulties ofthe associate or joint venture.

41BThe disappearance of an active market because the associate’s or joint venture’s equity or financialinstruments are no longer publicly traded is not evidence of impairment. A downgrade of an associate’s orjoint venture’s credit rating or a decline in the fair value of the associate or joint venture, is not of itself,evidence of impairment, although it may be evidence of impairment when considered with other availableinformation.

41CIn addition to the types of events in paragraph 41A, objective evidence of impairment for the net investmentin the equity instruments of the associate or joint venture includes information about significant changeswith an adverse effect that have taken place in the technological, market, economic or legal environmentin which the associate or joint venture operates, and indicates that the cost of the investment in the equityinstrument may not be recovered. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an investment inan equity instrument below its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.

42Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the net investment in an associate or a jointventure is not separately recognised, it is not tested for impairment separately by applying the requirementsfor impairment testing goodwill in LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets. Instead, the entire carrying amount ofthe investment is tested for impairment in accordance with LKAS 36 as a single asset, by comparing itsrecoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amountwhenever application of paragraphs 41A–41C indicates that the net investment may be impaired. Animpairment loss recognised in those circumstances is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, thatforms part of the carrying amount of the net investment in the associate or joint venture. Accordingly, anyreversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with LKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverableamount of the net investment subsequently increases. In determining the value in use of the net investment,an entity estimates:

(a) its share of the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by theassociate or joint venture, including the cash flows from the operations of the associate or jointventure and the proceeds from the ultimate disposal of the investment; or

(b) the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from dividends to be receivedfrom the investment and from its ultimate disposal.

Using appropriate assumptions, both methods give the same result.

45ASLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 40–42 and added paragraphs 41A–41C. Anentity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation

C32[Deleted]

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015160A

C33Paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 12, 23, 31, 42 and 96C are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 97F, 97H and 97P are deletedand paragraph 97R is added:

3The principles in this Standard complement the principles for recognising and measuring financial assetsand financial liabilities in SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, and for disclosing information about them inSLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.

Scope

4This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:

(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordancewith SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements orLKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10,LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements ofthis Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to all derivatives linked to interests insubsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.

(b) ...

(d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However, this Standard appliesto derivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts if SLFRS 9 requires the entity to accountfor them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this Standard to financial guarantee contractsif the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply SLFRS4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 inrecognising and measuring them.

(e) financial instruments that are within the scope of SLFRS 4 because they contain a discretionaryparticipation feature. The issuer of these instruments is exempt from applying to these featuresparagraphs 15–32 and AG25–AG35 of this Standard regarding the distinction between financialliabilities and equity instruments. However, these instruments are subject to all other requirementsof this Standard. Furthermore, this Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded in theseinstruments (see SLFRS 9).

(f) ...

8This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled netin cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contractswere financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be heldfor the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expectedpurchase, sale or usage requirements. However, this Standard shall be applied to those contracts that anentity designates as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 2.5 ofSLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

12The following terms are defined in Appendix A of SLFRS 9 or paragraph 9 of LKAS 39 FinancialInstruments: Recognition and Measurement and are used in this Standard with the meaning specified inLKAS 39 and SLFRS 9.

amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability

derecognition

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015161A

derivative

effective interest method

financial guarantee contract

financial liability at fair value through profit or loss

firm commitment

forecast transaction

hedge effectiveness

hedged item

hedging instrument

held for trading

regular way purchase or sale

transaction costs.

23With the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D,a contract that contains an obligation for an entity to purchase its own equity instruments for cash oranother financial asset gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the redemption amount (forexample, for the present value of the forward repurchase price, option exercise price or other redemptionamount). This is the case even if the contract itself is an equity instrument. One example is an entity’sobligation under a forward contract to purchase its own equity instruments for cash. The financial liabilityis recognised initially at the present value of the redemption amount, and is reclassified from equity.Subsequently, the financial liability is measured in accordance with SLFRS 9. If the contract expireswithout delivery, the carrying amount of the financial liability is reclassified to equity. An entity’s contractualobligation to purchase its own equity instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value ofthe redemption amount even if the obligation to purchase is conditional on the counterparty exercising aright to redeem (eg a written put option that gives the counterparty the right to sell an entity’s own equityinstruments to the entity for a fixed price).

31SLFRS 9 deals with the measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. Equity instruments areinstruments that evidence a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.Therefore, when the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equityand liability components, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from thefair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for the liability component. Thevalue of any derivative features (such as a call option) embedded in the compound financial instrumentother than the equity component (such as an equity conversion option) is included in the liability component.The sum of the carrying amounts assigned to the liability and equity components on initial recognition isalways equal to the fair value that would be ascribed to the instrument as a whole. No gain or loss arisesfrom initially recognising the components of the instrument separately.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015162A

42A financial asset and a financial liability shall be offset and the net amount presented in the statement offinancial position when, and only when, an entity:

(a)...(b)

In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity shallnot offset the transferred asset and the associated liability (see SLFRS 9, paragraph 3.2.22).

96CThe classification of instruments under this exception shall be restricted to the accounting for such aninstrument under LKAS 1, LKAS 32, LKAS 39, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9. The instrument shall not beconsidered an equity instrument under other guidance, for example SLFRS 2.

97F[Deleted]

97H[Deleted]

97P[Deleted]

97RSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 8, 12, 23, 31, 42, 96C, AG2 and AG30 anddeleted paragraphs 97F, 97H and 97P. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

C34In the Appendix, paragraphs AG2 and AG30 are amended to read as follows:

AG2The Standard does not deal with the recognition or measurement of financial instruments. Requirementsabout the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are set out in SLFRS 9.

AG30Paragraph 28 applies only to issuers of non-derivative compound financial instruments. Paragraph 28does not deal with compound financial instruments from the perspective of holders. SLFRS 9 deals withthe classification and measurement of financial assets that are compound financial instruments from theholder’s perspective.

LKAS 33 Earnings per Share

C35Paragraph 34 is amended to read as follows and paragraph 74E is added:

34After the potential ordinary shares are converted into ordinary shares, the items identified in paragraph33(a)–(c) no longer arise. Instead, the new ordinary shares are entitled to participate in profit or lossattributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity. Therefore, profit or loss attributable to ordinaryequity holders of the parent entity calculated in accordance with paragraph 12 is adjusted for the itemsidentified in paragraph 33(a)–(c) and any related taxes. The expenses associated with potential ordinaryshares include transaction costs and discounts accounted for in accordance with the effective interestmethod (see SLFRS 9).

74ESLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 34. An entity shall applythat amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets

C36Paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 140F, 140G and 140K are deleted and paragraph140M is added:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015163A

2This Standard shall be applied in accounting for the impairment of all assets, other than:

(a) ...

(e) financial assets that are within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments;

(f) ...

4This Standard applies to financial assets classified as:

(a) subsidiaries, as defined in SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements;

(b) associates, as defined in LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; and

(c) joint ventures, as defined in SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.

For impairment of other financial assets, refer to SLFRS 9.

5This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of SLFRS 9, investment propertymeasured at fair value within the scope of LKAS 40, or biological assets related to agricultural activitymeasured at fair value less costs to sell within the scope of LKAS 41. However, this Standard applies toassets that are carried at revalued amount (ie fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequentaccumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses) in accordance with otherSLFRSs, such as the revaluation model in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and LKAS 38 IntangibleAssets. The only difference between an asset’s fair value and its fair value less costs of disposal is thedirect incremental costs attributable to the disposal of the asset.

(a) …

140F[Deleted]

140G[Deleted]

140K[Deleted]

140MSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 and deleted paragraphs 140F, 140Gand 140K. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets

C37In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–99’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–101’. Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows,paragraphs 97 and 98 are deleted and paragraph 101 is added:

2This Standard does not apply to financial instruments (including guarantees) that are within the scope ofSLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

97[Deleted]

98[Deleted]

101SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 2 and deleted paragraphs 97 and 98. An entityshall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015164A

LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement

C38[Deleted]

C39The heading above paragraph 1 and paragraph 1 are deleted.

C40Paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows and paragraphs 4–7 are deleted:

2This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all financial instruments within the scope of SLFRS 9Financial Instruments if, and to the extent that:

(a) SLFRS 9 permits the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard to be applied; and

(b) the financial instrument is part of a hedging relationship that qualifies for hedge accounting inaccordance with this Standard.

4–7[Deleted]

C41Paragraphs 8 and 9 are amended to read as follows:

8The terms defined in SLFRS 13, SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 are used in this Standard with the meaningsspecified in Appendix A of SLFRS 13, Appendix A of SLFRS 9 and paragraph 11 of LKAS 32. SLFRS 13,SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 define the following terms:

amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability

derecognition

derivative

effective interest method

effective interest rate

equity instrument

fair value

financial asset

financial instrument

financial liability

and provide guidance on applying those definitions.

In paragraph 9, the ‘Definition of a derivative’, ‘Definitions of four categories of financial instruments’,‘Definition of a financial guarantee contract’ and ‘Definitions relating to recognition and measurement’ aredeleted.

C42Headings and paragraphs 10–70 and paragraph 79 are deleted.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015165A

C43Paragraphs 71, 88–90 and 96 are amended to read as follows:

71If an entity applies SLFRS 9 and has not chosen as its accounting policy to continue to apply the hedgeaccounting requirements of this Standard (see paragraph 7.2.19 of SLFRS 9), it shall apply the hedgeaccounting requirements in Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9. However, for a fair value hedge of the interest rateexposure of a portion of a portfolio of financial assets or financial liabilities, an entity may, in accordancewith paragraph 6.1.3 of SLFRS 9, apply the hedge accounting requirements in this Standard instead ofthose in SLFRS 9. In that case the entity must also apply the specific requirements for fair value hedgeaccounting for a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk (see paragraphs 81A, 89A and AG114–AG132).

88A hedging relationship qualifies for hedge accounting under paragraphs 89–102 if, and only if, all of thefollowing conditions are met.

(a) ...

(d) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, ie the fair value or cash flows of thehedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrumentcan be reliably measured.

(e)...

Fair Value Hedges

89If a fair value hedge meets the conditions in paragraph 88 during the period, it shall be accounted for asfollows:

(a) ...

(b) the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk shall adjust the carryingamount of the hedged item and be recognised in profit or loss. This applies if the hedged item isotherwise measured at cost. Recognition of the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk inprofit or loss applies if the hedged item is a financial asset measured at fair value through othercomprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9.

90If only particular risks attributable to a hedged item are hedged, recognised changes in the fair value of thehedged item unrelated to the hedged risk are recognised as set out in paragraph 5.7.1 of SLFRS 9.

96More specifically, a cash flow hedge is accounted for as follows:

(a) ...

(c) if an entity’s documented risk management strategy for a particular hedging relationship excludesfrom the assessment of hedge effectiveness a specific component of the gain or loss or related cashflows on the hedging instrument (see paragraphs 74, 75 and 88(a)), that excluded component ofgain or loss is recognised in accordance with paragraph 5.7.1 of SLFRS 9.

C44Paragraphs 103C, 103D, 103F, 103K, 104 and 108C are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 103B, 103H–103J,103L–103P, 103S, 105–107A and 108E–108F are deleted and paragraph 103U is added:

103B[Deleted]

103CLKAS 1 amended the terminology used throughout SLFRSs. In addition it amended paragraphs 95(a), 97,98, 100, 102, 108 and AG99B. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015166A

after 1st January 2009. If an entity applies LKAS 1 for an earlier period, the amendments shall be appliedfor that earlier period.

103D[Deleted]

103F[Deleted]

103H– 103J[Deleted]

103K[Deleted]

103L– 103P[Deleted]

103S[Deleted]

103USLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2, 8, 9, 71, 88–90, 96, AG95, AG114, AG118 andthe headings above AG133 and deleted paragraphs 1, 4–7, 10–70, 103B, 103D, 103F, 103H–103J, 103L–103P, 103S, 105–107A, 108E–108F, AG1–AG93 and AG96. An entity shall apply those amendments when itapplies SLFRS 9.

104This Standard shall be applied retrospectively except as specified in paragraph 108. The opening balanceof retained earnings for the earliest prior period presented and all other comparative amounts shall beadjusted as if this Standard had always been in use unless restating the information would be impracticable.If restatement is impracticable, the entity shall disclose that fact and indicate the extent to which theinformation was restated.

105–107A[Deleted]

108CParagraphs 73 and AG8 were amended by Improvements to SLFRSs, issued in May 2008. Paragraph 80 wasamended by Improvements to SLFRSs, issued in April 2009. An entity shall apply those amendments forannual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2009. Earlier application of all the amendments is permitted.If an entity applies the amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

108E– 108F[Deleted]

C45In Appendix A, headings and paragraphs AG1–AG93 and paragraph AG96 are deleted.

C46In Appendix A, paragraphs AG95, AG114 and AG118 are amended to read as follows and the first footnote toparagraph AG118(b) is deleted:

AG95A financial asset measured at amortised cost may be designated as a hedging instrument in a hedge offoreign currency risk.

AG114 For a fair value hedge of interest rate risk associated with a portfolio of financial assets or financialliabilities, an entity would meet the requirements of this Standard if it complies with the procedures set outin (a)–(i) and paragraphs AG115–AG132 below.

(a) As part of its risk management process the entity identifies a portfolio of items whose interest raterisk it wishes to hedge. The portfolio may comprise only assets, only liabilities or both assets and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015167A

liabilities. The entity may identify two or more portfolios, in which case it applies the guidancebelow to each portfolio separately.

(b) ...

AG118 As an example of the designation set out in paragraph AG114(c), if in a particular repricing time period anentity estimates that it has fixed rate assets of Rs.100 and fixed rate liabilities of Rs.80 and decides to hedgeall of the net position of Rs.20, it designates as the hedged item assets in the amount of Rs.20 (a portionof the assets). The designation is expressed as an ‘amount of a currency’ (eg an amount of dollars, euro,pounds or rand) rather than as individual assets. It follows that all of the assets (or liabilities) from whichthe hedged amount is drawn—ie all of the Rs.100 of assets in the above example—must be:

(a) ...

(b) items that could have qualified for fair value hedge accounting if they had been designated ashedged individually. In particular, because SLFRS 9 specifies that the fair value of a financialliability with a demand feature (such as demand deposits and some types of time deposits) is notless than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could berequired to be paid, such an item cannot qualify for fair value hedge accounting for any timeperiod beyond the shortest period in which the holder can demand payment. In the above example,the hedged position is an amount of assets. Hence, such liabilities are not a part of the designatedhedged item, but are used by the entity to determine the amount of the asset that is designated asbeing hedged. If the position the entity wished to hedge was an amount of liabilities, the amountrepresenting the designated hedged item must be drawn from fixed rate liabilities other thanliabilities that the entity can be required to repay in an earlier time period, and the percentagemeasure used for assessing hedge effectiveness in accordance with paragraph AG126(b) wouldbe calculated as a percentage of these other liabilities. For example, assume that an entity estimatesthat in a particular repricing time period it has fixed rate liabilities of Rs.100, comprising Rs.40 ofdemand deposits and Rs.60 of liabilities with no demand feature, and Rs.70 of fixed rate assets. Ifthe entity decides to hedge all of the net position of Rs.30, it designates as the hedged itemliabilities of Rs.30 or 50 per cent of the liabilities with no demand feature.

C47In Appendix A, the heading above paragraph AG133 is amended to read as follows:

Transition (paragraphs 103–108C)

IFRIC 2 Members’ Shares in Co-operative Entities and Similar Instruments

C48In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–18’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–19’. Below the heading ‘References’, the reference toLKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added. Paragraphs 15 and 18 are deletedand paragraph 19 is added:

15[Deleted]

18[Deleted]

19SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs A8 and A10 and deleted paragraphs 15 and 18.An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

C49In the Appendix, paragraphs A8 and A10 are amended to read as follows:

A8Members’ shares in excess of the prohibition against redemption are financial liabilities. The co-operativeentity measures this financial liability at fair value at initial recognition. Because these shares are redeemable

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015168A

on demand, the co-operative entity measures the fair value of such financial liabilities in accordance withparagraph 47 of SLFRS 13: ‘The fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature (eg a demanddeposit) is not less than the amount payable on demand …’. Accordingly, the co-operative entity classifiesas financial liabilities the maximum amount payable on demand under the redemption provisions.

A10Following the change in its governing charter the co-operative entity can now be required to redeem amaximum of 25 per cent of its outstanding shares or a maximum of 50,000 shares at Rs.20 each. Accordingly,on 1st January 20X3 the co-operative entity classifies as financial liabilities an amount of Rs.1,000,000being the maximum amount payable on demand under the redemption provisions, as determined inaccordance with paragraph 47 of SLFRS 13. It therefore transfers on 1st January 20X3 from equity tofinancial liabilities an amount of Rs.200,000, leaving Rs.2,000,000 classified as equity. In this example theentity does not recognise a gain or loss on the transfer.

IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restoration andEnvironmental Rehabilitation Funds

C50Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 FinancialInstruments is added. Paragraph 5 is amended to read as follows, paragraphs 14A and 14C are deleted andparagraph 14D is added:

5A residual interest in a fund that extends beyond a right to reimbursement, such as a contractual right todistributions once all the decommissioning has been completed or on winding up the fund, may be anequity instrument within the scope of SLFRS 9 and is not within the scope of this Interpretation.

14A[Deleted]

14C[Deleted]

14DSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 5 and deleted paragraphs 14A and 14C. Anentity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment

C51In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–13’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–14’. Below the heading ‘References’, the reference toLKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added. Paragraphs 1, 2, 7 and 8 areamended to read as follows, paragraphs 5, 6, 11–13 are deleted, and paragraph 14 is added:

1An entity is required to assess goodwill for impairment at the end of each reporting period, and, if required,to recognise an impairment loss at that date in accordance with LKAS 36. However, at the end of asubsequent reporting period, conditions may have so changed that the impairment loss would have beenreduced or avoided had the impairment assessment been made only at that date. This Interpretationprovides guidance on whether such impairment losses should ever be reversed.

2The Interpretation addresses the interaction between the requirements of LKAS 34 and the recognition ofimpairment losses on goodwill in LKAS 36, and the effect of that interaction on subsequent interim andannual financial statements.

5[Deleted]

6[Deleted]

7The Interpretation addresses the following issue:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015169A

Should an entity reverse impairment losses recognised in an interim period on goodwill if a loss would nothave been recognised, or a smaller loss would have been recognised, had an impairment assessment beenmade only at the end of a subsequent reporting period?

Consensus

8An entity shall not reverse an impairment loss recognised in a previous interim period in respect ofgoodwill.

11–13 [Deleted]

14SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 1, 2, 7 and 8 and deleted paragraphs 5, 6, 11–13. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements

C52Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 FinancialInstruments is added. Paragraphs 23–25 are amended to read as follows, paragraphs 28A–28C are deleted andparagraph 28E is added:

23LKAS 32 and SLFRSs 7 and 9 apply to the financial asset recognised under paragraphs 16 and 18.

24The amount due from or at the direction of the grantor is accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 asmeasured at:

(a) amortised cost;

(b) fair value through other comprehensive income; or

(c) fair value through profit or loss.

25If the amount due from the grantor is measured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensiveincome, SLFRS 9 requires interest calculated using the effective interest method to be recognised in profitor loss.

28A–

28C[Deleted]

28ESLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 23–25 and deleted paragraphs 28A–28C. Anentity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation

C53A reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added under the heading ‘References’.

C54Paragraphs 3, 5–7, 14 and 16 are amended to read as follows, paragraph 18A is deleted and paragraph 18B is added:

3SLFRS 9 requires the designation of an eligible hedged item and eligible hedging instruments in a hedgeaccounting relationship. If there is a designated hedging relationship, in the case of a net investmenthedge, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge of the netinvestment is recognised in other comprehensive income and is included with the foreign exchangedifferences arising on translation of the results and financial position of the foreign operation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015170A

5SLFRS 9 allows an entity to designate either a derivative or a non-derivative financial instrument (or acombination of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments) as hedging instruments for foreigncurrency risk. This Interpretation provides guidance on where, within a group, hedging instruments thatare hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation can be held to qualify for hedge accounting.

6LKAS 21 and SLFRS 9 require cumulative amounts recognised in other comprehensive income relating toboth the foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the results and financial position of theforeign operation and the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effectivehedge of the net investment to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustmentwhen the parent disposes of the foreign operation. This Interpretation provides guidance on how anentity should determine the amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss for both the hedginginstrument and the hedged item.

7This Interpretation applies to an entity that hedges the foreign currency risk arising from its net investmentsin foreign operations and wishes to qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with SLFRS 9. Forconvenience this Interpretation refers to such an entity as a parent entity and to the financial statementsin which the net assets of foreign operations are included as consolidated financial statements. Allreferences to a parent entity apply equally to an entity that has a net investment in a foreign operation thatis a joint venture, an associate or a branch.

14A derivative or a non-derivative instrument (or a combination of derivative and non-derivative instruments)may be designated as a hedging instrument in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. Thehedging instrument(s) may be held by any entity or entities within the group, as long as the designation,documentation and effectiveness requirements of SLFRS 9 paragraph 6.4.1 that relate to a net investmenthedge are satisfied. In particular, the hedging strategy of the group should be clearly documented becauseof the possibility of different designations at different levels of the group.

16When a foreign operation that was hedged is disposed of, the amount reclassified to profit or loss as areclassification adjustment from the foreign currency translation reserve in the consolidated financialstatements of the parent in respect of the hedging instrument is the amount that SLFRS 9 paragraph 6.5.14requires to be identified. That amount is the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument that wasdetermined to be an effective hedge.

18A[Deleted]

18BSLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 5–7, 14, 16, AG1 and AG8 and deletedparagraph 18A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

C55In the Appendix, paragraphs AG1 and AG8 are amended to read as follows:

AG1This appendix illustrates the application of the Interpretation using the corporate structure illustratedbelow. In all cases the hedging relationships described would be tested for effectiveness in accordancewith SLFRS 9, although this testing is not discussed in this appendix. Parent, being the ultimate parententity, presents its consolidated financial statements in its functional currency of euro (EUR). Each of thesubsidiaries is wholly owned. Parent’s £500 million net investment in Subsidiary B (functional currencypounds sterling (GBP)) includes the £159 million equivalent of Subsidiary B’s US$300 million net investmentin Subsidiary C (functional currency US dollars (USD)). In other words, Subsidiary B’s net assets otherthan its investment in Subsidiary C are £341 million.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015171A

AG8When Subsidiary C is disposed of, the amounts reclassified to profit or loss in Parent’s consolidatedfinancial statements from its foreign currency translation reserve (FCTR) are:

(a) in respect of the US$300 million external borrowing of Subsidiary A, the amount that SLFRS 9requires to be identified, ie the total change in value in respect of foreign exchange risk that wasrecognised in other comprehensive income as the effective portion of the hedge; and

(b) ...

IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments

C56In the rubric ‘paragraphs 1–16’ is amended to ‘paragraphs 1–17’. Below the heading ‘References’, the reference toLKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments is added. Paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10 areamended to read as follows, paragraphs 14 and 16 are deleted and paragraph 17 is added:

4This Interpretation addresses the following issues:

(a) Are an entity’s equity instruments issued to extinguish all or part of a financial liability ‘considerationpaid’ in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3 of SLFRS 9?

(b) ...

Consensus

5The issue of an entity’s equity instruments to a creditor to extinguish all or part of a financial liability isconsideration paid in accordance with paragraph 3.3.3 of SLFRS 9. An entity shall remove a financialliability (or part of a financial liability) from its statement of financial position when, and only when, it isextinguished in accordance with paragraph 3.3.1 of SLFRS 9.

7If the fair value of the equity instruments issued cannot be reliably measured then the equity instrumentsshall be measured to reflect the fair value of the financial liability extinguished. In measuring the fair valueof a financial liability extinguished that includes a demand feature (eg a demand deposit), paragraph 47 ofSLFRS 13 is not applied.

9The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability (or part of a financial liability)extinguished, and the consideration paid, shall be recognised in profit or loss, in accordance with paragraph3.3.3 of SLFRS 9. The equity instruments issued shall be recognised initially and measured at the date thefinancial liability (or part of that liability) is extinguished.

10When only part of the financial liability is extinguished, consideration shall be allocated in accordancewith paragraph 8. The consideration allocated to the remaining liability shall form part of the assessmentof whether the terms of that remaining liability have been substantially modified. If the remaining liabilityhas been substantially modified, the entity shall account for the modification as the extinguishment of theoriginal liability and the recognition of a new liability as required by paragraph 3.3.2 of SLFRS 9.

14[Deleted]

16[Deleted]

17SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 9 and 10 and deleted paragraphs 14 and16. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015172A

SIC Interpretation 27 Evaluating the Substance ofTransactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease

C57Below the heading ‘References’, the reference to LKAS 39 is deleted and a reference to SLFRS 9 FinancialInstruments is added. Paragraph 7 and the section below ‘Effective date’ is amended to read as follows:

7Other obligations of an arrangement, including any guarantees provided and obligations incurred uponearly termination, shall be accounted for under LKAS 37, SLFRS 4 or SLFRS 9, depending on the terms.

Effective Date

This Interpretation becomes effective on 01st January 2012. Changes in accounting policies shall be accounted forin accordance with LKAS 8.

SLFRS 9 amended paragraph 7. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.

02–77

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.