==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.12.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THEDEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Financial (Amendment) Statute of the Southern Provincial Council No. 01 of 2018

I, Gusthingnawadu Shan Wijayalal de Silva, Chief Minister and the Minister in Charge of Finance, Southern Province dohereby notify that the Financial (Amendment) Statute of the Southern Province No. 01 of 2018, published herewith shall beenacted from the date 29.11.2018 on which the Hon. Governor’s approval was granted thereof accordingly.

GUSTHINGNAWADU SHAN WIJAYALAL DE SILVA,Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning ,Law and Order, Engineering Services, Health andIndigenous Medicine, Local Government and Transportand Tourism of the Southern Provincial Council.

At the Chief Secretary’s Office, Galle,Dated 5th of December, 2018.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG4334 – 10 (12/2018)

wxl 2101$20 – 2018 foieïn¾ ui 12 jeks nodod – 2018'12'12No. 2101/20 – WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 2018

2AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.12.2018

Financial (Amendment) Statute of the Southern Province No. 01 of 2018

Statute to Revise Financial Statute, Southern Provincial Council No. 07 of 1990

Be it enacted by the Provincial Council - Southern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic ofSri Lanka:

1. This statute shall be cited as the Southern Provincial Financial (Amendment) StatuteNo. 01 of 2018 of the Southern Provincial Council.

2. Section 104(a) of the Financial Statute No. 07 of 1990 amended by the Financial (Amendment) Statuteof No. 02 of 1992 (hereinafter referred as the Fundamental Statute) shall be repealed hereby and thefollowing section shall be substituted instead.

(1) An account that shall be hereinafter referred to as “Account” in this Section and cited as“Provincial Incentive Fund Account” shall be established.

(2) The aim of establishing the Account shall be as follows:

(a) Granting Incentive Allowances to officers attached to the Department of Provincial Revenuefor assuring the administrative procedures being carried out in respect of the Statuteswhich are being administered by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.

(b) Providing required financial aids to the welfare activities for the good will of the officersattached to the Department of Provincial Revenue.

(3) The administration and conduct over this Account shall be executed by a committee consists of07 members as follows:

(a) Chief Secretary, Southern Province(b) Secretary to the Governor, Southern Province(c) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance), Southern Province(d) District Secretary, Galle(e) Provincial Commissioner of Revenue and Two Deputy Commissioners who are underProvincial Revenue Service by virtue of the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue for thesaid activity,

(4) When the decisions are being taken in respect of the activities pertinent to the Account andadministration, such decisions shall become enforceable by the approval of the committeeconsisting of 5 members.

(5)(a) The Account shall be maintained as a current account in a State Bank of Sri Lanka in favourof the Chief Secretary, Southern Province.

(b) A report over the income and expenditure shall be prepared by the Commissioner before31st of March in the consecutive financial year and shall be submitted to the Chief Secretaryat the end of each calendar year.

(6) This Account shall be established after crediting an amount of One Lakh Rupees as an initialdeposit.

(7) An amount of finance which is comply to the percentages depicted in the Revenue Headsdescribed in below mentioned 7(a) and 7(b) shall be semiannually credited to this Account fromthe revenue being credited to Provincial Council under the current statutes administered by theProvincial Commissioner of Revenue.

Short Title.

AmendingSection 104(a)of the SouthernProvincial FinancialStatute No. 07of 1990

Establishmentof ProvincialIncentive Account.

Aim.

Administrationof the Account.

Method ofearning financeto the Account.

104(a)

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'12'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.12.20183A

(a) Where a tax or charge determined by the provisions of a statute which is operated by theProvincial Commissioner of Revenue is in default and when the said tax or charge collectedas a revenue and,

Not producing reports prescribed to be presented by a statute executed by the ProvincialCommissioner of Revenue; and an assessment made by an assessor on the basis ofconfirming the fact that false statements have been made with regard to a turnover valuementioned in a report, a value depicted in an instrument when they are checked in accordancewith the provisions of the statute and,

Where the revenue has collected upon a statement issued under the Section 62 of FinanceStatute No. 07 of 1990 on the payment that is to be paid for an instrument,

(a) An Twelve point five percent (12.5%) from the revenue collected thus, and

(b) Five percent (5%) from the revenue collected through fines imposed under anystatute executed by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.

Shall be credited to the Fund.

(c) The documents in respect of the revenue earned for the Provincial Council Fundunder the above 7(a) and 7(b) should be maintained by the Provincial RevenueCommissioner .

(8) The approval shall be given for making payments over the below mentioned facts by thecommittee appointed for administrating the Account.

(a) Incentive Allowances and the Incentive Allowances in arreas incur as a result of a salaryrevision are granted semiannually to the Public officers attached to the Department ofProvincial Revenue for achieving the objectives of establishing this fund,

(b) Amount of money requires for the welfare of the officers.

(9) Having been recovering the expenditure mentioned in the aforesaid sub section (8) in relevanceto the each and every year, the remaining amount of money after retaining Rs. 10 Lakhs in theAccount shall be credited to the Provincial Council Fund at the end of the year.

(10) Withdrawal of money from the Account by the cheques or bank drafts shall be executed by twoofficers specifically authorized by the Chief Secretary.

(11) The Final Accounts Reports prepared for each calendar year shall maintain subject to theauditing under Auditor-General in compliance with the provisions of Section 102 of SouthernProvincial Financial Statute No. 07 of 1990.

(12)(a) The Minister shall have the power to formulate procedural rules from time to time forsetting up the: procedures relevant for the execution of the Account, specimens and thefacts incidential thereto upon the recommendations of the Commissioner.

(b) Procedural rules formulated under the aforesaid (a) shall be published in the Gazette bythe Minister.

3. In the event of any inconsistency between in Sinhala and Tamil texts, the text in Sinhala shall becontinued in to force.

12 – 761

Payments madeby the Account.

General Facts.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.