==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2109$32 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'02'08

No. 2109/32 - FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 08, 2019

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4384 — 10 (02/2019)

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

PROVINCIAL COUNCIL NOTIFICATIONS

SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Irrigation Precept of the Southern Provincial Council

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Trade of the Southern Provincial Council do hereby notifythat the draft of the Irrigation Precept No. ...... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council published hereunder will bepresented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its publication in this gazette. Anyperson who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions of the said precept, shallforward the same to me within the said period.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKAMinister Southern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture, AgrarianDevelopment, Irrigation, Water Supply and Drainage, Food Supplyand Distribution, Trade and Cooperative Development.

..

23rd Day of January 2019,Office of the Minister of Trade,Galle.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

2 A

Southern Province Irrigation Precept, No. ........ of 2019

A Precept to make provisions to devise ways and means to plan, implement, activate, supervise, monitorand maintain all irrigation activity, except Southern province's inter provincial Irrigation schemes and interprovincial lands and irrigation schemes, in order to establish a Southern Provincial irrigation DevelopmentFund to facilitate such activities and to provide for all related activities in pursuance of article 19 of list 1 inattachment 9 of the 13th amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

This Precept will replace the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1948 amended by the Irrigation amendment Actno. 1 of 1951, Irrigation Amendment Act No .48 of 1968, Irrigation Amendment Act No. 37 of 1973, Irrigationamendment Act No. 23 of 1983 Irrigation amendment Act No. 34 of 1990 and Irrigation Amendment Act No.13 of 1994.

Southern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka will enact as under.

1. This Precept will be known as the Southern Provincial Irrigation Precept No. ........... of 2019.

2. This Precept will be effective from the date it is sanctioned by the Governor of the Southern Province

1st Chapter

3.In order to implement the provisions of this Precept, the Southern Provincial Irrigation Department(hereinafter known as the 'Department) will be established.

(1) Accordingly, for the purpose of exercising the authority this Precept would bestow upon the

Department, a Director shall be appointed in the title of Southern Provincial Irrigation Directorand that director shall be the head of the Department.

(2) To achieve the wider objectives of the department and to expedite the work flow and facilitate

the management, the department will be comprised with an Additional Provincial Director, ChiefIrrigation Engineer, 3 District Irrigation Engineers, 3 Irrigation Engineers and a supporting staff.

(3) Provisions of article 32 of the Provincial Council Act, amended by Provincial Council (amend

ment) Act. No. 28 of 1990 shall be relevant in appointing the Provincial Irrigation Director,Additional Provincial Irrigation Director.

4.The Provincial Irrigation Director should be subject to the general administration and directives of

the Secretary in charge of irrigation.

2nd Chapter

5.The Director shall have the following powers

(1) To plan and implement the existing irrigation schemes within the province more productively.

(2) To plan and implement the new irrigation schemes within the province more productively.

(3) To obtain the corporation of the farmer community towards the rehabilitation, maintenance and

conservation of irrigation systems.

(4) To bring before the law those persons that cause damages to irrigation systems and irrigation

reserves. To make necessary charges and complaints.

Powers of theDirector

Prologue

Concise Name

Effective date

Establishing theDepartment

Appointing aHead of theDepartment

Composition ofthe Department

under thedirective of theSecretary

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

(5) To map out and declare the irrigation reserves

(6) To prevent and minimize the environmental eventualities that cause dilapidation and deterioration

of the irrigation schemes and to develop environmentally protective schemes.

(7) To take necessary steps to construct and maintain responsive devices to minimize

destructions caused by floods.

(8) To take required step to effect responsive constructions and maintenance to prevent sea water

from flowing in through paddy lands

(9) To appoint officers to supervise Irrigation network Development Committees.

(10) To enter in to a particular property as required with prior intimation for an inquiry or

investigation, in pursuance of the objectives and duties connected to the Precept.

6.The Director shall delegate powers vested in his office to the Additional Director of irrigation and

to the Chief Irrigation Engineer in writing.

7.The scope of work and the objectivity of the Director shall be listed as follows.

(1) The Southern Provincial Director of Irrigation shall identify, document, map out and declare, at

Grama Niladhari level, all types of irrigation systems that fall within the subject itinerary of thedepartment.

However, if the irrigation systems so declared in the notice warrants change or new inductions,such changes or inductions should be declared by the Director in concurrence with theMinister.

(2) The Director should devise the Annual, Short-term and Long-term plans for new constructions,

rehabilitations, development and conservation of the provincial irrigation schemes.

(3) Should submit the plans prepared to the Provincial Planning committee or the Chief Secretary and

obtain approval for the plans before those are executed.

(4) Should establish, maintain and register a committee called the Irrigation Development and

Conservation committee at field level for the Provincial Irrigation project.

(5) Should establish, maintain & register, Irrigation Network Development and Conservation

committees forthe whole irrigation networks in a way that it represents Irrigation Developmentand Conservation committees.

3rd Chapter

8.The Director of the Southern Province Irrigation Department should establish an IrrigationConservation & Development committee at field level' for every irrigation Development project.

(1) To be appointed as a member of an Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee, a

person should possess the following qualifications

(a)He/She should be a person whose main livelihood is agriculture

(b)He/She should be a person of not less than 18 years of age

Delegation of theDirector's powers

The Director'sobjectives andthe scope ofwork

Establishingcommitees at the'field-level'membership,Quoram,Constitution andthe workobjectives

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

4 A

(c)Should be either a permanent resident or a person engaged in agriculture for a periodof two years or more in the area under the purview of the Irrigation Conservation &Development committee in which you aspire to be member.

(2)To be appointed as an Associated member of a Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee, a person should possess the following Qualifications;

(a)Even though not a person whose main livelihood is agriculture he/she should be, aresident,owner or a person in possession of an agricultural land in the area under theperview of the committee in which you aspire to be member.

(b)Should be a person engaged in the dealership/marketing of goods related to agricultureor agricultural produce.

(3)With approval of the Southern Provincial Agriculture Director and in concurrence with the

membership of the subject committee, the Agricultural Instructor of the area could be appointedas the consultant of the relevant Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee.

(4)A committee so appointed should have l/3rd of its membership in attendance to make a quoram ata committee meeting.

(5)Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should function under a constitutionapproved by the Director.

9. The duties of an irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should be as follows.

(1) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should bring to the notice of the

department all maintenance activities associated with Water cascades. Tanks, Anicuts, Brooksand Water Bubbles, within the area of its purview and execute those under the supervision of thedepartment

(2) Ensure that all irrigation management activities of the area are done properly and in time

(3) Ensure that the corporations necessary for efficient management of Water supplied by irrigation

works and used in agricultural activities are obtained through the relevant institutions.

(4) To render necessary assistance and encouragement to the agricultural organizations to grow

paddy or alternative crops in the paddy and agricultural lands as suitable

(5) To render necessary assistance and prompting to the agricultural associations to perform the

customs and traditions associated with paddy and other cultivations.

(6) To initiate activity to conserve the soil by safeguarding it from disease and pesticides

10(1) With the consent of the majority in the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee a

person should be appointed as the Field level Agent" ( Yaya Neyojitha) and that agent could beeither a member or an office bearer of the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee.

(2) The Field level representative appointed could continue to hold Office for three years unless the

appointment is canceled.

11. The office of the field level representative appointed as per article 10 above may fall vacant in the

following situations.

Appointment ofa "Field levelAgent" and theperiod of Office

Duties of anirrigationConservation &DevelopmentCommittiee

Qualifications ofan Associatedmember

Resignation &Removal of the'Field level Agent'

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

(1) The death of the field level representative

(2) A letter of resignation sent to the Director to which the Director has responded stating that the

resignation has been accepted.

(3) Removal by the Director on revelations of inefficiency and Irregularities as a result of an investigation

sanctioned by the Director.

(4)By a proposal carried with a 2/3rd majority of the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee.

12(1) An appeal, connected to removals effected under clause (2) and (3) of article 11 could be made in

writing to the Secretary by the person subjected to the removal within 30 days of such removal,and the ruling issued by the secretary on such an appeal should be final.

(2) . Accordingly, when appeal is made as per clause (1) of this article, the Irrigation Conservation &

Development Committee should refrain from appointing an alternative representative until a rul-ing is given by the Secretary or until 30 days lapse from the date of removal.

13. The duties of a Field level representative should be as follows:

(1)To protect the irrigation works in the area within his/her purview and to extend cooperation tothe department to bring before law those causing damages to the irrigation works, to takenecessary steps to conserve water issued by irrigation tanks and other irrigation systems and toassist and direct in the conduct of agricultural activity in keeping with planned Agri- Timetables.

(2)To take necessary action at any required moment in keeping with the paddy lands register of thearea within his/her purview, maintained by the Agrarian Development Department.

(3)To hand over the facility to use water and the main irrigation bund and the main water subdivision according the entitled share based on, sowing extent and due share of eachlandowner or custodian listed as per the Paddy Field register of the Agrarian DevelopmentDepartment and to enter in to a written agreement with the parties concerned on the processrequired to effect such handing over.

(4)To mark the boundaries with the assistance of the Director on a suitable system based on thepartitions made for each landowner or custodian by the Field level Agent (Yaya niyojitha).

(5)To ensure that the irrigation section marked for each party is devoid of shrubs and weeds andthat the channel bunds washed away are rehabilitated with the help of soil brought, either fromthe reservation area or from outside and that those are maintain properly & suitably.

14(1). If any activity is being carried out in breach of the agreement reached as per clause (3) of article13., the Field level Agent should report such situations to the Director.

(2).In the event of a reporting to the Director as stated in clause (1) above, the Director or an officerduly empowered by the Director, may issue a 7-day notice to the party that is in violation. If theparty in violation still continues to refrain from rehabilitating and maintaining his/her share ofthe channel portion, the director may report the matter to a Magistrate in a Magistrate court thathas jurisdiction over the area, and the Magistrate may summon the concerned party on suchreporting and issue a suitable ruling to ensure that the principal maintenance work is accom-plished.

Duties of thefield level Agent

The Directorreportingviolations to aMagistrate

Appeals againstremoval

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

6 A

4th Chapter

15.An Irrigation Network Development Committee comprising of representatives of Irrigation Conservation& Development committees and based on the physical location of the irrigation projects should beestablished covering an irrigation network.

16 (1) From among the Field Level Agents who represent Irrigation Conservation & Development

committees, three representatives should be appointed as the President, Secretary and theTreasurer by the members.

(2) The members of every Irrigation Network Development Committee should appoint a suitable execu-

tive committee comprising of a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer being permanent officebearers and other members not exceeding Four.

(3) In the event of an office of the committee falling vacant, until a suitable 'Field Level Agent "YAYA

NIYOJITHAYA" is elected by a vote of members, the Director should appoint a suitable memberrepresenting the committee to carry out the duties of that office.

(4) In a situation where some opposition has arisen with regard to the activities of the office of a

particular officer of the Irrigation Network Development Committee, the members of the committeemay forward a proposal with the consent of 2/3rd of the members to remove that officer from officeto the Director. The Director should take suitable action in such a situation.

17. The duties of the Irrigation Network Development Committee should be as follows.

(1) To work towards the conservation of its own irrigation network,

(2) To present proposals and ideas at rehabilitation and development activities to give priority to

irrigations works of the network.

(3) To protect all irrigation reserves and catchment areas located within the network.

(4) To assist in the protection of all irrigation systems and water works areas within the network.

(5) As per the provincial Irrigation department's approved network Plan, to assist the officers of the

department to protect the reserves and the characteristic manifestations that should be presentwithin the network

18. The Director should register every Irrigation Network Development Committee.

19 (1) Every Irrigation Network Development Committee should maintain an account in its name, in a

commercial bank recognized by the Government.

(2) The account maintained by the committee should be audited by a person empowered by the

Director and a report of that audit meant for every financial year should be forwarded to theDirector by the President of the committee before the 31st March of the year following thefinancial year.

20.No person should release irrigation water under an irrigation project towards a commercial purposewhich is not agricultural.

However, if the Director grants permission for water to be released for a commercial enterprisewhich is not agricultural, the fees chargeable for such release of water should be in keeping with thedirectives issued under this precept.

Duties of theirrigationNetworkDevelopmentCommittee.

Use of irrigatedwater for apurpose orherthan agriculture.

Establishing anIrrigationnetworkDevelopmentCommittee.

Composition ofthe irrigationNetworkDevelopmentCommittee.

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

5th Chapter

21.To facilitate the activities aimed at achieving the objectives of this Precept, a fund titled theProvincial Irrigation Development Fund would be established herewith.

22.(1).The Fund established under article 21 above should be a corporation by its name havingperpetual succession and a common seal with the capacity to sue and be sued underits name.

(2)Provincial Irrigation Development Fund (hereinafter known as the Fund) should beconstituted with an administrative board comprising the following members appointedby virtue of the office they hold.

(a) The Secretary to the subject Minister of the Southern Provincial Council

(b)Deputy Chief Secretary (Planning & Operation) of the Sothern Province

(c)Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Sothern Province

(d)Director of Irrigation-Southern Province

(e)Director of Agriculture- Southern Province

(3) The Secretary to the Ministry shall be the Chairman of the Fund

(4) The Secretary of the Fund shall the Chief Irrigation Engineer of the Southern Province.

(5) The Accounts of the Fund should be prepared by the Chief Accountant of the department

subject to the administration of the Secretary to the Fund

23.The objectives of the Fund should be as follows.

(1)To accomplish the maintenance, operations, development and rehabilitation activities ofthe irrigation projects in the area in a more efficient manner.

(2)To conduct research and development activity connected to the field of Irrigation.

(3)To control the disasters caused by floods and sea water more effectively

(4)To provide facilities for the conservation of irrigation reserves

(5)To improve the human resources of the Irrigation Conservation & Developmentcommittees and the Irrigation Network Development committees.

24.The scope and authority of the Fund should include the following.

(1)To hold, dispose, purchase, lease or sell property

(2)To enter into agreements with outside parties on whatever activity that contributetowards furtherance of the Fund's objectives.

(3)To identify, sanction and implement the projects that are within the objectives of theFund, whatever their form and content may be, and to procure the required resourcesand consultancy at implementation.

The objectivesof the Fund

Scope andAuthority of theFund

Institution of theProvincialirrigationDevelopmentFund

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

8 A

(4)To procure and obtain all physical resources and services that are required in theimplementation of activities designed in furtherance of the objectives of the Fund.

(5)To prescribe the human effort required in various activities conducted in furtherance ofthe objectives of the Fund and to meet such expenditure.

(6)To initiate activity that falls in line with the precept and to meet all expenditure inconnection with such activity or on item that needs to be discharged in the interest ofthe fund and the precept.

25.The receipts to the Fund would be from following sources.

(1)Fees charged for supplying irrigated water to commercial purposesother than agriculture

(2)Monies sanctioned by the Government from time to time as aid.

(3)Monies sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council for activities of the fund

(4)Monies received as donations from individuals, institutions or organizations for thedevelopment of irrigation facilities in the area.

(5)Monies levied as service fees by the committees.

(6)Monies collected through exhibitions, lotteries and such customary avenues.

26.Expenditure met by the Fund would as follows.

(1)Any item of expense connected to an activity that is in furtherance of the objectives ofthis Precept.

(2)Expenses incurred in the discharge of obligations under the agreements entered in to inthe name of the Fund and expenses connected to the purchase of goods and obtainingof services in the name of the Fund.

(3)Expenses connected to payment for human endeavors and other payments in connectionwith services supplied for the Fund.

(4)Expenses incurred in the discharge of whatever responsibilities connected to the Fund.

27.All Current and other accounts in favour of the Fund should be maintained at a bank approved bythe government

.28.The financial year for the transactions of the Fund should be a calendar year from 1st Jan. to 31st

December and the Secretary to the Funds should prepare accounts of the Fund for every financialyear and submit same before 31st March of the following year to the Chief Secretary.

29.The auditing of the accounts of the Fund should be in keeping with the provisions of the constitutionof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Expenses ofFund

Receipts to theFund

Maintaining theFund accounts &their Auditing

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

(1)The Annual report prepared by the Secretary to the Fund on administration and maintenance ofaccounts of the Fund for every calendar year should be submitted to the Administrative Board ofthe Fund before the 31st May of the year following, and the report approved by the Board shouldbe submitted to the Minister before the 30th June of that year. 2

(2)The Administrative report on the Fund presented to the Minister, accompanied by, a copy of theAudited Accounts of the year and a copy of the Auditor General's report on the accounts,should be presented to the Southern Provincial Council with the approval of the Board of Ministersof the Southern Provincial Council.

6th Chapter

30. It is an offense to commit the following acts under this precept

(1) (a) To obstruct the activities conducted under the precept.

(b) To disturb the activities conducted under the precept

(c) To place the activities of the Precept in confinement without due approval.

(d) To cause the activities of the precept to be disturbed or confined.

(e) To permit the waste of water collected either intentionally of with malice.

(f) To cut down trees

(g) To construct unauthorized constructions.

(h) To carry out unauthorized cultivations.

(2) To remove or cause to remove, without due permission, sand or mineral sands, from, a tank, a

stream in the catchment area, an irrigation works, a waterway, a tank access, a dam, a conservation,a bund, a river bank or an irrigation reserve.

(3) To allow or cause to allow any waste matter to be released to, an irrigation works, a stream, a

waterway or a paddy land or to wash machines or vehicles in such a way to make that happen.

(4) To construct a tank, to dig a waterway or to construct a structure without the written permission of

the Director.

(5) To release animals or livestock to roam free causing damages to an irrigation system, stream,

waterway or to an irrigation reserve

(6) To carry out agricultural activity in the reservation areas of the tank without due permission in

writing from the Director.

(7) To grow paddy, other irrigable crops or to multi-crop without permission, against the agreement

on the crops reached at the cultivation term meeting held.

(8) To conduct the affairs of one's activity in a way that does unduly impinge on the rights of

others by such activity.

Offences.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

10A

31.A person pronounced guilty of any of the above offenses, except on clause (2) of article 30 above,by a Magistrate Court, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than Rs. 10,000 notexceeding Rs. 50,000/ or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not exceeding 12 months,or a penalty instituted in a combination of both.

32.A person pronounced guilty of an offense under clause (2) of article 30 above, by a MagistrateCourt, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than Rs. 50,000 and not exceedingRs. 100,000/ or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not exceeding 12 months or apenalty instituted in a combination of both.

33.The Minister should enact directives on account of all instances where the precept states, 'that theMinister is required to do so' and also on account of all matters where it is required to do so in theattainment of the objectives of the precept.

34.All officers of the department should be considered as Public servants in terms of the definitiongiven in the penal code.

35.In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of thisPrecept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.

36.Unless an alternative definition is required, the following terms used in this precept should mean asbelow.

(1)'Provincial Council' should mean the Southern Provincial Council

(2)'Minister' should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Irrigation in the SouthernProvincial Council

(3)'Secretary' should mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Irrigation in the SouthernProvince

(4)'Provincial Irrigation Department' or the 'department' should mean the Southern Provincialdepartment in charge of irrigation.

(5)'Additional Provincial Director' should mean the Deputy Head of the Southern ProvincialDepartment of Irrigation.

(6)'Paddy Lands' as per the definition given in this Precept, should mean Lands that are being used,or lands that have the potential to be used, for cultivation of paddy and this may include landsthat have been dispossessed under the Private Lands and Land Development Ordinance,Government Land Ordinance or under any other such Act.

(7)'Field' should mean any part of the cultivable land that has been sanctioned by the Southernprovincial department of Irrigation either by naming or by use of the same.

(8)'Custodian' should mean the owner, or the leasehold owner, of the land or any other personengaged in the cultivation of the land for agricultural purpose such as the 'Angda' cultivator andalso include those who use or are in custody of lands dispossessed under the Land DevelopmentOrdinance or any such other ordinances.

(9)'Irrigation Tank' should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising of, reservations, streams,canals and paddy fields legitimately included in the Agricultural Land owner's register.

Definitions

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.02.2019

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

(10) 'Cascade or Irrigation network' should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising of, irrigated

creations, catchment areas collecting water, reservations, streams, canals and paddy fields, thatrevolves around a stream of water that spawns from a specific sloping area flowing downstreamin one direction, overflowing due to rain and flowing down, collected finally before It reaches ariver or a main river by an irrigation construction that enables the control and management of suchwater.

(11) 'Service fees' should mean a sum of money levied by the Irrigation Development committee on the

basis of units of water being a contribution made to a Fund enacted as per the rules and regulationsby the Minister in charge of the subject, in keeping with this Precept, to carry out rehabilitationand maintenance work of the networks of minor irrigations, small tanks, streams bunds etc. fortheir providence when the monies due for such activity from the Government or from the ProvincialCouncil is either not received or is delayed.

(12) 'A Share' should mean an irrigation share entitlement of the water way or a main channel calculated

in proportion to the ratio of farmers and the area of paddy lands listed in the paddy land register,in a minor irrigation scheme or a plot of paddy lands that have obtained irrigated water

(13) Irrigation reserve is a part of the irrigation network. It is an area of land determined as required by

the Director, either in connection with any activity of providence of a Canal, Waterway, Tank,Agri-road or any other such related item or an area required to accommodate additional water in aflood situation or an area required for the purpose of parking and accommodating the machineryused by the workers and for the use of workers.

02 - 866