==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2118$42 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2019'04'09

No. 2118/42 -TUESDAY, APRIL 09, 2019

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4475 — 10 (04/2019)

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS NOTIFICATIONS

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

STATUTE OF CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES PENSION SCHEME BEARING No. 02 OF 2019 UNDER

THE SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

I,Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Province WaterSupplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Co-operative Development of Southern ProvinceProvincial Council hereby inform to the General Public that the status of Co-operative Employees Pension Scheme No. 02 of2019 which had already been approved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by theApproval made dated 26.03.2019 by the Southern Province Provincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian, Development, Irrigation, Water Supplying and Drainage,

Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Co-operative Development of

Southern Province Provincial Council

Dated 01st April 2019,4th Floor, Dakshinapaya, Labuduwa, Galle,At the Minister's Office, Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

2 A

STATUE OF CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES PENSION SCHEME BEARING No. 02 OF 2019

UNDER THE SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

A Precept to make provision to institute a Pension scheme for the Southern Province Co-operativeemployees and to provide for a mechanism for the Co-operative Development Commissioner and theRegistrar to operate that scheme within the Southern Province, and to provide for matters related tosame.

The Southern Province Provincial Council herewith enact

1.This Precept, known as the Precept for Southern Province Co-operative Employee's Pension

Scheme No. 02 of 2018 shall be effective from the date it is sanctioned by the Governor of theSouthern Province.

Section 1

Establishing the Co-operative Employee’s Pension Scheme

2.(i)A pension scheme called the Co-operative Employee’s Pension Scheme is to be institutedin accordance with the provisions of this Precept.

(ii)This Pension Scheme should be a legitimate corporation with perpetual succession and acommon seal and also that by virtue of its co-operate character could sue and be sued and isin a position to reason out in Courts and be a legitimate corporation with powers to accomplishall that is necessary under this Precept.

3. (i)To administer the Pension scheme, the person holding the post of Southern ProvinceCo-operative Development Commissioner at the current time should be the Director of thePension Scheme.

(ii)The Director of the Scheme is responsible for supervision, control and administration of theactivities of the scheme.

(iii) In order to offer counsel and recommendations to the Director on all matters of control and

administration, an Advisory executive committee as mentioned below, comprising of sevenpersons should be present. Of these persons the Minister should appoint members as perclauses (f) and (g ) under article 3(iV) and the Co-operative Development Commissionershould appoint members as per clause(e) of the article.

(iv) As members of the Advisory Committee,

(a)Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Co-operative.

(b)Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Southern Province

(c)Commissioner General of Labour or an Executive Officer of the departmentnominated by him.

(d)Secretary to the Corporative Employees Commission of the Southern ProvincialCouncil

Instituting theCrop.Employee'sPension Scheme.

Director's role.

AppointingDirector.

AdvisoryExecutiveCommittee.

Composition ofthe AdvisoryCommittee.

Concise nameand the dateeffective.

A Corporationwith legalCharacter.

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

Staff of theScheme

(e)A Director or a General Manager representing Co-operative Rural Banking Societiesof Hambantota, Galle and Matara districts in the Southern Province.

(f)Chairman of a co-operative society in the Southern Province with service experiencenot less than five years and who has not been found guilty of an offense at alegitimate inquiry.

(g)An employee of a co-operative society in the Southern Province with serviceexperience not less than twenty years, currently in service or retired and who hasnot been found guilty of an offense at a legitimate inquiry.

(v) As may be decided by the Advisory Committee, the staff required to run the Pension

scheme could be deployed from the officers engaged in the service of the Southern ProvincialCouncil.

4 (i)(a)The period of office of the Advisory committee members describedin clauses(a), (b), (d), (e) of article 3(1V) of the Precept should be limited

to the period they hold such office.

(b)The period of office of the Advisory committee member described inclauses(c) of article 3(1V) of the Precept, when the committee member is theCommissioner General of Labour himself/herself, should be limited to theperiod of holding such office. If an executive officer of the department isbeing nominated by the Commissioner General of Labour as the member ofthe committee, that officer’s period of office shall be three years unlessdeath or resignation creates a vacancy. However, if the Commissioner Generalof Labour appoints an alternative officer, by that act the office of the firstofficer will cease to exist.

(c)The period of office of the Advisory committee members described in clauses(f) & (g) of article 3(1V) of the Precept should be limited to period of threeyears unless death or their resignation addressed to the Minister cease theiroffice.

(ii)If the Advisory committee members described in clauses (f) & (g) of article 3(iv) of the Preceptvacates his/her office as above, a replacement should be made as per clause 3(iii) and thatreplacing officer will function for the balance period of the officer he/she replaced.

(iii)If it is revealed that a Particular Advisory Committee member is unable to attend to his dutiesdue to sickness or being overseas, the Minister may appoint the officer who otherwisecovers his duties to the Advisory committee in his/her place.

(iv) A member who leaves office of the Advisory Committee is entitled to be re­appointed to

office unless that member had been removed from office,

(v)If a member of the advisory committee, appointed in terms of clause (e) of article 3(iv) of thePrecept, fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the committee, the Co-o perativeDevelopment Commissioner may appoint an alternative member in terms of the said articleand that member so appointed should serve the balance period of office of the member he/shesubstituted.

(vi) If a member appointed to the Advisory committee as per clauses (f) & (g) of article 3(iv)

absents himself/herself from three consecutive meetings of the committee, the Advisorycommittee should report that fact to the Minister.

Qualifications ofAdvisoryCommitteemembers and theirperiod in office.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

4 A

5.The Advisory committee may use, all or any, of the following powers listed below.

(i)Formulate policies to implement this scheme.

(ii)Counsel the Director on matters related to management, operation andimplementation of the scheme.

(iii)Monitoring and appraising the activities of the scheme

6.(i) The Secretary to the Minister in charge of the subject of Co-operative is the chairman ofthe Advisory Executive Committee and he / she should chair all the meetings of theCommittee.

(ii)The Director is the secretary to the Advisory Committee. He/ She should call all the meetingsof the committee and conduct the meetings in such a way, so as to achieve the objectivesset out in the Precept.

(iii) When a vacancy or vacancies exist in the Advisory Committee, that fact should not be a

reason for the decisions taken at the meetings to be invalid.

(iv) The quorum for the meetings of the advisory committee should be four members

7.The members of the Advisory committee may be paid a stipend for attending the meetings

of the committee; an amount determined by the Minister in charge of Co-oporative inconcurrence with the Minister of Finance of the Southern Provincial Council.

Section 2

Implementing the Co-operative Employee's Pension Scheme

8.A Co-operative employee, who joined the service before the effective date of this Precept,

employed up to this date, and not less than 18 years of age and up to 60 years of age,with a permanent appointment, is entitled to join this scheme.

9.The employees who join the permanent service of the Co-oporative employment from

the date this Precept comes into effect are essentially required to join this scheme.

10.(i) A Co-oporative Society employee who joins this scheme (hereinafter known as a

contributor) is entitle to the following benefits under this scheme on a basis determinedby directives.

(a)A pension salary stipulated on periods of time

(b)A Death gratuity here in after named Gratuity, stipulated based on periods of time

(ii) The basis for determining the payment of Pension salary and Death Gratuity should

take into consideration the period of contribution, the age of the contributor and thequantum of the contribution made by the contributor.

11.(i) The contributor should be entitled to the Pension salary upon completing 60 years of age.

However, even though a contributor who has commenced his contribution has completedmaking his/her stipulated contribution, the entitlement to the pension salary will commenceonly after one year from the date of approval of the scheme.

The role of theAdvisoryCommittee

Meetings of theAdvisoryCommittee

Vacancy/Vacancies

Qualificationsto join thescheme

Mandatory to bea Contributor

Benefits of theScheme

Instances wherepensions shouldbe paid

Stipend of theAdvisoryCommittee

Quorum

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(ii) whatever the date of the month on which the contributor dies, the pension salary shall be

paid for the full month.

12.In the event where the 12.contributor dies before he/she becomes entitled to receive his/her pension salary, a stipulated Death gratuity will be paid to the dependents survived, onthe basis of directives.

13(1) If a contributor, before he/she becomes entitle to receive a pension salary, has been found

to have caused a financial loss to the employer, the co-operative society, by a legitimateinvestigation, such contributor will not be entitled to any pension salary or a gratuityunder this Precept. However, having compensated the said financial loss caused by him/her, the contributor will entitle himself/herself to continue with the scheme as per thedirectives issued and as per the provisions of article 14 of this Precept.

(ii) (a) In the event where a contributor, at the time of his/her retirement from services is subject

to an investigation on account of a financial loss caused to the employer, the corporativesociety, the Director shall have the authority to withhold temporarily, any payment onaccount of the Pension scheme to that contributor, until the investigation is brought to aconclusion.

(b)If the investigation as per 13 (ii) (a) is taking more than three months, thecontributor may be paid half, or less of the pension salary, with the approvalof the Advisory committee, without prejudice to the investigation underway.

(c)If the contributor is found not guilty at the investigation held as per 13 (ii)(a) above, the contributor is entitled to receive his pension salary effectivefrom the date he/she retired.

14 (1).At the time a Co-oporative employee is enlisted as a contributor to the scheme, the Directorshould issue a certificate containing;

(a)the amount payable by the contributor as the contribution

(b)the amount payable by the co-operative society as its contribution

(c)the directions and conditions of the certificate

(d)the benefits receivable by the contributor as per the certificate issued to thecontributor.

(ii)If a contributor has failed to make his contribution, due on a particular Day, threetimes, consecutively or from time to time, that member shall disown benefits he issaid to be entitled to, as per the certificate issued.

(iii)In a situation where a member (contributor) is to lose the benefits he/she is said tobe entitled as per the certificate issued, the Director should communicate that to themember concerned by a notice.

(iv)The contributor should have the right to have system to make an appeal to theDirector to revalidate a certificate as per the directives prescribed, and when thereason of delay for paying the installments is beyond the contributors control and ifthe Director is satisfied as to that fact, the Director may revalidate the certificate.

(v)When the Director decides to revalidate a certificate, the contributor should beinformed of the date before which the installments should be paid and if the contributor

Death Gratuity.

Non-entitlementto the PensionSalary

The Directorshould issuecertificates toeach & everymember.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

6 A

fails to pay the installments as stipulated, the particular certificate of the contributormay be treated as canceled.

15.The contributors or the Pension Scheme should pay the contribution monies of this schemeas per the stipulations prescribed by the directives. The contributions made by thecontributors to this scheme, employed in co-oporative societies, should be transferred tothe Scheme by the co-oporative society. The date on which the contributions are stipulatedto be paid as per the directives should be particularly notified and if a co-oporative societyis not making the payment on that stipulated day that society should be subjected to a fineas per the directives.

16.(i)In the event where a particular co-oporative society’s registration has been canceledpending legal liquidation and if the contributor has made his contribution right upto the date of cancellation, the pension salary should be paid as stipulated in thedirectives.

(ii) if one Co-oporative society is integrating by law with another Co-oporative societyor, on the other hand, if a single corporative society is deviding itself in to two ormore societies legally, the contributor should not consider these eventualities asmeasures of losing his/her pension rights but rather as an entitlement to retain his/her rights under the resulting corporative society that is the new employer.

17. The Director should determine the benefits to be granted to a contributor as per the stipulations

made on directives.

18.(i)A contributor not in agreement with the decision of the Director could make anappeal to the Co-oporative Employees Commission.

(ii)A contributor not in agreement with the decision of the Director could make anappeal to the Co-oporative Employees Commission within 30 days after receiving thedecision of the Director.

(iii)The ruling of the Co-oporative Employees Commission on the appeal should benotified to the appellant within 90 days of making the appeal.

(iv)The ruling of the Co-oporative Employees Commission on such an appeal should be

final and effective.

19.A pension salary, gratuity or a grant payable by the scheme should not be transferred orconceded to a third party and all such transfers or acts of ceding will be invalid, ineffectiveand zeroed. Except under this Precept or except under the authority granted to the Director bydirectives issued as per this Precept, no third party may attempt to obtain a writ notice or a lienon account of a loan or any such due from the contributor to this scheme against his/herpension salary, gratuity or grant under this Precept.

Section 3

Co-oporative Employee’s Pension Fund

20 (i). A Co-oporative Employees Pension Fund, here in after referred here as the Fundshould be instituted.

Contributions.

The liquidationor integrationwill not depriveof the pensionsalary.

Grants to bedecided by theDirector.

Right to appeal.

Appeals to bemade within 30days

Transfer orrecovery notpermitted fromthe pension,grants and thegratuity.

Co-oporativeemployee'sPension Fund.

Ruling onappeals within90 days.

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(ii) The said Fund could be credited with;

(a)monies sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council from time to time forthe purpose of operating this scheme.

(b)Quantums of funds granted by the Provincial Minister of Finance from timeto time as advances to the Director.

(c)Monies credited by the Co-oporative Fund

(d)Monies received, annually or periodically, from co-oporative societies

(e)Monies received on account of exercising one’s own authority inaccomplishing tasks and achieving objectives under this Precept

(f)Monies received in the form of gifts and grants from connected associations

(g)Monies received from contributors to the scheme as stipulatedContributions

(h)Monies received from investments as interests or as profits. All moniesreceived as gifts and donations from connected parties and monies receivedas advances by the Director from Co-oporative societies in the performanceof duties under this precept.

(iii) In conducting the affairs of this Fund it is necessary that a Current account of the Fund

should be opened in a Government Bank.

(iv) This Fund should bear the expenses of all items of expenditure incurred by the Advisory

executive committee and the Director in the performance of their duties and in exercisingtheir authority in achieving the objectives of this precept and the expenditure incurred ondirectives issued under this precept.

21. As per this Precept, all monies of the Fund, other than those that are needed for immediate

expenses by the director, should be invested by the Director in a Government Bank or a GovernmentFinance institution as determined by the Advisory executive committee.

22. The Director with the approval of the Advisory Executive committee may obtain loans from the

Co-oporative fund in order to fulfill the obligations of the Director, or in other words, to meet therequirements of this scheme and to accomplish the objectives of this Precept.

23.(i) The Financial year of the scheme shall be the calendar year from January to Decemberof the year.

(ii)It is the responsibility of the Director to ensure that the Accounts are maintainedaccording to accepted accounting principles, fundamentals and standards. For thispurpose, the Director may obtain the services of the Accountant of the southernProvince Corporative Development Department.

(iii) The Director should prepare an estimate of the annual expenditure for the operation of

the scheme and present same to the Advisory Committee and obtain its approval.

(iv) At the end of every quarter a Three Month’s Income and Expenditure statement should

be prepared, and that statement should be presented to the Advisory committee within30 days of the end of that quarter.

Investingmonies

Authority toobtain credit &Loans

Financial Year

Preparing theAccounts

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

8 A

(v)The Director should facilitate the preparation and balancing of account As at 31st

December of every year and an Income and expenditure account and a Balance sheetgiving a summary of the assets and liabilities as at that date, should be presented to theAdvisory committee before 31st March of the following year.

(vi) Thereafter the information contained in 23. (v) above should be presented to the

Provincial Council before 30th June of that year.

(vii) Every year the accounts of the scheme should be audited by, either the officer in charge

of audits of the Provincial Council, or according to law by the Auditor General’sDepartment.

4th Section

Miscellaneous Matters

24(i) The Minister, as per this Precept is called upon to issue directives on certain matters

mentioned as ‘the Minister should’ and ‘the minister may’ at instances in this precept.Therefore, the Minister in charge of Co-oporative may Issue directives on thoseparticularly, and generally on matters mentioned below.

(a)To regularize, administer and manage the Pension Scheme.

(b)To determine, as to under what qualifications, conditions, circumstances and underwhat limitations a corporative employee is entitle to become a member of this scheme.

(c)To determine the amount of money to be contributed by the members themselves,and by the Co-oporative societies on behalf of the contributors.

(d)To determine the basis on which Pensions, gratuity and grants are to be paid tothe contributors.

(e)To determine the conditions regarding non - payment of contributions.

(f)To Institute rules and work procedures on the Advisory executive committeeactivities.

(g)To Institute rules and work procedures on the appeal making process.

(h)To determine on the cancellation and the revalidation of the claim Certificate.

(i)To determine the basis of payment and the quantum to be paid on the deathgratuity.

(j)To determine the relevant specifications and formats.

(ii)All directives issued by the Minister should be published in the Gazette publication. Thus,the directives so issued will be effective, either on the day published or on the day asmentioned’ to be effective from in the directives.

(iii)the directives, after publication in the Gazette should be submitted to the Provincial Councilwithout delay for approval. After approval by the PC such approvals should also be publishedin the Gazette. However, those directives that fail to obtain PC approval should be treated asrescinded from the date it failed to obtain approval but with no effect on activity that mayhave been initiated before that date. The directive that is rescinded should also be publishedin the Gazette.

Accounts shouldbe presented tothe ProvincialCouncil

Auditing theAccounts

Preparing theDirectives

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

25.Under this Precept, it should not be possible to file a civil or criminal case against an officer,

citing exceptions and exigencies, who has otherwise acted in good faith in the conduct of his/her duties with the sole intention of fulfilling the task entrusted to that officer. The categoryof officer that come under this situation could be listed as under.

(i)The Director, the Advisory Executive Committee, a member of the Advisory Executivecommittee, Co-oporative Employees Commission or a member of the CorporativeEmployees Commission.

(ii)An officer or an employee, of this scheme or of the Co-oporative Employees Commissionwho acts on the directive of the Director, Advisory Executive Committee or theCorporative Employees Commission.

26.Every Co-oporative society, that acts in breach of the provisions of this Precept, or theprovisions of the directives issued under this Precept and the corporative societies that failsto comply with those said provisions are guilty of an offense and thus when proven guiltybefore a Magistrate at a summary trial, should be subjected to a period of imprisonment notexceeding 6 months in one of the two ways or to a fine of rupees twelve thousand or to apenalty of both, the fine and the imprisonment.

27.Unless an alternative definition is required, the following terms used in this precept shouldgenerally mean as below.

‘Provincial Council5 should mean the Southern Provincial Council.‘Minister’ should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Co-oporative in the SouthernProvincial Council at the time.

‘Co-oporative Employee’s Commission’ should mean The Southern Province Co-oporativeEmployee’s Commission instituted by the Southern Province Co-oporative Employees CommissionPrecept No. 1 of 1998.

‘Co-oporative Society’ should mean a Co-oporative society registered in the Southern Provinceunder the Co-oporative Society Act, No.5 of 1972, amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and Act, No.32of 1983.

‘Co-oporative Society Association’ should mean a Co-oporative society comprising of a numberof Co-oporative societies registered in the Southern Province under the Co-oporative SocietyAct, No.5 of 1972, amended by Act, No. 11 of 1992 and Act, No.32 of 1983.

‘Employee’ should mean an employee who has secured a permanent position in a Co-oporativeSociety/ Co-oporative Society Association as defined by the Co-oporative Employees CommissionAct, No. 12 of 1972 and by the Southern Province Co-oporative Employees Commission PreceptNo. 1 of 1998.

A ‘Legitimate Inquiry’ should mean a proper inquiry conducted in terms of the provisions ofAct, No. 5 of 1972 amended by Act, No. 32 of 1983 and Act. No. 11 of 1992.

28.In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of thisPrecept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.

04 - 890

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Protection forthe action takenunder thisPrecept, or asper directive bythe authorities

Offences &Penalties

Definitions

Effective versionin aninconsistency