==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

අංංක 2486/13 - 2026 අප්‍රේේල් මස 28 වැැනි අඟහරුවාාදාා - 2026.04.28No. 2486/13 - TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 2026

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & c., by the President

1A - G 46719 - 355 (04/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

ORDER BY THE Hon. PRESIDENT

Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979

BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 2 of the Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do by this Order, considering it necessary that the services provided by any Public Corporation or Government Department or Local Authority or Co-operative Society or any branch thereof being a Department or Corporation or Local Authority or Co-operative Society, which is engaged in provision of the services specified in the Schedule hereto, is essential to the life of the community and is likely to be impeded or interrupted due to the post-disaster situation caused by Cyclone Ditwah, declare the services specified in the Schedule hereto to be an essential public service for the purposes of the aforesaid Section.

Given on the 28th day of April, Two Thousand and Twenty Six.

By Order of the Hon. President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

SealAnura Kumara Dissanayake

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'04'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.04.20262A

SCHEDULE

1. All services connected to the supply of electricity2. The supply or distribution of fuel, including petroleum products and gas3. All service, work or labour, of any description whatsoever, necessary or required to be done in connection with the maintenance, and the reception, care feeding and treatment, of patients in hospitals, nursing homes, dispensaries, and other similar institution4. Public transport services for the transportation of passengers or goods5. The Facilitation and maintenance of transportation services and tourism services by road, rail, or air, including highways, bridges, culverts, airports, ports, and railways6. All services connected to the supply of water and drainage7. All services connected with the supply, safeguard, and distribution of food and essential commodities8. All type of services, works, or labour contributions which should be carried out or required to be carried out by District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Grama Niladharis, Samurdhi Development Officers, Agricultural Research Assistants, Community Empowerment Officers, Officers of the Clean Sri Lanka Centralized Team, including all field level officers of all District and Divisional Secretariats.9. Ambulance services10. All state banking and insurance services including the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.11. Any services carried out by any Local Authorities for the supply of water, electricity, drainage and sewerage systems, fire-fighting and ambulance services, scavenging and the removal of garbage (including the carriage and disposal of feces), and all services carried out by Local Authorities12. All services connected to the irrigation13. All services connected to the telephone, telecommunication, and media14. All services connected to the reclamation and development of low-lying lands15. All services connected to the agriculture and agricultural insurance services

EOG 04 - 0229

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.