w;s úfYI

wxl 2373$22 - 2024 fmnrjdß ui 27 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024'02'27No. 2373/22 - tuesday, february 27, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A- G 41492 - 09 (02/2024) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Delegation of powers

by the notification published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2360/60 dated 01st of December 2023, among the subjects, functions, departments, public corporations as well as statutory institutions and the laws and acts to be implemented which are assigned to me by the Honourable President in accordance with Article 44(2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, it is hereby announced that the functions and tasks, Institutions, projects and acts mentioned in the following schedule will be transferred to the Honourable State Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs with effect from the date 01st December 2023 in accordance with the powers vested in me by Article 45(5) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Harin Fernando (M.P.), Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs.At Colombo,09th February, 2024.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'27Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.02.20242A

Schedule No. 01

Functions and TasksProjects of the Departments,Statutory InstitutionsLaws and Acts to be implemented1. On the advice and guidance of the Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs, to support the formulation of policies related to sports and youth affairs in accordance with the relevant laws and acts in order to "grow a vibrant generation", to implement projects under the National Budget, Public Investment and National Development Programme to formulate, implement, follow up and evaluate the subjects and functions of the following departments, government corporations and statutory institutions and related policies, programmes and projects.

2. Preparation of a programme to introduce sports activities to the youth through youth clubs and sports clubs as an extra-curricular activity from school education to prevent youth from turning to anti-social aspects.

3. Implementation of a programme for a healthy generation of children by attracting school children to physical education and sports in addition to education.

4. Implementation of a programme that provides facilities including required proper nutrition and training to identify children who are talented in sports in rural schools spread across the island from early age and bring their skills to international level.

5. Implementation of a special programme to produce resource persons such as sports counselors, coaches and physiotherapists required for the development of sports.

6. Development of playgrounds and pavilions all over the island in accordance with accepted standardization.

7. Distribution of required equipment and goods for the development of rural sports.

8. Preparation of a programme for the advancement of local traditional sports.

9. Expansion of sports education in accordance with the international standards.

10 Development of sports education, training and researches.

Sri Lanka Anti Doping Agency

Institute of Sports Medicine

National Institute of Sports Science

Convention Against Doping in Sports Act (2013 No. 33)

EOG 02- 0191

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.