==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.01.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2001$2 - 2017 ckjdß ui 09 jeks i`ÿod - 2017'01'09No. 2001/2 - MONDAY, JANUARY 09, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

L.D.B. 24/51(iv)

THE MOTOR TRAFFIC ACT (CHAPTER 203)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation under Section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter203) read with subsection (2) of Section 5 and Section 19 of the aforesaid Act.

NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILVA,Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation.

Colombo,04th January 2017.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the Motor Traffic (Motor Tricycle) Regulations, No. 01 of 2017.

2. (1) Every owner of a motor tricycle who uses such motor tricycle for the purpose of transportation of personsfor hire or otherwise shall ensure that the off side (right side) opening to the passenger’s compartment of the motortricycle is partially or fully closed permanently to prevent any entry or exit by a passenger.

(2) (a) A driver of a motor tricycle shall not allow any passenger to enter into or exit from the motor tricycleby scaling over the off side (right side) of the motor tricycle.

(b) No person shall enter into or exit from the motor tricycle by scaling over the off side (right side) of themotor tricycle.

(3) For the purpose of this regulation, two children under age of Twelve years shall be counted as One passengerfor the purpose of the number of passengers.

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.01.20172A

3. An owner of a motor tricycle shall ensure that-

(a)the support of all seats of a motor tricyle shall be firmed in position and at least 382 and 250 millimetersmeasured in a straight line along the front of each seat shall be allowed for each adult and childrespectively ;

(b)the shorters distance between the front edge of the driver seat of a motor tricyle and vertical planepassing through the nearest edge of the panel shall not be less than 300 millimeters ;

(c)the shortest distance between the front edge of the passenger seats of a motor tricycle and verticalplane passing through nearest point of the back rest of a front seat shall not be less than 230 millimeters.

(d)the minimum clear distance between the back rest of any consecutive two seats fitted on the motortricycle shall not be less than 660 millimeters ; and

(e)the seats facing each other shall not be fitted to a motor tricycle.

4. No person other than the driver of the motor tricycle shall be carried in the driver’s compartment or on thedriver’s seat.

5. The speed limit of the motor tricycle shall be subject to the provisions of the Motor Traffic (Speed Limits)Regulations, No. 01 of 2012 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1763/26 of June 22, 2012.

6. The owner or driver of a motor tricycle shall not permit any person to distribute any advertisement, leaflet orhand bill while such motor tricycle is in motion on the road.

7. The driver of a motor tricycle which is in motion or parking shall not use or shall not cause to use any instrumentor equipment emanating sound so as to disturb or annoy other road users. The sound shall be regulated to ensure that it isconfined within the motor tricycle and intended for the hearing only of the occupation therein.

8 (1) An owner or driver of the motor tricycle shall ensure that -

(a)a speedometer is fitted to the motor tricycle in such a position to indicate clearly at all times to thedriver of the motor tricycle the speed at which the motor tricycle is driven ;

(b)electrically or electronically operated windscreen wiper is fitted in such a manner that the driver ofthe motor tricycle could obtain an unobstructed view to the front of the motor tricycle.

(c)every motor tricycle fitted with pneumatic tyres shall, while the motor tricycle is used on a roadcarry at least one spare wheel and other devices so that it is capable of being fitted quickly to a wheelor axle and every such motor tricycle fitted with pneumatic tyres of two different sizes shall in likemanner, carry at least one spare inflated tyre of each size ; and

(d)cover is fitted to protect the driver and the passengers from weather conditions.

(2) An owner of the motor tricycle shall ensure that the following components are fitted to the motor tricycleand are in good and working condition–

(a)two exterior rear view mirrors ;(b)head lamps with the head and dip beams and indicator ;(c)tail or stop lamp ;(d)side direction indicator lamp ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'01'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.01.20173A

(e)reverse lamp ;(f)two interior lamp for driver compartment and passenger compartment ;(g)parking lamps ; and(g)horn

9. Where the motor tricycle is used for the purpose of carrying persons or goods for fee or reward

(a)the owner or driver of the motor tricycle shall cause to be examined the motor tricycle annually afterexpiration of two years from the first registration for the issue of the fitness certificate under theprovisions of Section 196 of the Motor Trafffic Act and the effective date for issuance such certificateshall be declared by the Commissioner General

(b)the following information shall be displated behind the driver seat to be clealy visible topassengers -

(i)registration number ;(ii)name and driving license number of the driver ;(iii)a photograph of the driver (size : 65x50 millimeters)(iv)telephone numbers of the respective police stations where the vehicle is registered to informin the case of emergency

(c)the driver of a motor tricycle shall–

(i)behave in a civil and orderly manner ;(ii)not smoke ;(iii)not terminate the hiring before he has been discharged by the hire ; and(iv)carry passengers to their destinations by the shortest possible route within the shortest timeunless otherwise requested by them.

at all the times while he is on duty.

10. (1) Every owner of a motor tricycle who uses such motor tricycle for the purpose of transportation ofpersons or goods for hire or otherwise shall fix a taximeter which shall be operational at all the time.

(2) Upon the payment of such fare, it shall be the duty of the driver of such motor tricycle to issue a receipt tothat effect. Such receipt shall include the distance travelled, vehicle registration number, amount charged and date ofreceipt.

11. The driver of the motor tricycle shall, on completion of every journey, examine the motor tricycle for anyarticle accidentially left therein by any passenger. If any article is found and it is not claimed immediately by the owner,the drivers shall, without undue delay take it to the nearest police station and deliver it to the officer in charge of suchstation and acknowledge receipt of such article.

12. (1) An owner of a motor tricycle shal ensure that no letters, figures or degits except descriptive informationmarked thereon by the manufacturer of the motor tricycle is marked on the front and rear of the motor tricycle.

13. The Motor Traffic (Motor Tricycle) Regulations No. 01 of 2013 published in Gazette ExtraordinaryNo. 1821/31 of July 31, 2013 is hereby rescinded.

14. In these regulations “motor tricycle” shall have the same meaning as in the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203).

01 - 727

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.