==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 07.12.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2048$32 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'12'07No. 2048/32 - THURSDAY, DECEMBER 07, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A – G 26740 — 457 (12/2017)

STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT NO. 14 OF 2008

Notification under Section 3(4)

BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(4) of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of2008 as amended, I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in charge of the subject of Development Strategies andInternational Trade, do by this Notification-

(1) Identify the Project to restructure the Hambantota Port (Port) development and transform it to be acommercially viable national asset in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority (“Project”) with anenvisaged investment of United States Dollars Six Hundred and Six Million (US$ 606Mn). The Project is toundertake the management of all the common user facilities and services of the Port of Hambantota such as,including but not limited to, port security, navigational services, pilotage, anchorage, provision of aids tonavigation, dredging, widening (capital and maintenance), emergency response and pollution control services(“Project Activity”) and was published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2044/20 dated 6th November,2017 as per the Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act No. 14 of 2008;

(2) State that in terms of Sub- Section (3) of Section (3) of the aforesaid Act, the approval of Cabinet of Ministers hasbeen obtained to declare the project to restructure the Hambantota Port (Port) development and transform itto be a commercially viable national asset (“Project”) with an envisaged investment of United States DollarsSix Hundred and Six Million (US$ 606Mn)as a Strategic Development Project.

(3) Specify that the above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the project to restructure theHambantota Port (Port) development and transform it to be a commercially viable national asset and theProject Company to undertake this project is M/S HAMBANTOTA INTERNATIONAL PORT SERVICESCOMPANY (PRIVATE) LIMITED (“the Project Company);

(4) The Project Company shall implement and commence commercial operations within Seven (07) years uponapproval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic Development Project Act No. 14of 2008 as amended.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 07.12.20172A

(5) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development ProjectsAct No. 14 of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in this Notification shall apply to the ProjectCompany.

SCHEDULE

(1) The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006

(i) Corporate Income Tax

The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax onthe Project Company on the profit, gain and income generated from the activities from the said Projectshall not apply for a period of twenty-five (25) years (“Tax Exemption Period”).

The said Tax Exemption Period shall commence seven (07) years from the Effective Date of theConcession Agreement dated 29th July, 2017, for the Port of Hambantota entered between the SriLanka Ports Authority (SLPA), Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (GOSL),China Merchants Port Holdings Company Limited (CMPort), Hambantota International Port Group(Private) Limited (HIPG) and the Project Company (Concession Agreement).

Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period income tax in respect of the profits,gains and income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the InlandRevenue Act for the time being in force.

Provided however, the equity transaction or asset transfer that takes place for the entry of the investor toHambantota Port Development Project of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment ofCorporate Income Tax

However, Economic Service Charge (ESC) will be applicable at the rate of 0.05% of gross operationrevenue of the Project during the above Tax Exemption Period.

(ii) Tax on Dividends

Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit, gain shall be exempted from theincome tax during the said Tax Exemption Period of Twenty-five (25) years and one (01) year thereaftercommencing from the Effective Date of the Concession Agreement

(iii) Withholding Tax

The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following for a periodof seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of theStrategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended.

(a) on management fees and royalty payments provided however that total of such charges does notexceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue;

(b) on marketing fees, provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five percentum (1.5%) of the gross operating revenue; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 07.12.20173A

(c) on incentive management fees, provided however the total of such fees does not exceed three percentum (3%) of the gross operating profit.

However, the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on interest onforeign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees or service fees paid to consultants fora period of twenty five (25) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms ofSection 3(5) of the Strategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended.

(iv) PAYE Tax

The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from Payment of Pay As You Earn Tax (PAYE)applicable for a period of seven (7) years, commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in termsof Section 3(5) of the Strategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended and subject to themaximum number of Three (3) employees at any given time.

(2) Value Added Tax (VAT) Act No. 14 of 2002

All imports of Project related goods and local purchases of Project related goods or services required for theimplementation of the Project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exempted from thepayment of Value Added Tax (VAT), for a period of seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution ofParliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended. Theexemption in relation to local purchases and imports shall be applicable to the Project Company’s contractor orsub-contractor for the purposes of the Project.

Provided however, the equity transaction or asset transfer that take place for the entry of the investor toHambantota Port Development Project of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of VAT.

(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) Act No. 18 of 2011

The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development Levy(PAL), on the Project related goods, as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, imported during theseven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the strategicDevelopment Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended. The exemption shall be applicable on direct imports bythe Project Company for the Project or on imports by a contractor or sub-contractor for the purposes of theProject, subject to the conditions referred to in item No. (07) below.

(4) Excise (Special Provision) Act No. 13 of 1989

Import of Project related items, other than vehicles used for travelling, as approved by the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka shall be exempted from the Excise Duty Payment during the seven (7) years upon approval byresolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the Strategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 asamended. The exemption shall be applicable to the Project Company’s contractor or sub-contractor for thepurposes of the Project.

(5) The Sri Lanka Export Development Act No. 40 of 1979

Import of Project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted from thepayment of CESS during the seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms ofSection 3(5) of the Strategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended. The exemption shall beapplicable to the Project Company’s contractor or sub-contractor for the purposes of the Project.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 07.12.20174A

(6) Nation Building Tax (NBT)

The Project Company, the contractor and the sub – contractors shall be exempted from the Nation Building Taxduring the seven (7) years commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of theStrategic Development Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended.

Provided however, the equity transaction or asset transfer that take place for the entry of the investor toHambantota Port Development Project of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment ofNBT.

(7) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items [Customs Ordinance – Chapter 235]

All imports of Project related items, other than vehicles used for travelling, will be exempted from the customsduty as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, for the purpose of the Project during the seven (7)years commencing upon the approval by resolution of Parliament in terms of Section 3(5) of the StrategicDevelopment Project Act No. 14 of 2008 as amended. The exemption from customs duty shall be applicable toall imports of Project related items required for the Project, whether directly imported by the Project Company orsourced through the contractors or sub-contractors, as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lankaduring the seven (7) years, commencing upon approval by resolution of Parliament . The Items in the NegativeList shall also be exempted from the Customs Duty, provided such items are either not wholly produced in SriLanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Project completion.

Malik Samarawickrama, MPMinister of Development Strategies and International Trade.

On this 07th day of December, 2017.

12- 653

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.