I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'28PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2151$50 - 2019 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'11'28No. 2151/50 - THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

PILGRIMAGE ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 175)

The Pageant in which the Statute of Deity Sri Sumana Saman and The Enclouser Casket with Relics willbe carried to the Sri-Pada

EIGHT years after the entering into the world great Buddha-hood, place the respectful foot emblem on the top of theSamantha-Kuta Summit in view of the invitation of the deity Sri Sumana Saman and made Sri Lanka purified. On that dayonwards it was respected and worshiped and reverenced by the Kings and high esteems :-

The statute of the deity Sri Sumana Saman is deposited in the Deity's Palace in the Sri Pada Raja Maha ViharaTemple situated in Galpoththawala of Kuttapitiya Village in the Pelmadulla of Nawadum Korale of Ratnapura District inthe Sabaragamu Province during the off season.

1. On the day before full moon poya of Unduwap of the year 2019, the ceremonial pageant in which the statute ofthe deity Sri Sumana Saman and the Enclosure Casket with relics will be carried on auspisious hour fromGalpoththawala Sri Rajamaha Vihara to mount Samantha-Kuta as follows :

* The statute of the deity will be open to devotees for offerings and worshipping from 09.12.2019 atevening to 10.12.2019 early morning.

* Early in the morning of 10.12.2019, the pageant will start from Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara.

I. on 2019.12.10 after the buddha pooja early morning the vehicle pageant will be conducted fromGalpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla, Rathnapura, Kuruwita, Eheliygoda, Awissawella,Dehiowita, Karawanella, Yatiyanthota, Ambagamuwa, Hatton, Maskeliya, Nall-thanni.

II. on 2019.12.10 early morning the vehicle pageant will be conducted from Galpoththawela Sri Pada RajaMaha Vihara to Pelmadudlla Town, Ganegama, Pathakada, Sannasgama, Dippitigala, Lellopitiya,

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 31594— 27 (11/2019)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'11'28PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.20192A

Welimaluwa, Pathulpana, Pelwadiya, Thiriwanaketiya, Batugedara, Warakathota, Kudugalwaththa, UrbanCouncil, clock tower, Dharmapala Mawatha, Moragahayata, Panadura Road, Galkaduwa, reache,Sabaragamuwa Maha Saman Devalaya and return to Moragahayata, Hospital Junction, Weralupe Junction,New Town Moragahayata, Hidellena Vidyalaya Mawatha, Farmgarden Junction, New Town, WeralupeJunction, Moragahayata, Pergasan Road, Bus stop, Kudugal Waththa thorugh Godigamuwa Malwala Road,to Sri Palabathgala Raja maha vihara, held the vehicle pageant with Kuruwita Eranda pageant conductedfrom Galpothawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla, Ganegama, Pathakada, Sannasgama, Thipitigala,Lellopitiya, Welimalua, Pathupana, Pelwadiya, Thiruwanaketiya, Batugethara, Warakathota, Kudugal Waththa,Urban Council, Clock Tower, near the Dharmapala Mawaththa, Moragahayata, Galkaduwa, reach SamanDhewalaya done Buddha pooja, and return Kahangama Holipitiya, Gorakaela junction through pahathgamato Kuruwiya town Katuthiyambarawa through eknaligoda to reach Warnagala through Eratna Road, After thePalabathgala pageant, held the Pilgrimage.

III. ON 2019.12.10 early Morning from Galpoththawela Sri Pada Raja Maha Vihara to Pelmadulla Town,Iddamalgoda, Meegahagoda, Rambuka Bodhi, Morathota Junction, Hunuwala, Delgasgawa, Opanayaka,Udawela, Welage, Balangoda, Elle arawa, Morahela, Pinnawala reach Bolthumbe Saman Dewalaya returnto through Marathenna, Bagawanthalawa Norwood, Hatton Junction Maskeliya to Nall-Thanniya.

Thereafter through Royal road and Hatton road the statute of the deity and the enclosure casket with relicswill be carried in “Dolawa” upto the top of the Samantha Kuta Summit and the pageant and the ceremonywill be ended.*

* The priority should be given to vehicles nominated by the Chief Incumbent Thero and the other vehiclesshould follow -suit after those vehicles without obstructing the line-up.

2. Here by declare that trading in the temple premises is prohibited. The conducting of trading activities and dansalcould be done along the main road and the by-roads upto the Sri Pada Vihara but without any obstruction to thedevotees and the Pageant.

3. Hereby declare that collection of aids and contributions are prohibited from Pelmadulla Town up to Sri PadaTemple premises.

4. Hereby declare that parking of private vehicles from the main road to Sri Pada Temple obstructing the devoteesand pageant is prohibited.

5. The Ceylon Electricity Board and the Pradeshiya Sabhawa of Pelmadulla are entrusted with the work of fixingstreet lamps and extra lamps in the temple premises and its surroundings roads.

6. Prior to and after the pegeant festival matters related to health care and sanitary and removal of garbage areentrusted with the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabhawa and office of the medical officer of health.

7. The branch office of the Water Supplies and Drainage Board is entrusted with the work of provision of water bykeeping extra water tanks.

8. The police and security services are entrusted with all sort of security measures on the traffic controlling requiredfor uninterrupted conduct of the pageant and moments of devottees.

9. The statute and the relics will be worshipped and offerings will be given at the Sri Pada Station for six months andafter the day of coming Wesak Poya day those will be deposited at Deity's Palace at Raja Maha Vihara ofGalpoththawala and worshipped and offerings will be given. The above 8 orders are valid until to that day.

B. S. G. RUWANSIRI,Divisional Secretary,Pelmadulla.

12 - 435

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.