==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Council Notifications

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

The draft of the Co-operative Employees Commission Statute of Western Province Provincial Council is mentioned below.

KEJITAN LALITH WANIGARATHNE,Minister of the Western Provincial Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade, Housing and Constructions, EstateInfrastructure Facilities, Industry andRural Development.

At the Ministry of Western Provincial Roads, Transport,Co-operative Development and Trade, Housingand constructions, Estate Infrastructure Facilities,Industry and Rural Development,No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,Battaramulla,26th September, 2018

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG4311 – 307 (11/2018)

wxl 2097$16 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 14 jeks nÞod – 2018'11'14No. 2097/16 – WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2018

2AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018

Co-operative Employees Commission Statute of Western ProvinceProvincial Council

A STATUTE TO ESTABLISH AND INCORPORATE A PROVINCIAL COMMISSION TO BEKNOWN AS THE WESTERN PROVINCE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION TOMAKE SPECIAL PROVISION IN RESPECT OF THE EMPLOYEES OF CO-OPERATIVESOCIETIES IN THE WESTERN PROVINCE AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTEDTHEREWITH OR INCIDENTIAL THERETO AND TO ALLOCATE PROVISIONS TO REPEALTHE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION STATUTE NO. 01 OF 1994. THIS STATUTEIS INCONSISTENT WITH THE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION ACT. NO.12 OF1972.

Be it enforced by the Provincial Council of the Western Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka as Follows.

1. This Statute may be cited as the Co-operative Employees Commission Statute of Western ProvinceProvincial Council No. ………… of 2018 and shall come into Operation from the date of assent of theGovernor of Western Province.

PART I

constitution, powers and functions of the western provincial Co-operative Employees Commission

2. (1) A Western Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission hereinafter cited as ‘‘the commission’’shall be incorporated hereby.

(2) The Commission by the name asigned to it by Subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall haveperpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.

3. (1) The Commission shall consist of the following three members appointed by the minister.

(a) A retired person of Sri Lanka Administrative Service,(b) Attorney - at - law of Supreme Court,(c) A retired officer at executive level in the State institution or in a State Corporation or a board ofState.

(2) The member appointed under above subssection 1 (a) shall be appointed by the minister as thechairman of Commission.

(3) The appointments made under above Subsections (1) and (2) shall be published in the Gazettepaper as effective from the date of Oath- taking or affirmation - making at a Court - of - Law.

4. Provided that a person is;

(a) an officer or employee or former officer or employee of a cooperative society or,

(b) a member of a co-operative society or union or person drawing a salary or wage from otherinstitution serving on behalf of a cooperative society or,

(c) a member of Parliament, member of Provincial Council or councilor of a Local GovernmentAuthority or person connected to active politics or,

(d) not a citizen of Sri Lanka or,

Short Title anddate ofoperation.

Constitute of theCommission.

Disqualificationsto become amember.

Establishment ofCo-operativeEmployerCommission.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.20183A

(e) decided or declared as a mentally instable person under the valid law of Sri Lanka or law operatingin any other country or,

(f)convicted as an offender of an offence of criminal nature or was convicted so by a Court-of-lawin Sri Lanka or any other country or,

(g) a member removed from office or a member whose membership was annulled as per Section 6 ofthis statute,

he shall be disqualified to be appointed or function as a member of the Commission.

5. (1) Each member of the Commission shall hold office for a period of not more than three years fromthe date of his appointment. Further, unless remove from office under Subsection 6(1), shall notbe disqualified to be reappointed.

(2) A member appointed to fill the vacancy created by a member's removal or resignation from theoffice of member, shall hold such office for the remaining period of the official tenure of themember he/she replaced.

(3) In the event of a member being unable temporarily to accomplish the duties of his office due tobad health or other disability or being away from Sri Lanka, the minister may appoint a memberto the Commission to act on his behalf.

6. (1) On being dissatisfied as to the modus operandi of any member, the minister may terminate hisoffice as member.

(2) A member of the commission may at any time resign from his office or chairmanship by way of aresignation letter sent to the minister and upon conveyance by the minister that the said resignationhas been accepted.

(3) The office of a member, who fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Commission withoutformal permission obtained from the minister, will terminate.

7. (1) The person appointed as the chairman of the commission shall preside at all meeting of thecommission at which he is present. In the absence of the chairman for any meeting of thecommission by agreement of the two members present, one of them shall preside at the meeting.

(2) Two members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting of the Commission.

(3) If at any meeting only two members of the Commission are present and such members are dividedin opinion as to the decision to be taken on any question such question shall be referred to ameeting at which all three members of the Commission are present.

(4) If at any meeting, at which the three members of the Commission are divided in opinion as to thedecision to be given on any question, such question shall be decided according to the opinion ofthe majority of members present.

(5) The Commission may decide on a matter not provided with specific provisions by this statute orany order formulated under it, and the decision taken regarding the said matter shall be conclusive.

(6) Any act or proceeding of the Commission shall not be invalid by reason only of the existence ofa vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of any of its members.

Term of officeof member

Chairman of theCommission andmaintaining itsproceedings

4AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018

8. The Chairman and members of the Commission shall be paid such remuneration and such allowancesas may be determined by the Minister, in consultation with the Minister of Finance of the Province.

9.(1)There shall be a Secretary of the Commission and staff to assist him.

(2)The Secretary of the Commission shall be an officer of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.

10.(1)The members of the Commission shall on first appoinment take an oath or make an affirmationbefore a Judge of Court - of - Law in the form set out in the Schedule No. 01 to this statute.

(2)The Secretary to the Commission and such of the other officers of the Commission, shall , onfirst appointment, take an oath or make an affirmation in the form set out in the Schedule No. 02to this Statute within one month of being appointed to the Commission.

11. Provided that a person having any relationship deemed so by the Commission as the spouse, parents,children or a family member of a staff member of the Commission, holds an office in any CooperativeSociety, such officer is inappropriate to be appointed to the staff of the Commission.

12.(1)The Commission shall have the following powers : -

(a) To determine all matters relating to methods of recruitment to and conditions of employmentof employees of co-operative societies, and the principles to be followed by such societies inmaking appointments and in making promotions from one post in a co-operative society toanother post in the same society, to determine the qualifications necessary for appointmentto any such post.

(b) (i) To conduct examinations for recruitment as employees of co-operative societies of toappoint boards of examiners for the purpose of conducting such examinations and tocharge fees from candidates presenting themselves for examinations;

(ii) To conduct Efficiency Bar Examinations to measure the performance of employees of co-operative societies in relation to their promation and appointing boards of examiners onthat behalf and charge fees relevant to it:

(iii) To organize and conduct training courses relevant to the subject field of Co-operativeEmployees and charge relevant fees;

(c)to fix the scales of salaries to be attached to any such post or posts in any class, to reviseor adjust such scales or salaries from time to time in consultation with the Commissionerand to establish such consultative machinery as the Commission may deem necessary toassist it in determining the remuneration and conditions of service of co-operativeemployees;

(d)To require co-operative societies to pay salaries in accordance with the salary scale fixedby the Commission for any post or posts in any class or grade;

(e) (i) To examine cooperative employees' appeals relating to a decision of a co-operative society;

(ii) To determine the procedure or procedures to be followed by any co-operative society inexercising its rights of disciplinary action against its employees, to call upon any co-operative society to complete disciplinary inquiries against its employees within a time

Remunerationof members

Secretary andother officers

Taking ofoaths/makingaffirmations bymembers andofficers of thecommission

Disqualificationsto be appointedto the staff of theCommission

Powers of theCommission

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.20185A

stipulated by the commission and to hear appeals arising out of any disciplinary ordersmade by any co-operative society;

(f)To call upon any co-operative society to keep updated the prescribed records anddocuments relating to employees of that society;

(g)to call upon any co-operative society functioning within the province,

(i) to keep the prescribed name-lists or records relating to employees of that society and tofurnish before the Commission such reports or records when the Commission may requirein respect of any employees of that society;

(ii) to present to any officer who access the office of co-operative society for the purpose ofexamining any books, accounts records or any other documents kept therein and to handover to the custody of an officer authorized by the Commission.

(h)To inquire matters relevant to an appeal made by a co-operative employee to theCommission or any matter reported to the Commission relating to a co-operative employeeproblem, by calling a relevant officer or employee of the co-operative society, or any partythe Commission deems necessary to be called to the inquiry of the appeal.

(i)To call upon any co-operative society to furnish before a specified date such files, otherdocuments or information as the Commission may require in respect of any employee ofthat society;

(j)To nominate Appeals Inquiry Officers and panels of officers to make such inquiries as arenecessary on appeals that are referred by the Commission to such panel or panels and toreport thereon to the Commission;

(k)To require any co-operative society to carry out such instructions, including instructionsrelating to reinstatement, as may be given by the commission in regard to any employeesof such society, where the conduct of the employees has been the subject of an inquiryand the employees had appealed to the commission against the decision of the society;

(1)(i) To determine the general principals in accordance with which gratuity or other benefits may be granted to employees on the termination of their services;

(ii) To call upon the Society to pay any compensation amount prescribed by the Commission if there are any outstanding gratuity amount, security amount, salaries or due salaries or any benefits payable to them.

(m) (i) Whenever the Commission decides it is inappropriate for an employee to hold certainposition as per rules of procedure formulated under this statute; to call upon the relevantemployee or society to exercise any regulations conforming to that situation;

(ii) If the relevant employee fails to conform to a regulation made under above Sub - Section(1) by the Commission, to order to the co-operative society to terminate the relevantemployee’s service subsequent to giving him notice for a reasonable time period.

(n)To make regulations relating to appointment, transfer, promotion, disciplinary control andservice termination of employees of a co-operative society and matters incidental thereto.

(2)In the exercise of the powers vested in the Commission by Sub - Section. (1) theCommission may modify, vary or revise or set aside any decisions or determinationsmade by the commission.

13. The expenses of the Commission shall be paid out of the moneys provided for the purpose bythe provincial Council Annual Appropriation Statute and Supplementary Estimates.

6AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018

Part II

CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES AND THEIR EMPLOYEES

14. A Co-operative society which for the time being pays out of its funds the salary and otheremoluments of any employee shall be deemed to be the employer of such employee.

15. Any Co-operative society, and any employee of such cociety, shall be subject to such directionsas may be given by the Commission under this Statute and all decisions of the Commission in the dischargeand exercise of its functions and powers under this statute shall be subject to the provisions of Section 12(2)and shall be final.

16. All directions given by the Commission in regard to any employee of any Co-operative society,subject to the provisions of Section 12(2) shall be final and binding upon such emplyee as if such directionswere given by such society.

17. Any direction, order made under Cooperative Employees’ Commission Statute No. 01 of 1994 orany other written law shall be valid and enforce as a direction, order made under this statute.

18. No persons shall be appointed to any post in a Co-operative society in any district in theWestern Province unless that person has been resident within that District for a period of two years at least;

Provided however that where in the opinion of the Commission, no suitable candidate is available inany District for any post in any Co-operative society in the District, the Commission may permit that societyto fill that post by appointing a suitable person from candidates of any other district of the Province.

19. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this statute the Commission may with the concurrenceof the Minister and the approval of the Provincial Public Service Commission and with the consent of therelevant officer may appoint an officer in the Provincial Public Service to any office in the Co-operativesociety. Wherein, this Commission holds the power to approve the relevant service conditions for a maximumof two terms consisting two years per term to an officer of the Provincial Public Service who has been put onsecondment in that manner.

20. Every Co-operative society shall out of its funds pay the salary and other allowances, if any, ofits employees.

21. (1)A Co-operative society shall have the power to transfer any employee of such society fromany one of its work places to any other of its work places, and where such transfer is madefor any reason other than on disciplinary grounds such transfer shall not adversely affectthe emoluments of any such employee.

(2)The commission shall have the power to transfer any employee of a Co-operative society toanother Co-operative society as an employee of the latter society at the joint request of twoemployees holding posts of similar status, provided that the concurrece of the respectiveemployers has been previously obtained.

(3) (a) On a reasonable request made by an employee of Co-operative of a Co-operative societywithin the Western Province to transfer to a Co-operative society of another province,the Commission may provide its recommendation on the consent of two respectiveCo-operative societies to the Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission of therelevant province.

Co-operativesociety to beconsidered asan employer

Co-operativesocieties and theiremployees to besubject to directionof the Commission.

Directions ofCommission tobe binding uponCo-operativesocieties.

Changes that arisessubsequent to thisstatute.

Qualificationsrelating toresiding.

Secondment ofofficers ofProvincial PublicService.

Salary of employeesof Co-operativesocieties.

Transfer ofemployees ofCo-operativesocieties.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.20187A

(b) Subsequent to considering about the consent of both Co-operative societies and otherrequired qualifications regarding a transfer request made by an employee of a Co-operativesociety of another province through the Co-operative Employees Commission of therelevant province, such transfer may be approved.

(4)Above Sections (1), (2), (3) will only be relevant to permanent employees of co-operativesapproved by the Commission.

22. No employee of a Co-operative society shall be suspended dismissed or otherwise punished byany Co-operative society except in accordance with the provisions of this statute or any regulations madethereunder.

23.(1) A co-operative society shall not require any employee to furnish by way of security anamount in excess of such sum as the Commission may prescribe.

(2) Any cash security furnished by any employee of a co-operative society shall be investedin a state bank in the name of the society, and any interest accruing thereon shall be paidto that employee on his retirement or resignation.

24.(1) Every regulation made under this statute by the Commission and approved by the minister,subsequent to its pronouncement by way of a Gazette notification, shall be considered asequally valid as a provision made under this statute and it shall have a legal authority ofits own.

(2) Cooperative societies and their employees shall be bound to accept and follow everyregulation enforced under this statute as a provision made under this statute.

25. Every co-operative society which is an employer and every employee of such society shallcontribute periodically to the Employees Provident Fund and Employee’s Trust Fund such amounts as maybe reuquired by relevant written law.

26. Eventhough service is obtained prior to or later to a date of effect of this statute, all employeesby which society their service was obtained, shall be considered as employees of that society and employedin service therein and be faithful to such society.

Part III

POWERS OF THE COMMISSIONER

27 .(1) The commissioner shall have the power to grade each co-operative society for the purposeof fixing scales of salaries for posts in co-operative societies and to determine th grades orclasses of employees and the number of employees in each such grade or class of anyco-operative society and vary it as he may deem necessary, from time of time.

(2) No co-operative society shall employ any person in contravention of the determinationmade by the commissioner under sub-section (1).

28. The Commission shall with the concurrence of the commissioner deterimine the scales of salaryto be attached to any such post or posts in any class or grade and revise such scales of salaries from timeto time.

SecurityFurnished

Dismissal andpunishment ofemployees ofCo-operativeSocieties

Provident Fundand EmployeesTrust Fund

Co-operativeemployees to beemployees of thesociety and not ofthe commission.

Commissionerto grade societiesand determinestaff.

The commissionto secure theconcurrence ofthe commissionerregarding salaryscales etc.

8AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018

Part IV

MISCELLANEOUS

29. No legal proceeding shall be instituted against any individual member of the Commission or theSecretary of the Commission or an officer of the staff in respect of any act done with bona fide intent oromitted to be done by him or a decision taken by the Commission as per powers of this statute or any actcarried out or not carried out as per such powers.

30.(1) A co-operative society may in the interests of its efficient operation engage the servicesof an expert or any specialist for any defined term, maximum being a period of six months,on a contractual basis with the prior approval of the commission.

(2) A co-operative society may engage casual or daily-paid employees or employees paid ona piece rate basis for a maximum period of six months.

(3) Provided, however, that no permanency of tenure of the office shall be granted to anyemployee recruited under above (1) and (2) without the concurrence of the commission.

(4) In the event of employing a employee by any cooperative society contrary to provisionsof this statute, any emolumets or allowances, if paid to such employee, shall all be recoveredby Commissioner as a surcharge from the relevant parties responsible for such payment.

31.(1) Any co-operative society or any officer or employee thereof –

(a)Which or who contravenes the provisions of this statute ; or

(b)Which or who willfully neglects or refuse or fails to do any act required by theCommission to be done, or to furnish any information, required for the purpose of thisstatute by the Commission or other duly authorized person ; or

(c)Which or who willfully presents a false quarterly report or furnishes false information;

Shall be guilty of an offence under this statute.

(2) The Director Board of a co-operative society or each individual member thereof or anyofficer or employee of a cooperative society, collectively or individually bound to beliable for such an offence.

(3) Every co-operative society or officer which or who commits any offence referred to inabove sub-section (1) shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, beliable to a fine not less than Fifty Thousand Rupees and not exceeding Hundred ThousandRupees or imprisonment of not more than six months or both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) Where any offence under this statute is committed by a co-operative society, everyofficer of that society shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he proves thatthe offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence toprevent the commission of the offence.

(5) On the conviction of any co-operative society or officer or employee for failure to carryout any such instructions or order given by the Commission, such co-operative societyor officer or employee shall be liable –

(a)To a penalty or imprisonment prescribed under above sub-section (3) or both suchpenalty and imprisoment or to pay, in addition to any punishment that may be imposedon such co-operative society under sub-section (3) a fine of Five Thousand Rupeesfor each day on which the failure is continued after the given date of convictionthereof; and

(b)to take action to reinstate in service the said employee in the event of defaultinginstructions made by the Commission ordering reinstating of an employee.

Engagement ofcontractualcasual ordaily paidemployees.

Offences andpenalties.

Immunity ofindividualmembers of thecommission.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.20189A

(6) To pay such employee the remuneration which would have been payable to him if he had been insuch service on each such day and on each day of the period commencing on the date on which he shouldhave been reinstated in service according to the instructions of the Commission and ending on the date ofthe conviction of such co-operative society, computed at the rate of salary or wages to which he would havebeen entitled if his services had not been terminated. Any sum which a co-operative society is liable to paymay be recovered on the order of the court by which it was convicted as if it were a fine imposed on it by thatcourt and the amount so recovered shall be paid to the employee.

32. Every person who, otherwise than in the course of his duty, directly or indirectly by himself orby any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence any decision of theCommission or any member thereof or an officer of the staff of the Commission shall be guilty of an offenceand shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than FiftyThousand Rupees and not exceeding Hundred Thousand Rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and such imprisonment.

33. No member of the Commission, nor the Secretary of the Commission, nor any member of the staffof the Commission, nor any other person shall publish or disclose to any person, otherwise than in theexercise of his official functions, the contents of any document, communication or information whatsoeverwhich has come to his notice in the course of his duties.

34. No person shall in any legal proceeding be permitted or compelled to produce or disclose anycommunication, written or oral, which has taken place between the Commission or any member or officerthereof and any co-operative society or any member of the committee of management of such society orofficer thereof in the exercise of, or in connecion with the exercise of any of the functions of the Commission,unless the Chairman consents in writing to such production or disclosure.

35. The Commission shall not entertain an appeal which relates to an appeal made under theIndustrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950 or in the event of a matter relevant to this is pending in any otherCourt - of- Law.

36. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires:-

"Commissioner" means the commissioner of co-operative Development and Registar of co-operative societies of the Western Province;

"Co-operative society"means a society, association, board registered under the law relating toco-operative societies and functioning within the Western Province and the head office of whichis established within the Western Province;

"District" means Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha Districts within the Western Province;

"Employee" means an employee of a co-operative society within the meaning of this statute;

"Minister" means the Provincial minister to whom the subject or function of co-operativedevelopment has been assigned in the Western Province;

"Officer" means Chairman of a society, association or board or Deputy Chairman, Secretary,Treasurer, or Committee member of a Society, member of Director board or any other persondelegated with power through committee orders or by-laws of the committee to issue directiveson committee affairs;

"Province" means the Western Province.

37. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this statute, theSinhala text shall prevail.

Interferencewith the affairsof theCommission

Unauthorizeddisclosure ofinformationprohibition.

Application ofthe IndustrialDisputes Act toCooperativeSocieties andtheir employees.

Interpretation

Sinhala Text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Communicationof theCommission tobe previledge.

10AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'14PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.11.2018

Schedule 01

OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF CHAIRMAN/ MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION

I ................................................................................................................... having been appointed the Chairman/a member of the Co-operative Employees Commission do swear/ solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will,without fear or favor, affection or ill-will, discharge the function of the office of Chairman/ member of theCo-operative Employees Commission of Western Province and that I will not, directly or indirectly revealany matters relating to such functions to any person otherwise than in the course of duty.

.....................................................

Sworn / Affirmed before me this .......................................... day of 20..............

JUDGE OF THE COURT

Schedule 02

OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF OFFICER OF THE COMMISSION

I ................................................................................................................... having been called upon to exercisethe functions of the Secretary of/an officer of the Co-operative Employees Commission of the WesternProvince do swear / solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will not, directly or indirectly, reveal to any personotherwise than in the course of duty any matter or any part thereof which may come to my knowledge in thecourse of my duties as the Secretary / an officer of the co-operative Employees Commission of WesternProvince.

.....................................................

Sworn / Affirmed before me this .......................................... day of 20..............

CHAIRMANCO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSIONWESTERN PROVINCE

11-1218

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.