==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20161A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1956$27 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'03'03No. 1956/27 - THURSDAY MARCH 03, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & c., by the President

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,President.

PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVE

Establishment of a Special Agency by His Excellency the President in the exercise of powers vested in His Excellencyby Article 33 (2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to advise and assist the Governmentin the formulation and implementation of a National Wage Policy by conducting a carder assessment and reviewing allremuneration structures including the salaries and wages in the Public Sector in order to facilitate due fulfilment of manpowerneeds in the Public Sector and the Private Sector as a whole, aimed at enhancing efficiency and productivity of the PublicSector in duly achieving the aspirations of the people within the framework of good governance.

To :

1.K. L. L. Wijeratne Esquire2.Nimal Bandara Esquire3.Dayananda Vidanagamachchi Esquire4.J. Charitha Rathwaththe Esquire5.Prof. Kithsiri Madapatha Liyanage Esquire6.Leslie Shelton Devendra Esquire7.Suresh Shah Esquire8.Sanath Jayantha Ediriweera Esquire9.V. Regunathan Esquire10.Kamal Mustapha Esquire11.Prof. Gunapala Nanayakkara Esquire12.Nandapala Wickramasuriya Esquire13.Madam Sujatha Cooray14.Gerry Jayawardena Esquire15.S. Thillainadarajah Esquire1A

Seal

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20162A

16.Dr. Anura Ekanayake Esquire17.Sembakuttige Swarnajothi Esquire18.P. K. U. Nilantha Piyaratne Esquire19.N. H. Pathirana Esquire20.H. T. Dayananda Esquire21.T. B. Maduwegedera Esquire22.Dr. Wimal Karandagoda Esquire23.A. Kadiravelupillai Esquire

Greetings :

Whereas, having duly recognized the manpower needs of public and the private sector in the process of achievingthe targets of the Medium Term Economic Development Framework presented by the new Government and to meet theaspirations of the people, the Government proposed to offer a package of incentives to recruit and retain in the publicservice personnel who are competent and capable of handling the task of efficient delivery of services, facilitation of thedevelopment process and carrying out regulatory functions, where necessary.

AND WHEREAS, the Government has recognized the need to make the employees of the entire public sector aswell as the private sector a contented and motivated lot;

AND WHEREAS, it is considered necessary to take note of the structural changes underway in the economy indiverting human resources to different sectors and that the cost of labour is maintained at a competitive level favourable toSri Lanka by raising productivity of the labour force to international competitive levels ;

AND WHEREAS it is recognized that inappropriate competition between the public sector and private sector as awhole as well as amongst various institutions within the public sector be avoided in the fulfillment of manpower needs ofthe country.

AND WHEREAS the Government has recognized the need to gear up the public sector to achieve high levels ofproductivity and efficiency and to help eliminate current drawbacks in the fulfillment of manpower needs of the privatesector.

AND WHEREAS the Government is conscious of the prevailing practices of recruitment and determination ofsalaries and wages and the need to rationalize cadre requirement of public sector institutions consistent with efficient andproductive service delivery.

AND WHEREAS difficulties are being experienced in recruiting and retaining professionals to GovernmentDepartments due to the payment of widely different salaries and remunerations in the Semi- Government sector such asState Corporations and State Banks to those with equal academic, professional qualifications who discharge almost similarresponsibilities in the public service.

AND WHEREAS having recognized the need to put in place suitable special methodologies by the introduction ofsalary scales exclusively for competent individuals specialized in the fields of Management, Science and Technology aswell as for professionals with particular expertise in order to attract them to the Public Sector at present and in the nearfuture to efficiently fulfill the role of the Public Sector in the economic development process, thereby more meaningfullyimplement government economic policy and to introduce necessary changes to conditions of employment.

AND WHEREAS it is considered appropriate to introduce part time or any other suitable employment scheme thatcould enhance productivity and competitiveness by attracting skilled workers who are inclined to serve for shorter periodthat is required in the case of permanent service and create alternative conditions consistent with prevailing unemploymentrates and the aging of the population.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20163A

AND WHEREAS being aware that the recurrent expenditure of the Government is at excessive level and recognizingthe need for the most appropriate methodologies to be adopted within the limits of Government funds to provide non-monetary incentives after review of the various incentives and reward schemes including gratiuties currently being operatedby certain government institutions.

AND WHEREAS realizing the need for the settlement of disputes that have arisen in relation to the existingsalaries and wages, cadre and conditions of service, schemes of recruitment and promotion and Service Minutes.

AND WHEREAS the Government has identified the need to introduce appropriate methodologies guaranteeing asuitable minimum wage, security of employment and provision of essential welfare amenities to the employees based on ascientific analysis of the current socio-economic and public finance situation to ensure the flow of benefits of economicdevelopment to the community as a whole.

AND WHEREAS giving highest priority to all aforesaid the Government is desirous of establishing a Salaries andCadre Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for the purpose of :

a.Reviewing the currently sanctioned staff for each institution in the public sector as a whole including theProvincial Councils and propose an optimal staff for each such institution.

b.Recommending proposals to bring about a fundamental change in the current management systems andthe administrative ethos in the public service in such a way as to facilitate the achievement of set objectivesand evaluation of performance with a view to enhancing productivity of the public service.

c.Formulating innovative schemes to determine and adjust salaries, wages, annual bonus, various otherincentives (such as new productivity, circle allowance etc.) of the public service in keeping with thecurrent accelerated Economic Development Programme which is based on the concept of good governance.

d.Making recommendations for the introduction of a suitable salaries and wages structure for the publicservice including the Provincial Public Service ; Semi-Government service including State Corporation,State Enterprises and Statutory Boards, Central Bank of Sri Lanka and State Banking sector ; ArmedServices ; Universities and Special Institutions for which legislative provisions have been made for thesalaries and emoluments of staff to be charged on the Consolidated Fund ; with focus on matters referredPreamble.

e.Recommending a suitable National Salaries and Wages Policy in order to prevent inappropriate competitionthat may arise in diverting manpower resources to the Public Sector Institution including those referredto at (d) above and the private sector.

f.Initiating such action as is deemed appropriate until such time that a National Salary and Wage Policy isformulated and implemented as mentioned at (e) above ; to minimize the issues identified in relation tosalaries, staff and Service Minutes in giving effect to the Public Administration and Management CircularNo. 30 or salary anomalies occasioned by the salary increases granted and to act as an arbitrator and insuch instances to provide solutions having regard to the National Salaries and Wages Policy to be formulatedin the future.

g.Making recommendations regarding the methodology to be adopted in the payment or revision of pensionsconsequent to salary increases effected in the public sector from time to time.

h.Formulating a methodology and submit recommendations to the Government on the implementation of acontributory pension scheme for employees of the public service.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20164A

AND WHEREAS I am of the view that the execution of the duties and responsibilities the said Commission isentrusted with, as indentified above, should commence immediately in the public service.

Now, therefore, I, Maithripala Sirisena, President, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 33(2) of the Constitutionof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby establish the National Salaries and Cadre Commission toundertake and execute the said duties and responsibilities for a two (02) year period commencing March 3rd, 2016.

And reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do by these presents, appoint you,the said,

To :

1.K. L. L. Wijeratne Esquire2.Nimal Bandara Esquire3.Dayananda Vidanagamachchi Esquire4.J. Charitha Rathwaththe Esquire5.Prof. Kithsiri Madapatha Liyanage Esquire6.Leslie Shelton Devendra Esquire7.Suresh Shah Esquire8.Sanath Jayantha Ediriweera Esquire9.V. Regunathan Esquire10.Kamal Mustapha Esquire11.Prof. Gunapala Nanayakkara Esquire12.Nandapala Wickramasuriya Esquire13.Madam Sujatha Cooray14.Gerry Jayawardena Esquire15.S. Thillainadarajah Esquire16.Dr. Anura Ekanayake Esquire17.Sembakuttige Swarnajothi Esquire18.P. K. U. Nilantha Piyaratne Esquire19.N. H. Pathirana Esquire20.H. T. Dayananda Esquire21.T. B. Maduwegedera Esquire22.Dr. Wimal Karandagoda Esquire23.A. Kadiravelupillai Esquire

as members of the National Salaries and Cadre Commission and direct you to take all such steps as may be deemednecessary to proceed with the implementation of the tasks set out at (a) to (h) above.

And I, further appoint K. L. L. Wijeratne Esquire as the Chairman of the Commission and Asoka Jayasekara Esquireas the Secretary to the Commission.

And I, do hereby authorized the Commission to issue instructions, make inquiries and investigate matters as maybe necessary in relation to the execution of the tasks the said Commission is hereby entrusted with.

And I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Commission may issueinstructions or apply for assistance for information, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and furnishall such information as may properly be complied with, rendered and furnished, in that behalf.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20165A

I do hereby abolish the National Pay Commission established by the Presidential Directive dated 31.10.2013 interms of Article 33 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 3rd day of March, inthe year Two Thousand and Sixteen.

By Order of His Excellency,

P. B. ABEYKOON,Secretary to the President.

12- 811

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.