THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of November 02, 2017

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 08.11.2017)

LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Provincial Councils andLocal Government

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 65AA of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance(Chapter 262) and the legal effect of the section as amended is to cause consistency betweenthe Sinhala and English drafts.

1 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

2—PL 010429— 475 (11/2017)

Short title.

5

10

15

20

25

L.D.—O. 55/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 262)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Local AuthoritiesElections (Amendment) Act, No. of 2017.

2.Section 65AA of the Local Authority ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) is hereby amended as follows:—

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures, “under subsection (3) ofsection 65(3) and such number of members soelected do not include any women members, thenthe provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of thissection shall not apply to such recognized politicalparty or independent group.” of the words andfigures, “under subsection (3) of section 65B andsuch number of members so elected do not includeany women members, then the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4) of this section shall notapply to such recognized political party orindependent group.”;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figures, “and has less than threemembers elected or returned, then the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4) of this section shall notapply to such recognized political party orindependent group.” of the words and figures,“and has less than three members elected or returned,then the provisions of subsections (3) and (4) ofthis section shall not apply to such recognizedpolitical party or independent group.”;

Amendmentof section65AA ofChapter 262.

2 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure, “The apportionment ofwomen members” and “subsection (2) of thissection” respectively, of the words and figure, “Theapportionment of women members” and“subsection (2) of this section”, respectively;

(4)in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words and figure, “the shortfall in the numberof members shall be returned from among thewomen candidates in the first nomination paper orthe additional nomination paper other than thewomen condidates who have been elected or aredisqualified to be a member under section 9.” ofthe words and figure, “the shortfall in the numberof members shall be returned from among thewomen candidates in the first nomination paper orthe additional nomination paper other than thewomen candidates who have been elected or aredisqualified to be a member under section 9.”; and

(5) by the repeal of the marginal note to that section,and the substitution therefor of the following:—

“Apportionment of women members.”.

3.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

3 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)