==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2482$03 - 2026 ud¾;= ui 30 jeks i÷od - 2026.03.30No. 2482/03 - MONDAY, MARCH 30, 2026

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A- G 46519 - 04 (03/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L.D.-B. 7/2023

THE ANTI-CORRUPTION ACT, No. 9 OF 2023

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Justice and National Integration in consultation with the Commission to Investi-gate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption under section 156 read with section 82 and section 92 of the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023.

Harshana Nanayakkara, Minister of Justice and National Integration.Colombo,30th March, 2026.Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Anti-Corruption (Declarations of Assets and Liabilities through the Cen-tralized Electronic System) Regulations 2026.

2. Every person to whom Part II of the Act applies shall declare assets and liabilities,

(a) within three months of the date of appointment (first appointment declaration);

(b) annually in terms of subsection (3) of section 82 of the Act (annual declaration);

(c) within a period of fourteen days immediately after the end of the tenure of his employment or the date of his retirement or the date of dismissal from office as the case may be (end of tenure or retirement declaration);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20262A

(d) in two consecutive years immediately succeeding the year of making the declaration under paragraph (c) (post retirement declaration);

(e) where a significant change in the value of assets and liabilities amounting to ten million rupees or more than ten million rupees occurs, within one month from the date of such occurrence (ad-hoc declaration); and

(f) when nomination papers are submitted for elections, under the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981, the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, the Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988 or the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262), as the case may be,

in the form specified in the Schedule hereto through the Centralized Electronic System provided via the web link https://www.ciaboc.gov.lk/ald.

3. The Anti-Corruption (Declarations of Assets an Liabilities) Regulations 2025 published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2428/43 of March 20, 2025 are hereby rescinded without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder.

4. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-

“Act” means the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023;

“assets and liabilities” shall include, the details of assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and interests directly or beneficially owned in or outside Sri Lanka to be declared in the form specified in the Schedule through the Centralized Electronic System provided via the web link https://www.ciaboc.gov.lk/ald; and

“Centralized Electronic System” means the electronic database maintained by the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption established under section 3of the Act, for the submission and verification of Electronic Declarations.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

3A

SCHEDULE(Regulation 2)

DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

1. Submission of Declarations of Assets and Liabilities under section 82 of the Anti-Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023

Let's Get Started

Before you continue, please select the appropriate declaration type and enter details of your institution and designation. Make sure the information you provide is accurate and reflects your designation as at the date of declaration. If your designation is not listed but you hold a designation under the classes or descriptions specified in subsection (1) of section 80 of the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023, you shall choose “Other” and type such designation manually.

Type of declaration:

Year of declaration:

The class or description:

Institution:

Designation:

Office address:

Office telephone number:

Which language would you prefer for official communication?:

2. Biographic data of the declarant

Personal information

Full name:

Name with initials:

Name with initials in English (if the information is entered in Sinhala or Tamil only):

Date of birth :

Nationality:

National Identity Card Number (NIC):

Passport number:

Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) :

Sri Lanka Unique Digital Identity number (SLUDI):

Personal mobile number:

Fixed telephone number:

Personal Email:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20264A

Permenent address

Country:

Province :

District:

City:

Postal code:

Street name:

Apartment name or house name:

Block number or house number:

Current address

Country:

Province :

District:

City:

Postal code:

Street name:

Apartment name or house name:

Block number or house number:

Employment details of the declarant

Place of work or attached institution :

Designation:

Office telephone number:

Office address:

Residential rights in foreign countries

Do you hold citizenship, permanent residency or a long-term visa (valid for more than two years) in any foreign country?

Country :

Residential status :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

5A

3. Other individuals to be included other than the declarant

Whom shall I include in my declaration under section 81 of the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023?

Assets and liabilities of the following categories of persons (hereinafter referred to as the “covered person”):-• the spouse of the declarant;• each dependent child of the declarant, irrespective of age;• any other person who is dependent on the declarant, irrespective of age; and• any person who cohabits and has shared a common household with the declarant for a continuous period of at least six months prior to the date of declaration, except where such person does not share mutual rights and obligations with the declarant.

Do you have any covered person to be included in this declaration?

How do you want to add your covered person? Enter details of a covered person manually.Import details of a covered person from another declaration in this system.

Personal information of a covered person

Relationship to the declarant :Full name :Name with initials:Name with initials in English (if the information is entered in Sinhala or Tamil only):Date of birth:Nationality:National Identity Card Number (NIC):Passport number:Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN):Sri Lanka Unique Digital Identity number (SLUDI) :Personal mobile number:Fixed telephone number :Personal Email :

Permanent address

Country:Province :District:City:Postal Code:Street name:Apartment name or house name:Block number or house number:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20266A

Current address

Country:Province :District:City:Postal Code:Street name:Apartment name or house name:Block number or house number:

Residential rights in foreign countries

Does this covered person hold citizenship, permanent residency or long-term visa (valid for more than two years) in any foreign country?

Country :Residential status :

4. Income

What shall I declare?

All gross income earned by you and by any covered person during the period of declaration. Generally, types of income include the following:-

• Regular income from employment: Total income earned from your primary and secondary (if any) employments;

• Income from professional services or business;

• Rental income from a house or shop or other property or assets;

• Interest earned on fixed deposits or savings accounts;

• Dividends from shares or unit trusts or other forms of investments;

• Income from lotteries or similar activities;

• Gifts, donations or inheritances received during the period of declaration.

You shall declare this income even if such income was received from a source outside Sri Lanka or if such income is held outside Sri Lanka.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

7A

The regular income received by the declarant or by any covered person during the period of declaration

Did you or any covered person received any regular income during the period of declaration?

Income 1

Person receiving income:Regular income type:Source (from whom the income is received):Type of currency:Total amount of income (with allowance if applied) :Additional information, if any:

The other income received during the period of declaration by the declarant or by any covered person

Did you or any covered person receive any other income during the period of declaration?

Income 1

Person receiving income:Other income type:Source (from whom the income is received):Type of currency:Total amount (with allowance if applied):Additional information, if any:

5. Immovable properties

What shall I declare?

All immovable property owned or possessed (registered or unregistered) by you or by any covered person and all immovable property beneficially held by you or by any covered person, whether located within Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka. Such immovable property in general (but not limited to) include-

• Land – residential, agricultural (including paddy and plantations), commercial, industrial, bare or undeveloped land.

• Buildings and structures – houses, apartments, condominiums, shops, offices, warehouses, factories or any permanent structure attached to land.

• Jointly owned property – property owned jointly with another person, including spouses or third parties, to the extent of your ownership share.

• Beneficially owned property – Property owned by another person where you exercise control or receive benefits.

• Property located outside Sri Lanka – any land or buildings situated abroad.

Important: A property shall be declared even if such property is not in use, not generating income, subject to a mortgage, or involved in a legal dispute.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20268A

Beneficial ownership or benefits include situations where you or any covered person enjoy any economic or control rights over a property even if the legal title is held by another person. Examples include-

• Receiving rental income, profits, or sale proceeds from the property.• Having rights to occupy or use the property (living there, business, or commercial use). • Controlling decisions about the property, such as tenancy, rent, or management.• Holding rights indirectly through trusts, nominees, relatives, or informal arrangements. • Funding or contributing to the property while the title is in another person’s name.

Even without a written agreement, beneficial ownership or benefits exists if you or any covered person enjoy these benefits or control the property in practice.

Immovable properties own or possess by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you have any immovable property to declare where the property owned or possessed (including co-ownership) by you or any covered person?

Immovable property 1

Owned or possessed by:Property type :Has this property been registered? :

Property address

Country:Province:District:City:Postal code:Street name:Apartment name or house name or land name:Block number or house number or assessment number:Building floor area :Land extent :How did you acquire such property :From whom acquired :Do you have co-owners or those having rights?:Name of co-owner or co-owners:Date of the deed:Deed number:Value stated in the deed:Name of notary:Additional information, if any:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

9A

Immovable property in which the declarant or any covered person has beneficial ownership

Do you or any covered person exercise control over or receive benefits from, a property owned by another person or entity?

Person exercising control or receiving benefits:Property type :Property owned by :

Immovable property 1

Property address

Country:Province:District :City:Postal code:Street name:Apartment name or house name or land name:Block number or house number or assessment number:Building floor area:Land extent :Nature of control or benefits received:On what basis the control is exercised or benefits received:Additional information, if any:

6. Vehicles

What shall I declare?

All types of vehicles owned, possessed or beneficially held (registered or unregistered) by you or by any covered person, whether located within Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka. Such vehicles in general (but not limited to) include-

• Vehicles intended for personal or commercial use under the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) and Vehicles Ordinance (Chapter 202).

• All types of water vehicles.

• Vehicles used for sports and related activities.

• Vehicles used for air-transportation (passenger or goods).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202610A

Important: A vehicle shall be declared even if such vehicle is not in use, not generating income, subject to a mortgage, or involved in a legal dispute.

Beneficial ownership or benefits include situations where you or a covered person enjoy any economic or control rights over a vehicle even if the legal title of such vehicle is held by another person. Examples include-

• Receiving rental income, profits, or sale proceeds from such vehicle• Having rights to occupy or use such vehicle (for business, or commercial use) • Controlling decisions about such vehicle, such as rent, or management• Holding rights indirectly through trusts, nominees, relatives, or informal arrangements • Funding or contributing to such vehicle while the title is in another person’s name

Even without a written agreement, beneficial ownership or benefits exist if you or a covered person enjoy these benefits or control such vehicle in practice.

Special note: You are not required to declare vehicles assigned by the government.

Vehicles owned or possessed by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you or any covered person own or possess any type of vehicle?

Vehicle 1

Vehicle owner :Type or description of the vehicle :If there is an absolute owner, the name and address of the absolute owner :Is such vehicle registered or not:Registration number :Country in which the vehicle is registered :Chassis number or vehicle identification number:Make:Model :Year of manufacture:Date acquired:Acquisition value:Additional information, if any:

Vehicles in which the declarant or any covered person has beneficial ownership

Do you or any covered person use, control or otherwise benefit from a vehicle (excluding government-assigned vehicles) own by another person or entity?

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

11A

Vehicle 1

Person using, controlling or receiving benefits from the vehicle:Type or description of the vehicle:If there is an absolute owner, the name and address of the absolute owner:Is vehicle registered or not:Registration number:Country in which the vehicle is registered:Chassis number or vehicle identification number:Make:Model :Year of manufacture:Vehicle owner:Vehicle's insurance policy holder:Nature of control or benefits received:On what basis the control is exercised or benefits received:Since when you are controlling or receiving:benefits from the vehicle:Additional information, if any:

7. Jewellery and other valuable assets

What shall I declare?

All types of jewellery and other valuable assets (where the value of a single jewellery and other valuable asset or collection of jewellery and other valuable assets exceeds one million rupees) owned, possessed or beneficially held (registered or unregistered) by you or by any covered person, whether located within Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka. Such jewellery and other valuable asset, in general (but not limited to), include-

• Wearable jewellery (gold, silver, platinum or other precious material), watches, etc.

• Un crafted gold, silver, platinum or other precious material, made for investment purposes

• Gems, diamond and other precious earth material (whether cut or in raw form)

• Collectable items such as stamps, coins, etc.

• Antiques, works of art, etc.

Important: Jewellery and other valuable assets shall be declared even if such jewellery and other valuable assets are not in use, not generating income, subject to a mortgage, or involved in a legal dispute.

Beneficial ownership or benefits include situations where you or a covered person enjoy any economic or control rights over a jewellery or other valuable asset even if the legal title is held by another person. Examples include -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202612A

• Jewellery or other valuable assets regularly worn or kept by you or any covered person but registered or purchased in a relative’s name.

• Any jewellery or other valuable asset provided by a company, trust, or family member for personal use.

• Jewellery or other valuable assets held by another person for safekeeping, but effectively treated as yours.

• Jewellery or other valuable assets acquired from your or any covered person`s funds but recorded in someone else’s name.

Even without a written agreement, beneficial ownership or benefit exists if you or a covered person enjoy these benefits or control such jewellery or other valuable asset in practice.

Jewellery or other valuable assets owned or possessed by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you or any covered person own or possess any jewellery or other valuable asset?

Jewellery or other valuable asset 1

Owned or possessed by:Jewellery or other valuable asset type or category:Description of jewellery or other valuable asset:Do you have co-owners or those having rights?:Names of co-owners or those having rights:How the jewellery or other valuable asset was acquired:When the jewellery or other valuable asset was acquired:Additional information, if any:

Jewellery or other valuable assets in which declarant or any covered person has a beneficial ownership

Do you or any covered person use, control, or otherwise derive any benefit from jewellery or other valuable assets belonging to another person or entity?

Jewellery or other valuable asset 1

Person who uses, controls or derives benefits:Type of jewellery or other valuable asset:Description of the jewellery or other valuable asset:Owner of the jewellery or other valuable asset:Nature of the benefits:On what basis the benefits received:Since when you are receiving the benefits:Additional information, if any:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

13A

8. Commercialisable intangible assets such as patents, copyrights, etc

What shall I declare?

Intangible assets include: intellectual property rights (rights to invention, useful model, know-how, industrial design or plant’s variety, trademark or trade name, copyrights, etc.), right to use subsoil and other natural resources or other (specify).

Beneficial ownership or benefit includes situations where you enjoy or any covered person enjoys any economic or control right over an intangible asset even if the legal title is held by another person.

Commercialisable intangible assets (patents, copyrights, etc) legally owned or recorded in the names of the declarant or any covered person

Do you or any covered person hold legal ownership of any commercialisable intangible asset or is such commercialisale intangible asset recorded in your name or in the name of any covered person?

Commercialisable intangible asset 1

Owned or possessed by:Type of such asset:Has such asset been registered?:Has such asset been commercialized and generating revenue?:Date acquired :Manner in which such asset was acquired :Do you have co-owners or those having rights?:Names of the co-owners or those having rights:Additional information, if any:

Commercialisable intangible assets (patents, copyrights, etc) in which the declarant or any covered person has beneficial ownership

Do you or any covered person derive any benefit from any commercialisable intangible asset that are legally owned by another person or entity or registered in their name’s?

Commercialisable intangible asset 1

Person who received benefits:Type of such asset:Has such asset been registered?:Has such asset been commercialized and generating revenue?:Name of the lawful owner of such assets from which benefits are derived or the name of the person in whose name such asset are registered:

Nature of the benefits:On what basis the benefits received:Since when are you receiving the benefits:Additional information, if any:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202614A

9. Monetary Assets

What shall I declare?

All monetary assets, held under your name or under the name of any covered person or receiving beneficial ownership from such monetary assets. The types of monetary assets under this category include-

• Cash: Cash in hand or in safe deposits in Sri Lanka rupees or other currency

• Deposits: Deposits made in accounts regardless of the type of deposit (i.e. savings, current, term deposit accounts, etc.)

• Retirement and provident funds: Any provident, superannuation, or retirement saving plan (other than central Employees' Provident Fund (EPF), Employees Trust Fund (ETF), or a mandatory provident fund or pension scheme based on your employment), annuity, or retirement insurance schemes, etc.

• Loans given or receivable: (one million rupees and above): Such as personal loans advanced to individuals, business or commercial loans given, outstanding receivables, promissory notes or similar instruments, etc. if you or a covered person is the receiver, creditor or the receiver of benefits either directly or indirectly.

Cash in hand held by the declarant or any covered person

Do you or any covered person have any cash in hand?

Cash in hand 1

Owned or possessed by:

Type of currency :

Balance as at the date of declaration:

Accounts and deposits held by the declarant or any covered person with banks and financial institutions operating in Sri Lanka

Do you or any covered person hold any account or deposit in banks or financial institutions operating in Sri Lanka?

Account or deposit 1

Account or deposit owner :Bank or finance institution:Account type:Account number or reference of the deposit :Is this a joint account or deposit? :Joint account or deposit information:Type of currency:Balance as at the date of declaration :Additional information, if any:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

15A

Deposits held by the declarant or by any covered person in other entities (including foreign entities) or with individuals

Do you or any covered person hold any deposit in other entities (including foreign entities) or with individuals?

Deposit 1

Deposit owner:Entity or person holding the deposit:Nature of the deposit:Account number or reference of the deposit:Do you have co-ownership?:Co-ownership information :Share of co-ownership:Type of currency :Date of commencement:Balance as at the date of declaration:Additional information, if any:

Virtual and digital currency held by the declarant or any covered person

Do you or any covered person have any virtual or digital currency?

Virtual and digital currency 1

Currency owner:Virtual or digital currency type:Platform wallet where such currency is held:How such currency was acquired:Quantity as at the date of declaration:Additional information, if any:

Loans given by the declarant or by any covered person

Have you or any covered person provided any amount as a loan to another individual or entity?

Loan 1

Loan given by (lender):To whom the loan is given (borrower):Security against the loan given :Amount of the loan given :Interest rate of loan:Balance as at the date of declaration:Additional information, if any:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202616A

10. Trust

What shall I declare?

• Property held by any person or entity on behalf of the declarant or the covered person.• Property held by the declarant or any covered person on behalf of another person or entity. Such property includes-

• Immovable property and movable assets• Company shares, money, tangible or digital currencies etc.

Property held in trust by any person or entity on behalf of the declarant or a covered person.

Does any person or entity hold any property in trust on behalf of the declarant or a covered person?

Property held in trust 1

On whose behalf is such property held in trust:Which property is being held in trust:Details of such property :Date on which such property was placed in trust:The individual or entity who holds such property:Who benefits from such property:Additional information, if any:

Property held in trust by the declarant or by any covered person on behalf of another person or entity.

Do you or any covered person hold any property in trust on behalf of any other person or entity?

Property held in trust 1

Person holding the property in trust :Which property is being held in trust:Details of such property:Date on which such property was placed in trust:On whose behalf is such property held in trust:Who benefits from such property:Additional information, if any:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

17A

11. Financial investment assets and corporate interests

What shall I declare?

Any financial investment asset and corporate interests held under your name or any covered person’s name during the period of declaration. Generally, types of assets in this category include the following:-

• Shares: All equity and debt securities, whether listed or unlisted, including but not limited to shares in public or private companies, preference shares, debentures, corporate bonds, treasury bills and treasury bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs), unit trusts and mutual funds, etc.

• Insurance policies with cash value: Life insurance policies, endowment policies, investment-linked insurance plans, etc.

• Directorships and interests: if you or any covered person is a director, partner, trustee or an office bearer of a company or a business; or

if you have an interest held on your behalf by any covered person, nominee, trustee or any other person and you benefit financially or could influence the decisions of the company, even if your name is not shown in its official records; or

if any covered person has an interest held on his behalf by any nominee, trustee or any other person and such covered person benefit financially or could influence the decisions of the company, even if their name is not shown in its official records.

You shall declare these financial investment assets and corporate interests even if:

• The company is inactive or not making a profit• You did not receive any income during the period • The financial investment assets and corporate interests held outside Sri Lanka

The declaration shall include all financial investment assets and corporate interests owned or beneficially held by you or by a covered person, whether held solely or jointly, receiving any benefits, having any legal or beneficial interest, within or outside Sri Lanka.

Investments in public listed stocks and shares held by the declarant or by any covered person (local or international)

Do you or any covered person have investments in publicly listed stocks or shares?

Investments in public listed stocks and shares 1

Investor or purchaser:Stock exchange:Central Depositary System (CDS) trading account number or identifier :Ticker symbol:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202618A

Issuer or company :Issuer countryInternational Securities Identification Number (ISIN):Number of shares as at the date of the declaration:Additional information, if any:

Investments in private or unlisted shares own by the declarant or by any covered person (local or international)

Do you or any covered person have investments in private or unlisted shares?

Investments in private or unlisted shares 1

Investor :Issuer or company:Issuer's business registration number:Percentage of shares as at the date of declaration:Type of interest :Year of investment:Nature of investment:Amount invested :Additional information, if any:

Investments in insurance schemes or plans made by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you or any covered person have investments in insurance schemes or plans?

Investments in insurance scheme or plan 1

Policy holderInsurance company or issuerPolicy numberPolicy typeBeneficiaryCommencement datePremium amount (annual)Maturity valueMaturity yearAdditional information, if any

Any other types of investments held by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you or any covered person hold any other types of investments?

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

19A

Any other types of investment 1

Investor:Year of investment:Type of investment:Amount invested:Beneficiary:Value of the benefits:Additional information, if any:

Cooperate interests held by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you or any covered person have corporate interests?

Cooperate interest 1

Person having cooperate interest:Company or entity name:Entity type:Registration number:Nature of cooperate interest or position held:Ownership percentage:From when :Additional information, if any:

12. Expenses

What shall I declare?

All major expenses incurred by you or by any covered person during the declaration period, whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, where the value of an individual expense or the total expenses under each expenditure category fall between one million rupees and ten million rupees.

(If a significant change of ten million rupees or more in the value of expenditure has occurred and you have submitted an ad-hoc declaration within one month from the date of such expenditure, it need not be included here. However, if such expenditure has not been declared through an ad-hoc declaration, the relevant details shall be provided here.)

Such expenses include-• Contributions made to a provident fund, insurance payment (including life insurance) or a pension scheme.• Ceremonial expenses: Wedding, funeral, or other significant ceremonial expenses. • Travelling expenses: Expenses incurred for travelling locally or overseas.• Donations to religious or charitable or other types of institutions.Important: You are not required to declare routine bills and daily expenses.

You shall declare these expenses even if such expenses incurred outside Sri Lanka.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202620A

Major expenses incurred during the period of declaration (where the value of an individual expense or total per expenditure category is between one million rupees and ten million rupees)

Do you or any covered person incur any major expense where the value of an individual expense or the total expenses under each expenditure category fall between one million rupees and ten million rupees during the period of declaration?

Expense 1

Person incurring expense:Expenditure category:Description:Type of currency:Amount:Additional information, if any:

13. Liabilities

What shall I declare?Any significant financial liabilities that you or any covered person are required to repay, whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, as at the date of declaration. This includes formal loans, informal borrowings, and other legal or financial obligations. Your declaration in general shall include the following:-

• Formal liabilities: Loans and facilities obtained from approved or recognized financial institutions such as bank loans (housing, vehicle, personal, or education loans), mortgages or loans secured on property, credit cards, overdrafts, or other approved credit facilities.

• Informal liabilities: Borrowings facilities obtained from individuals or entities such as loans from family members or friends, money borrowed from an individual, informal business borrowings where you are personally responsible.

• Other liabilities (legal or special obligations): Financial obligations that do not fall under loans, but which you are legally required to pay such as guarantees or sureties given for another person’s or company’s loan, court-ordered payments or compensation, outstanding tax or statutory dues, business-related obligations where you are personally liable.

Important: You shall declare liabilities even if repayment has not yet started, regardless whether liabilities are held in Sri Lanka or abroad.

You are not required to declare routine bills and daily expenses.

If you are unsure whether a particular liability shall be declared, include it and provide a brief description.

Loans and credit facilities obtained by the declarant or by any covered person from banks and financial institutions operating in Sri Lanka

Have you or any covered person obtained any loan or credit facility from banks and financial institutions operating in Sri Lanka?

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2026

21A

Loan and credit facility 1

Borrower:Loan or facility type:Lender name:Amount owing as at the date of declaration:Type of currency:Security offered :Rate of interest:Additional information, if any:

Loans and credit facilities obtained by the declarant or by any covered person from any individual or other types of lenders (including foreign lenders)

Have you or any covered person obtained loans or credit facilities from any individual or other types of lenders ( including foreign lenders)?

Loan and credit facility 1

Borrower:Loan or facility type:Lender name:Loan start year :Loan amount:Type of currency:Remaining balance:Loan type:Does the balance require re-payment?:Additional information, if any:

Any other types of liabilities held by the declarant or by any covered person

Do you or any covered person have any other types of liabilities?

Liability 1

Person having the liabilityLiability typeDescription of liabilityDue dateLiability amountType of currencyAdditional information, if any

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.202622A

OATH/AFFIRMATION

I do hereby solemnly, sincerely, and truly declare and affirm/ swear that the answers given and the statements made by me herein are true and accurate, and this declaration of assets and liabilities is made truthfully, without any pressure or coercion from any party. I am fully aware of the legal consequences of the discovery of any un-declared assets and/or false declarations.

☐ I hereby declare that I have read and understood the above oath or affirmation.

Full Name Date

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA..

EOG 03-0220/1