==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2466$27 - 2025 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025.12.11No. 2466/27 - THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A- PG 7400 - 04 (12/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L. D. -B. 3/2021(III)

COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION ACT, No. 11 OF 2021

RULES made by the Colombo Port City Economic Commission under section 72 of the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Act, No. 11 of 2021, read with subsection (4) of section 3, paragraph (u) of section 6 and subsection (4) of section 10 of the aforesaid Act.

Revan Wickramasuriya, Director-General of the Colombo Port City Economic Commission.

Colombo, 11th December, 2025.

Rules

1. These rules may be cited as the Colombo Port City Community Rules, No. 01 of 2025

2. These rules shall apply in relation to the owners or occupiers of condominium parcels or premises situated within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'11Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.12.20252A

3. Every owner or occupier of condominium parcels or premises shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any licence such owner or occupier holds with respect to the use and occupation of such condominium parcel or premises.

4. Every owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premises shall ensure that such condominium parcel or premises is used strictly for its permitted use as specified in the Colombo Port City (Development Control Regulations) No. 1 of 2023 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2334/47 of June 2, 2023.

5. Every owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premises shall ensure that such owner's or occupier's activities, including business activities are, at all times, conducted or carried out with reasonable care and diligence.

6. Every owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premises shall- (a) endeavours to maintain such condominium parcel or premises and any property standing thereon in a safe and secure condition at all times; and

(b) comply with the directions issued by the Estate Manager in relation to public health and safety, fire safety and such other matters relating to common user facilities.

7. (1) The common areas shall be for the use of all owners or occupiers of condominium parcels or premises.

(2) The common areas shall be shared facilities, and no owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premise shall exclude another person from using such common areas.

(3) Any owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premises shall not damage or deface any structure that forms part of the common areas.

8. (1) Every owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premises shall adhere to the speed limits stated on the roads within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City.

(2) Any owner or occupier of any condominium parcel or premises shall not operate any vehicle in any manner which is dangerous, noisy, or which creates nuisance to any other person.

9. (1) Every owner or occupier of condominium parcel or premises shall park his vehicle only in the areas authorised or designated for parking purposes.

(2) Any vehicle found parked in any unauthorised or non-designated area shall be subject to immediate removal by the Commission or Estate Manager at the risk and expense of the owner of the vehicle.

(3) Any vehicle parked within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City shall be solely at the risk and liability of the owner of such vehicle, and the Commission or the Estate Manager shall not have any liability whatsoever for any vehicle parked within the Area of Authority of the Colombo Port City or any article, thing or property kept in such vehicle.

10. In these rules-

"Act" means the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Act, No. 11 of 2021;

"Commission" means the Colombo Port City Economic Commission established under the Act;

"common areas" shall have the same meaning as in the Act;

"community rules"shall have the same meaning as in the Act; and

"Estate Manager" means the company incorporated and designated in terms of the provisions of section 59 of the Act.

EOG 12 - 0062

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.