==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - G 46216 - 04 (02/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙˤෂ

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, HIGHER EDUCATION AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION

Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of Graduates in the Public Service to the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service for Sinhala, Tamil and English medium Teacher Vacancies in National and Provincial Schools of the Island - 2023 (2026)

APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from both qualified male and female parties for the recruitment of the graduates in public service to the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service for Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium Teacher Vacancies in National and Provincial Schools of the Island. The respective application has been published under “Online Applications – Recruitment Exams/ E.B. Exams” under “Our Service” in the website www.doenets.lk of the Department of Examinations and the applications can be submitted only through online method. Accepting online applications will open at 9.00 a.m on 05th February 2026 and close at 9.00 p.m on 19th February 2026.

Note 1

The officers should submit a copy of the application to the Head of Institution for including it in the personal file of the respective officer, and at the time calling for the interview, a copy of the application certified by the Head of Institution and a letter of substantiating the service should be submitted.

The applicant himself should bear any adverse aftermath that may occur caused by delaying the applications until the closing date.

අංංක 2474$18 - 2026 පෙෙබරවාාරි මස 02 වැැනි සඳුදාා - 2026'02'02No. 2474/18 - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 02, 2026

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20262A

Note 2

If you are a person who has applied under the online method as at 10.02.2023 according to the Gazette No. 2317 dated 27.01.2023 titled “Competitive Examination for the recruitment of Graduates in the Public Service to the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service for Sinhala, Tamil and English medium Teacher Vacancies in National and Provincial Schools of the Island - 2023”, you are not required to apply again since the application you submitted at the said juncture will be considered as an application submitted in accordance with this Gazette, and you are required to proceed paying attention to the Notes and Remarks in this Gazette Notification.

N.B - As per Note 2 above, if you have applied under the online method as at 10.02.2023 and however not presently employed in the public service, your application will not be considered in accordance with this Gazette Notification.

02. Method of Recruitment:

2.1 A written examination will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations as per the section 10.1 of this gazette notification.

2.2 Two (02) times of existing number of vacancies from those who have obtained a minimum of 40 marks for each question paper will be called for the general interview; as per the section 10.2 of this gazette notification, based on the merit order of the total marks scored in the written Examination. The list of applicants qualified for the general interview will be published on the official website of the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education (The applicants who have not fulfilled the qualifications will be rejected at the general interview)

2.3 The applicants who get qualified at the General Interview will be subjected to a Practical Test in terms of Section 10.3 of this notification. The marks obtained at the practical test will directly be sent to the Department of Examinations by the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education / respective Provincial Public Service Commissions. The relevant vacancy list will be exhibited to the applicants at the time of Practical Test, and the applicants should indicate the order of their preference for the list of schools with vacancies.

2.4 Recruitments will be made on school based system according to the number of vacancies, the language medium, subject and the type of school upon the priority order of total marks obtained by the applicant at the Practical Test.

2.5 The list of vacancies in subjects of appointment related to this gazette notification is given in Schedule 05. The recruitments will be done only for the teacher vacancies indicated in the schedule.

Note 3

In an event where several applicants requesting the same school have obtained equal marks, placement to the schools will be decided by the Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education/ relevant Provincial Public Service Commission.

2.6 As the applicants are recruited for these vacancies on school based system, the transfers will not be given under any circumstances until the completion of a period of five (05) years.

2.7 In this recruitment, the applicants will be recruited separately as National Schools and Provincial Schools.

2.8 You can apply for all two (02) school types as National Schools and Provincial Schools or for one of the school types according to your preference. That should be clearly mentioned in the application.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

3A

2.9 The examination results of the applicants who express their preference for National Schools / Provincial Schools and only for Provincial Schools will be forwarded to the respective provinces according to their province of permanent residence they indicated in the application. The province registered in the electoral register in the year 2022 is considered as the province of permanent residence. (The results of applicants applying only for national schools will not be forwarded to provinces)

2.10 The following particulars are applied to each applicant

2.10.1 The applicants applying for national/provincial schools may apply for an additional province; in additional to the province of permanent residence, in order to be considered in the event of the non-existence of vacancies related to the subject and language medium applied for according to the national / provincial school they apply for. Accordingly, the said additional province should be clearly mentioned in the application.

2.10.2 The additional province so applied for will be considered only in case of no vacancies in national / provincial schools for the subject and language medium applied for.

2.10.3 The opportunity will be given to these applicants, only if there are further vacancies subsequent to making recruitments from the applicants who are permanent residents of the province for the teacher vacancies existing in the additional province.

N.B :- The applicants; who are not permanent residents in Eastern Province, can apply only for the subjects of Science, Mathematics, English, Information Technology, Technology Stream and Counseling in Eastern Province.

03. Conditions of Employing in Service:

3.1. This post is permanent and pensionable.

3.2 The officers appointed to this post will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years and shall pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination within that period of (03) year.

3.3 You shall acquire the proficiency in the official language relevant to this appointment in accordance with Public Administration Circular 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and the circulars incidental thereto.

3.4 This appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka published in the Extra-Ordinary Gazette No. 2310/29 dated 14.12.2022, Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the government and other Departmental orders.

3.5 This appointment will be subject to the provisions stipulated in the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1885/38 dated 23.10.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and the amendments made hereafter to the said Service Minute and the appointments in the Public Service.

04. Salary Scale: This post is entitled for a salary scale of Rs. 53,060-800x6-940x7-1080x2 (Rs. 66,600/- per month) in GE 01-2025 as per the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025. The Grade I(A) of Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service will be placed at the salary scale of Rs. 64,440/-, which is the 14th salary step of this salary scale. Besides, you are entitled for the other allowances paid by the Government to the public officers from time to time.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20264A

05. Educational and Other Qualifications:

5.1 As per the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service published in the Extraordinary Gazette No.1885/38 dated 23.10.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the applicants should have fulfilled the following qualifications as at 10.02. 2023.

5.1.1 The qualifications mentioned in Note 4 should have been completed with a Degree obtained from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or from a degree awarding institution recognized by the University Grants Commission.

5.1.2 The applications should be made for the respective teacher vacancies only according to the main subject/subjects studied for the degree. Applicants must have completed 1/3 of the total subject contents (from no. of credits) in their degree related to the subject applied for.. Very important:- In addition to the conditions 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 above, the following particulars should be taken in to consideration when completing the applications.

• The applicants should be aware of the subjects they can apply for according to their degree.

• Subject contents of the degree in relation to G.C.E (A/L) and G.C.E (O/L) syllabus will be considered during the eligibility verification.

• In case of the absence of degrees having a major subject related to the subject applied for, the additional qualifications will be considered along with the degree obtained.

• If the transcript of the degree does not mention the subject contents (number of credits), it should be verified by the respective university and the relevant documents should be submitted to the general interview.

• Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education / Provincial Public Service Commission reserves the final decision on the issues regarding the subject contents of the degree.

• When the existing teacher vacancies in the school system are filled, the filling up of teacher vacancies will be considered in two (2) stages. Consequently, one applicant can apply for two subjects from the category of G.C.E (A/L) and 13-Year Guaranteed Education Program, and two subjects from the category of G.C.E (O/L) and other subjects.

• The priority will be given for the recruitment for the subjects in the category of G.C.E (A/L) and 13-Year Guaranteed Education Program.

N.B - The Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education will decide the subjects to be given priority when calling for interviews so that the desired objectives of the national policies related to the educational reforms can be achieved.

5.1.3 As per the provisions of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service, each applicant must have passed Sinhala or Tamil as a subject in the G.C.E (O/L) examination. Those who have passed other examinations recognized by the Commissioner General of Examinations as similar to G.C.E (O/L) examination can also apply for this.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

5A

Note 4

The qualifications specified below in respect of each subject will be considered as minimum qualifications :

1. Subjects under the G.C.E (A/L) and 13-Year Guaranteed Education Program

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

101Chemistry

Should have followed 1/3 of the total subject contents in accordance with the G.C.E (A/L) syllabus as a major subject or other subject in a four-year special degree ; or

Should have completed at least 1/3 of the total subject contents in the relevant subject in a three-year degree.

102Physics

Should have followed 1/3 of the total subject contents in accordance with the G.C.E (A/L) syllabus as a major subject or other subject in a four-year special degree; or

Should have completed at least 1/3 of the total subject contents in the relevant subject in a three-year degree.

103Biology

Should have studied Botany/Plant Biology or Zoology as the main subject in a four year special degree, and Zoology as the other subject when the main subject is Botany/Plant Biology, and Botany/Plant Biology as the other subject when Zoology is the main subject at least in two years in accordance with the G.C.E (A/L) syllabus; or

Should have followed both Botany/Plant Biology and Zoology in a three-year general degree per at least 1/3 of the total subject contents in accordance with G.C.E (A/L) syllabus.

104Agricultural Science

(B.Sc. Agricultural Technology and Management) (B.Sc. Agriculture)(B.Sc. Agricultural Resources Management and Technology) (B.Sc. Agri Business Management)(B.Sc. Export Agriculture)

Degrees stated above or any Bachelor of Science degree covering 1/3 of the total subject contents as per G.C.E (A/L) Agriculture Syllabus.

105Combined Mathematics

Should have followed Applied Mathematics or Pure Mathematics as the main subject in a four-year special degree and should have studied Applied Mathematics as the other subject when Applied Mathematics is the main subject; or

Applied Mathematics as the other subject when Pure Mathematics is the main subject for at least two years or the combination of Applied Mathematics and Pure Mathematics should consist at least 1/3 of the total subject contents.

106Engineering Technology

Should have completed the degree with 1/3 of the total subjects contents of the degree covering the subject areas of Construction, Mechanical, Electrical or Electronics; or

Degree in Engineering (Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and/or Electronics).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20266A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

107Bio Systems Technology

(B.Sc. Agricultural Technology and Management) (B.Sc. Agriculture) (B.Sc. Agricultural Resources Management and Technology) (Bachelor of Bio-systems Technology)Above-named degrees; or Any Bachelor of Science degree covering 1/3 of the total subject contents according to G.C.E (A/L) Bio-systems Technology Syllabus.

108Science for Technology

Should have studied a degree in which 1/3 of the total subject contents of the Bachelor of Science include Physics.

109Information & Communication Technology

Special Degree in Information and Communication Technology; or

A degree with Information and Communication Technology as a major subject. 1/3 of the total subject contents of the degree should include the subject of Information and Communication Technology.

110Accounting

Special Degree in Accounting; orAny degree with Accounting as major subject.

111Business StudiesAny degree in which a subject related to Business Studies or Business Management is a main subject.

112Business Statistics

Any other degree in which Business Statistics is a major subject or includes Statistics as a subject.

113Logic and Scientific Method

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Logic and Scientific Method; or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in Philosophy orAny Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Logic and Scientific Method as main subject.

114Economics

Special Degree in Economics ; orAny other degree with Economics as main subject.

115Geography

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in Geography; or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Geography as the major subject.

116Political Science

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Political Science ; or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Political Science as the main subject.

117Home Economics

Should have followed a Degree in Home Economics ; or

A Diploma in Home Science in a minimum level of NVQ 4 or above with a course duration of 2 years or more with any degree; or

A or B pass from Home Economics for G.C.E A/L with any degree.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

7A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

118 History of Sri Lanka (Indian/ Europe /Contemporary)

Bachelor of Arts (Special) in History ; or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with History as a major subject

119Communication & Media Studies

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Communication and Media; or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Communication and Media Studies a major subject.

120Buddhist Civilization

A Degree from a recognized University with one from the subjects; Buddhist Civilization, Buddhist Culture, Buddhist Studies, Buddhist Philosophy and Pali

121Christian Civilization

General or Special Degree having the subject of Christian Civilization, Christianity

122 Hindu CivilizationGeneral or Special Degree having the subject of Hindu Civilization, Hinduism

123Islamic CivilizationGeneral or Special Degree having the subject of Islamic Civilization, Islam

124BuddhismA Degree from a recognized University with one from the subjects; Buddhist Civilization, Buddhist Culture, Buddhist Studies, Buddhist Philosophy and Pali

125HinduismGeneral or Special Degree having the subject of Hindu Civilization, Hinduism

126ChristianityGeneral or Special Degree having the subject of Christian Civilization, Christianity

127IslamGeneral or Special Degree having the subject of Islamic Civilization, Islam

128Art

Bachelor of Visual Arts (Special) Degree with the subject of Art /Sculpture or

Bachelor of Fine Arts(Special) Degree with the subject of Art /Sculpture or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant discipline or

A degree in the relevant subject obtained from a foreign university approved by the University Grants Commission

129Dancing (Traditional)

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant discipline or a Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission (Subject to passing the practical test of oriental dance skills conducted by the Appointing Authority)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20268A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

130Dancing (Bharatha)

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant subject or a Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission

131Oriental Music

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant subject or a Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission

132Carnatic Music

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant subject or a Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission

133Western Music

Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A degree in the relevant subject from a foreign university approved by the University Grants Commission

134Drama & Theatre

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant subject or a Bachelor of Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission

135Sinhala

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Sinhala or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Sinhala as the main subject

136Tamil

Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in Tamil or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Tamil as the main subject

137English

Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in English or Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with English as the main subject

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

9A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

138Arabic

A degree in foreign languages with the relevant subject as a major subject or a special degree in the relevant subject

139French

140Chinese

141Japanese

142German

143Russian

144Malay

145Hindi

146Korean

201Child Psychology and Care

A degree with Child Psychology as a subject or a degree with Child Psychology and Protection as a main subject.

202Health and Social Care

Bachelor of Science (Health Promotion) Degree or A degree with Health and Social Care as a major subject

203Physical Education and Sport

Bachelor of Science (Special) in Physical Education or

Bachelor of Science in Sports Science and Management or

A Bachelor's Degree with Physical Education and Sports as a main subject

204Performing Arts

Special Degree in Performing Arts or

Bachelor of Arts – Special (Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Dancing/Music) Degree or

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Drama and Performing Arts or

Bachelor of Education (Drama and Performing Arts) or

A Special Degree with Performing Arts or Fine Arts as a major subject

205Event Management

Management Degree in Hospitality, Tourism and Event Management or A Degree with Event Management as a major subject

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202610A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

206Arts and Crafts

Special Degree in Visual Arts (Painting, Sculpture, Printmaking, Textile and Textile Related Arts etc.) or

Special Degree in Visual Arts and Design (Arts and Graphics) or

Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree (Art and Craft / Graphic/ Sculpture/ Visual and Technological Arts or one subject as a main subject)

207Interior Designing

Bachelor of Science in Architecture or Bachelor of Design or Degree in Architecture from a recognized University or

A Bachelor's degree with Interior Design as a major subject

208Fashion Designing

Special Degree in Visual Arts (Textile & Wearable Arts) or Bachelor of Design or

Degree in Fashion Design and Product Promotion or A Degree with Fashion Designing as a major subject

209Graphic Designing

Bachelor of Design or Bachelor of Visual Arts and Design (Art and Graphic) or Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering or Bachelor of Science in Computer Science or Bachelor of Science in Information and Communication Technology or

Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology or A degree with Information and Communication Technology as a major subject in the degree or

Bachelor of Science with the subject of Computer Science or (Should have passed the subject parts with Graphic Design with 1/3 of the total subject contents of the above degree course.)

Degree with Graphic Design as a major subject

210Landscaping

Should have studied Horticulture / Landscaping as a subject in a degree in Agriculture or

Any Bachelor of Science Degree with Landscaping as a main subject.

211Applied Horticultural Studies

Should have studied Horticulture / Landscaping as a subject in a degree in Agriculture or

Any Bachelor of Science Degree with Applied Horticultural Studies as a main subject.

212Livestock Product Studies

Degree in Agriculture with specialization in Zoology/ Livestock Production Technology or Degree in Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Science or any Bachelor of Science Degree with Animal Production and Food Technology/ Livestock Production Technology as major subject.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

11A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

213Food Processing Studies

Bachelor of Food Science and Technology or

Bachelor of Food Science and Nutrition or

A Degree in Agriculture with specialization in Food Science/ Food Production Technology or

Any Bachelor of Science Degree with Food Production Technology or Food Processing Technology as a major subject

214Aquatic Resource Studies

Bachelor of Science in Aquatic Resource Management and Zoology or

Should have studied Zoology/ Livestock Production Technology/ Aquatic Resources Technology as a subject in a degree in Agriculture or

Bachelor of Science in Animal Husbandry and Fisheries or

Bachelor of Science in Fisheries and Marine Science or

Any Bachelor of Science Degree with Aquatic Resources Technology as a major subject.

215Plantation Product Studies

Degree in Export Agriculture or

Should have studied Plantation / Plantation Product Technology as a subject in a Degree in Agriculture or

Any Bachelor of Science Degree with Plantation Product Technology as a subject.

216Construction Studies

Bachelor of Engineering in Civil Engineering or

Bachelor of Engineering Technology including Construction and Building Services Technology or

Bachelor of Technology or

Any other degree with construction technology as major subject or

A Diploma in Construction Studies in a minimum level of NVQ 4 or above with a course duration of 2 years or more with any degree.

217Automobile Studies

Bachelor of Technology (Automobile) or

Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Automobile) or

A Degree with Automobile as a major subject.

218Electrical and Electronic Studies

Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering or

Bachelor of Engineering Technology or

Bachelor of Science in Applied Electronics or

A Degree with Electrical and Electronic Studies as a major subject.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202612A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

219Textile and Apparel Studies

Bachelor of Design or

Bachelor of Engineering in Textile and Apparel or Bachelor of Technology or

A degree with Textile and Apparel technology as a major subject.

220Metal Fabrication Studies

Bachelor of Technology (Mechanical) or A General Degree with Mechanical Technology as a major subject or A Degree with Metal Fabrication Studies as major subject or A Diploma in Metal Fabrication with minimum level of NVQ 3 or higher with any degree.

221Aluminum Fabrication Studies

Bachelor of Technology (Civil / Construction / Mechanical) or A Degree with Aluminum Fabrication as a major subject or

A Diploma in Aluminum Fabrication with minimum level of NVQ 3 or higher with any degree.

222Computer Hardware and Networking

Degree in Information Technology, Computer Science/ Computer Engineering with a course duration of three years (having studied the subject areas related to the following subject for the said degree) or

Four-year Degree in Information Technology, Computer Science/ Computer Engineering with a course duration of three years (having studied the subject areas related to the following subject for the said degree) or

Having obtained a Bachelor of Science/ Technology degree with Computer Science as a major subject following subject areas mentioned below with a value of 1/3 from the total subject contents.

Subject Areas

i) Computer Hardware vii) Arduino Technologyii) Computer system Engineering viii) IT Securityiii) Computer Networks ix) Network Securityiv) Computer Architecture x ) Information Securityv) Operating System xi) Cyber Securityvi) Electronics xii) Computer Hardware and Network related projects

223Manufacturing

Three-year Degree in Mechanical Engineering

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

13A

Subject Code SubjectQualifications

224Tourism & Hospitality

Bachelor of Science (Special) in Tourism Management or Bachelor of Science (Special) in Hospitality Management or Bachelor of Administration in Hospitality and Leisure Management or

Bachelor of Science in Tourism, Hospitality and Event Management or

Bachelor of Tourism Management (Special) Degree or Bachelor of Tourism Management or Bachelor of Tourism and Cultural Resource Management or

A Degree with Tourism and Hospitality as a major subject

225Logistic Management

A Degree with Logistic Management as a major subject

226Marketing

Degree in Marketing Management or Business Administration or Business Management or Management or Bachelor of Commerce or a Degree with Marketing Management as a major subject

2. G.C.E (O/L) and Other Subjects

Subject CodeSubjectQualification

301Counseling

Bachelor's Degree (Special) in Psychology / Sociology or Bachelor's Degree (General) in Psychology / Sociology or Following qualifications with any degree;

(a) A Diploma in Counseling of not less than one year from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or a Degree Awarding Institute recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institute approved by the Tertiary Education Commission or

(b) A Post Graduate Diploma in Counseling of not less than one year from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or a Degree Awarding Institute recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institute approved by the Tertiary Education Commission.

302Special Education

Bachelor's Degree in Special Education or Inclusive Education or Bachelor of Science in Speech and Hearing Sciences.

401Science

Should have passed a Bachelor of Science in any 03 subjects from Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Botany, and Agriculture as the subjects for the degree.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202614A

Subject CodeSubjectQualification

402Mathematics

Bachelor of Science (Physical Science) or Subjects related to Mathematics Components included in the main subjects should be comprised as at least 1/3 of the total subject contents (from the number of credits)

403Sinhala language & Literature

Bachelor of Arts (Special) in Sinhala orAny Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Sinhala as the main subject

404Tamil language & Literature

Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in Tamil or any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Tamil as the main subject

405English

Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in English orAny Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with English as the main subject

406History

Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in History orAny Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with History as a major subject

407Geography

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in Geography or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Geography as the major subject

408Civic Education

Bachelor of Arts (Civic Education and Community Governance/Political Science- Special) or

General Degree (Civic Education and Community Governance / Political Science)

409Business & Accounting Studies

Any degree in commerce stream

410Entrepreneurship StudiesAny degree in commerce stream

411FrenchA General or Special Degree with French as a major subject

412HindiA General or Special Degree with Hindi as a major subject413JapaneseA General or Special Degree with Japanese as a major subject414ArabicA General or Special Degree with Arabic as a major subject415GermanA General or Special Degree with German as a major subject416ChineseA General or Special Degree with Chinese as a major subject417RussianA General or Special Degree with Russian as a major subject418 KoreanA General or Special Degree with Korean as a major subject

4192nd Language Sinhala

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree or

General Degree and should have studied Tamil for G.E.C (O/L) have at least a Credit Pass if studied Sinhala as a second language.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

15A

Subject CodeSubjectQualification

4202nd Language Tamil

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree or

General Degree and should have studied Sinhala for G.E.C (O/L) have at least a Credit Pass if studied Tamil as a second language.

421Music (Oriental)

Bachelor's Degree in Performing Arts (Special) in relevant subject or

Bachelor's Degree in Fine Arts (Special) in relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts degree in Performing Arts / Fine Arts / in the relevant subject from an Indian University recognized by the University Grants Commission

422Music (Western)

Relevant Degree and should have obtained A or B passes for G.C.E (A/L) Examination or Having at least one of the following qualifications along with relevant degree;

Pass in Grade VI or above in Practical and Theory exams conducted by one the following institutions.• Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka• Trinity College of Music, London• Royal Schools of Music, London • London College of Music• Institute of Western Music and Speech, Sri Lanka (IWMS)

423Music (Carnatic)

Bachelor's Degree in Performing Arts (Special) in relevant subject or

Bachelor's Degree in Fine Arts (Special) in relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts degree in Performing Arts / Fine Arts / in the relevant subject from an Indian University recognized by the University Grants Commission

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202616A

Subject CodeSubjectQualification

424Art

Bachelor of Visual Arts (Special) Degree with the subject of Art/Sculpture and relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree with the subject of Art /Sculpture and relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant discipline or

A degree in the relevant subject obtained from a foreign university approved by the University Grants Commission or

1/3 of the total subject contents of the relevant General Degree with the subject of Art and having passed the subject of Art with A or B in G.E.C (Advanced Level) Examination.

425Dancing (Oriental)

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant discipline or

Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission (Subject to passing the practical test of Oriental Dancing skills conducted by the Appointing Authority)

426Dancing (Bharatha)

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant discipline or

Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission.

427Drama and Theatre(Sinhala/ Tamil)

Bachelor of Performing Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

Bachelor of Fine Arts (Special) Degree under the relevant subject or

A Bachelor of Arts (Special) degree in the relevant discipline or

Bachelor Performing Arts/Fine Arts/ Arts (Special) Degree in the relevant subject from an Indian University approved by the University Grants Commission.

428Appreciation of Literary (Sinhala)

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Sinhala or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Sinhala as the main subject

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

17A

Subject CodeSubjectQualification

429Appreciation of Literary (Tamil)

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Tamil or Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Tamil as the main subject

430Appreciation of Literary(English)

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in English or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with English as the main subject

431Appreciation of Literary (Arabic)

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Arabic or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Arabic as the main subject

432Information & Communication Technology

Special Degree in Information Communication Technology or

A Bachelor's Degree with Information and Communication Technology as a major subject.

433Agriculture & Food Technology

Any Bachelor of Science Degree in Agriculture or

Completion of at least 1/3 of the total subject contents in any Bachelor of Science / Bachelor of Bio-systems Technology Degree.

434Aquatic Bio resources Technology

Any Bachelor of Science in Agriculture or Bachelor of Science in Animal Husbandry and Fisheries or

Bachelor of Science in Aquatic Resources Management and Zoology or

Completion of at least 1/3 of the total subject contents in any Bachelor of Science in Aquatic Bio-Resource Technology.

435Art and Craft

Special Degree in Visual Arts (Painting, Sculpture, Printmaking, Textile and Textile Related Arts etc.) or

Special Degree in Visual Arts and Design (Arts and Graphics) or

Special Degree in Visual and Technological Arts or

Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree (Art and Craft / Graphic/ Sculpture/ Visual and Technological Arts or one subject as a main subject ).

436Home Economics

“A” Pass for Home Economics in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination and Credit pass for Home Economics in G.C.E. (A/L) Examination and being a graduate of a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or the Ministry of Higher Education or

Should have completed a course of not less than one year in Home Economics from a vocational training institute registered with the Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission and have obtained a Diploma or Certificate AND

Being a graduate in any discipline recognized by the University Grants Commission or the Ministry of Higher Education AND A graduate in Home Science from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or the Ministry of Higher Education.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202618A

Subject CodeSubjectQualification

437Practical and Technical Skills

Should have passed at least 03 subjects in G.E.C. (A/L) Science, Mathematics, Technology stream and being a graduate in any discipline from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or the Ministry of Higher Education.

438Design and Technology

Degree in Technology/Engineering in the relevant field and at least 1/3 of the course content is with subject-related studies or

National Certificate of Technology, Higher National Diploma in Technology or have followed a similar course of not less than one year in a subject-related technical field from an institute registered with the Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission and have obtained the relevant certificate or being a graduate from any subject area from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or the Ministry of Higher Education.

439Health and Physical Education

Bachelor of Science (Hons) Degree in Physical Education or

Bachelor of Science (Hons) Degree in Sports Science and Management.

440Communication and Media Studies

Bachelor of Arts (Special) Degree in Communication and Media Studies or

Any Bachelor of Arts (General) degree with Communication and Media Studies as a main subject.

5.1.4. Age Limit: The applicants should not exceed 45 years in age as at 10.02.2023. (Accordingly, only the applicants whose birthdays fall on or before 10.02.2005 and on or after 10.02.1978 can apply for this post)

5.1.5. Other Requirements:I. Applicants should be the citizens of Sri Lanka.

II. The applicant shall be of good moral character.

III. All the qualifications required for the recruitment to the post should have been fulfilled as at 10.02.2023.

V. Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit enough to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform duties of the Post.

VI. In case that the applicants with special needs are appearing for this examination, it should be stated in Part II and III of the application under No. 04, and the copies of the relevant medical certificates shall be submitted along with a printed copy of the application to the Commissioner General of Examinations, Institutional Examinations Organization Branch, Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

Note 5 If you are an applicant with special needs who has already applied as per Note 2 above, you are required to send a request along with a copy of the application already submitted stating the special facility you expect and the recently obtained medical certificates to the Commissioner General of Examinations at the postal address given in 5.1.5.V above.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

19A

06. Method of Application:

6.1 Online application should be completed in English language only. When the soft copy submitted online is received by the Department of Examinations, the soft copy will be verified and the applicant will be informed of the acceptance / non-acceptance of the application as a valid application through an SMS to the mobile number used to access the system or via an e-mail.

Please download the common instructions prepared in relation to online application. Thoroughly follow the instructions when completing the application. Any revision made in the application after obtaining the printout will not be considered as a valid revision. Incomplete applications will be rejected without further notice.

Note 6 If you are an applicant who has already sent an application as per Note 02 above, there is a possibility of reprinting a soft copy of the previously submitted application by entering your National Identity Card number through the login provided to apply for this examination on the website mentioned in Paragraph 01 above.

Note 7

In case of any difficulty of taking a copy of the application submitted previously as per Note 6 above due to a change in your National Identity Card number or telephone number, you can obtain permission to access the application by sending an e-mail (slexams@gmail.com) to the email address of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.

6.2 Examination Procedure

6.2.1 This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium.

6.2.2 The examination will be held only at the Examination Centers set up in the towns stated in Schedule 04 at the end of this recruitment notification. The town applied for by the applicant should be as per Schedule 04 and the town applied for will not be allowed to be changed later. In case there will not be sufficient number of applicants for the establishment of an examination center in a particular town, those applicants will be directed to an examination center established in the town indicated as their second preference or in another nearby town. Further, if a sufficient number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centers in all or more of the proposed towns, the arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations to conduct the examination only in Colombo.

6.2.3 Each applicant should sit for all question papers in one medium of language. The medium of language in which the applicant is appearing for the examination (Sinhala, Tamil, English) is considered as the medium of the subject to which the appointment is given.

6.2.4 Any applicant will not be allowed to change the subject, preference order of the subject, medium of language applied for, center of examination mentioned in the application.

6.2.5 The examination consists of two (02) question papers. Each applicant should sit for all two (02) papers. An applicant should score at least 40 marks for each paper to pass the examination.

6.2.6 Number of applicants recruited at a time will be determined by the Appointing Authority.

6.3 Only one application will be considered for one applicant.

Note 8 If it is disclosed that an applicant has submitted multiple applications, only the last application submitted by him/her through the online method will be considered.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202620A

6.4 The applicant’s signature in the admission card for the Examination should have been attested. An applicant should have got his signature attested by his/her Head of institution or an officer authorized by him.

Note 9

In an event where the National Identity Card number entered at that time by the applicants covered by Note 2 above has been amended by the Department for Registration of Persons, the information relating to such amendments should be included in the admission form of the examination, and the particulars substantiate such amendments should be included and the signature of the applicant therein should be attested by the Head of their institution or an officer authorized by him.

6.5 On the presumption that only the eligible persons have applied and paid the prescribed examination fee and have properly submitted the online applications on or before the closing date of applications, the admissions will be issued for the applicants by the Commissioner General of Examinations only through the online method. As soon as the admission cards of the examination are issued, the Department of Examinations Sri Lanka will inform the applicants through a web notification / SMS. Any applicant, who has not received the admission should inquire from the Institutional Examinations Organization Division of the Department of Examinations. At the time of making such inquiries, it would be more effective for the applicant to send a request letter stating the name of the examination applied for, the applicant's full name, national identity card number and address accurately to the e-mail address stated in the web notice. In inquiring so, it will be useful to get prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with the applicant and the copy of the receipt obtained after paying examination fees. If any amendments are needed subsequent to the perusal of the admission card, the Department of Examinations should be contacted in advance and the relevant amendments should be made in line with the application. The requests for amendments made in the examination hall/ interview will not be considered.

Note 10

The applicants related to the Note 2 above should pay attention to Notes 6 and 7.

07. Sitting for the Examination:

7.1 An applicant should sit for the Examination in the Examination hall specified for him/her. Every applicant should get his/her signature attested in the admission and submit the admission to the Supervisor on the date he/she first sits the Examination in the specified Examination Hall. Applicants are subject to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on the conduct of Examination. He/She is liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations if such rules and conditions are violated.

Note 11 The issuance of an admission to an applicant for the examination is not considered as an acceptance that he or she has fulfilled the qualification to sit the examination or to hold a post. Merely passing the examination will not be considered as a qualification to get the appointment.

08. Identity of Applicants:

8.1 An applicant should prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor of Examinations in relation to every subject that he/she appears for. An applicant should submit one of the followings to prove the identity.

i. National Identity Card,

ii. Valid Passport,

iii. Valid Driving License in Sri Lanka,

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

21A

Further, the applicants should enter the examination hall without covering the face and the ears enabling to verify their identity and to confirm that they have not worn the electronic devices. Those who refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, the applicants should remain without covering the face and the ears from the moment they enter the examination hall until they leave the hall after examination.

09. Punishment for providing false information: The accurate information should be very carefully furnished in filling the application. His/her candidature may be cancelled in any instance before the examination or at the conduct of the examination or after the examination if it is revealed that the applicant of this examination is not qualified.

10. Syllabus

10.1 Written Examination

Number of question papers prescribed for this examination is two. It is obligatory to appear for both the papers to qualify.

(i). Aptitude Test - 1 hour (100 Marks)

It is expected to measure the analytical skill, logical understanding, ability of interpretation, ability of applying to other situations, skill of quantification, understanding the relationship between time and space of the applicant in relation to the problems presented in a numerical, textual and figurative context and in pertaining to the interrelations. This will consist of fifty (50) MCQ and short answer questions. All questions should be answered.

(ii). General Knowledge – 01 hour (100 Marks)

This question paper consists of fifty (50) MCQs and Short Answer Questions which aim at testing the general knowledge of the applicant in the field of teaching and / or general knowledge on local trends that have taken place and that are currently taking place in education sector and general knowledge on the modifications occurred after 2010 in relation to the education, higher education, technical teacher education. All the questions should be answered.

10.2 General Interview:

Marks will not be allocated for the general interview.

Note 12

Objectives expected to be achieved :’

To test whether the qualifications mentioned in this notification published in compliance with the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service and to test physical qualifications.

10.3 Practical Test

The applicants are expected to do a presentation under a topic identified by applicants as the Practical test. A duration not less than 05 minutes will be given for the presentation and the marks allocated will be as follows.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202622A

Serial No. Criteria for awarding marks at the Practical TestMaximum MarksMinimum Marks required to pass 01Approach to the Objective 050202Personality and Voice Control 050203Clarity in Communication 050204Time Management 050205Use of Presentation Techniques0502Total Marks 2510

Note 13

Objectives expected to be achieved :

Measuring the applicant’s competency learning- teaching process which is an important aspect in the profession of teaching.

N.B - If a certain applicant is eligible to appear for the practical test more than one subject under the same type of school applied for according to 2.8 of this Gazette Notification, the applicant is required to prepare himself / herself to make presentations under the identified topics relevant to each subject qualified for the practical test. The Board of the Practical Test will also consider the preference of the applicant and provide the opportunity to make presentations under one identified topic.

10.3.1 Method of Practical Test

(i) A duration not less than 5 minutes will be given for practical test

(ii) Maximum marks attainable for the practical test is 25 marks.

(iii) At least two (02) marks for each criterion should be scored to pass the practical test.

(iv) The practical test for the applicants who apply for National Schools is evaluated by the Secretary to the Line Ministry of Education, and by an interview board appointed by Provincial Public Service Commissions for the applicants who apply for Provincial Schools.

10.3.2 Objectives of the Criteria

(i) Approach to the Objective Evaluation of the ability of explaining the objective of the lesson and approaching the lesson successfully

(ii) Personality and Voice Control Evaluation of good personality as a teacher and ability of voice control in teaching

(iii) Clarity in Communication Evaluation of the ability of effectively communicating relevant points in learning/teaching process (iv) Time Management Evaluation of the skill of reaching the objective within given time

(v) Use of Presentation Techniques - Evaluation of the ability of using presentation techniques to achieve the objective

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

23A

N.B - In accordance with 10.3 of this Gazette Notification, the applicants who are required to appear for the Practical Test for more than one subject will be given the opportunity to make their presentations under a topic related to one subject identified by the Board of the Practical Test considering the preference of the applicant.

11. Examination Fees:

11.1 The Examination Fee is Rs. 2700/-. Only the following payment methods allowed by the online system should be used to pay examination fees.

I. Any Bank Credit Card

II. Through any bank debit card with internet transaction facilities

III. Bank of Ceylon Online Banking Method

IV. Bank of Ceylon Teller Slip Payments Note 14

The instructions in relation to above payment methods are published in the website under technical instructions for the examination. If the Note 2 is covered, the examination fee already paid will also be applied thereto.

11.2 Receipt of payment will be acknowledged through an SMS or an e-mail. The total amount of the examination fee should be paid, and the applications with less payment will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for any fault occurred in paying examination fees through above payment methods.

11.3 The Examination Fees paid will not be returned or exchanged for any other examination at any cost.

12. Examination Results:

12.1 The final result list will be prepared so that the number of applicants equal to the number of vacancies is included according to the priority of the total marks obtained from the written examination and the practical test of the applicants who have appeared and passed the written examination. The examination results of the applicants who applied only for national schools will be given to the Secretary, Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education and the results of those who applied only for provincial schools will be given to the respective Provincial Public Service Commissions and the results of the applicants who applied for national/provincial schools will also be given to the Secretary, Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education and the relevant Provincial Public Service Commissions. Once the appointing authority notifies a suitable date for the release of the results, the measures will be taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations to personally inform the results to all applicants or to publish results in website www.results.exams.gov.lk. The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations in respect of the examination results is the final decision.

13. Instructions to fill the application:

The online application has been prepared using the following schedules (01,02, 03, 04 and 05)

Schedule 01 Schedule 02

Medium of languageCode NumberSchool Type Code Number

Sinhala 2National Schools Only 1Tamil 3Provincial Schools Only 2English 4Both National and Provincial Schools

3

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202624A

Schedule 03 Schedule 04

Province Code NumberDistrict/TownCode Number

Western Province01Colombo01Central Province02Gampaha02Southern Province03Kalutara03Northern Province04Kandy04Eastern Province05Matale05North Western Province06Nuwara Eliya06North Central Province07Galle07Uva province08Matara08Sabaragamu Province09Hambantota09Jaffna10

Mannar11

Vavuniya12

Mullaitivu13

Kilinochchi14

Batticaloa15

Ampara16

Trincomalee17

Kurunegala18

Puttalam19

Anuradhapura20

Polonnaruwa21

Badulla22

Monaragala23

Ratnapura24

Kegalle25

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

25A

Schedule 05

Subject CodeSubject

National Schools Provincial Schools

Western Province North Central ProvinceNorthern Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

101Chemistry√√√√√√√√√√

102Physics√√√√√√√√√√

103Biology√√√√√√√√√√

104Agriculture√√√√√√√√√

105Combined Mathematics

√√√√√√√√

106Engineering Technology

√√√√√√√√

107Bio-systems Technology

√√√√√√√√

108Science for Technology

√√√√√√√√

109

Information and Communication Technology

√√√√√√√√√√

110Accounting√√√√√√√√√√

111Business Studies√√√√√√√

112Business Statistics√√√√√√√

113Logic and Scientific Method

√√√√√√√

114Economics√√√√√√√√√

115Geography√√√√√√√√√

116Political Science√√√√√√√√√√

117Home Economics√√√√√√√√

118

History (Indian/European/Modern World with Sri Lankan History)

√√√√√√√

119Communication and Media Studies

√√√√√√

120Buddhist Civilization√√√√

121Christian Civilization√√√√√√√√

122Hindu Civilization√√√√√√

123Islamic Civilization√√√√√√

124Buddhism√√√

125Hinduism√√√

126Christianity√√√√√

127Islam√√√√√√√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202626A

Subject CodeSubject

National Schools Provincial Schools

Western Province North Central ProvinceNorthern Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

128Art√√√√√

129Dancing (Oriental)√√

130Dancing (Bharat)√

131Oriental Music√√√

132Carnatic Music√

133Western Music√

134Drama and the Theatre

√√√√√

135Sinhala√√√

136Tamil√√√√

137English√√√√

138Arabic√√√

139French√√√

140Chinese√√√

141Japanese√√√

142German√√√√

143Russians√√√

144Malay√√√

145Hindi√√√

146Korean√√√√

201Child Psychology and Protection

√√ √√

202Health and Social Security

√√ √√√√

203Physical Education and Sports

√√√√√√

204Performing Arts√√√√√

205Event Management√√√√

206Art and Crafts √√ √√

207Interior Design√√√√√√

208Fashion Design√√√ √√

209Graphic Design√√√ √√

210Landscape Design√√√√√√√

211Applied Horticulture Technology Study

√√ √√√

212Livestock Production Technology Study

√√ √√

213Food Production Technology Study

√√√ √√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

27A

Subject CodeSubject

National Schools Provincial Schools

Western Province North Central ProvinceNorthern Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

214Aquatic Resources Technology Study

√√√ √√√

215Plantation Crop Production Study

√√√ √

216Construction Technology Study

√√√√√√√

217Motor Mechanical Technologies

√√√√√√√

218

Electrical and Electronic Technology

√√√√√√√

219Textile and Clothing Technology

√√ √√√

220Metal Processing Technology

√ √√

221Aluminum processingTechnology

√√√√√√

222Computer Hardware and Networking

√√√√√√

223Production√√√√√

224Travel and Hospitality

√√√√√√√

225Supply Management√√√√√

226Marketing√√√√√

301Student counseling√√√√√√√√√

302Special Education√√√√√√√√√

Subject CodeSubject

Eastern Province Central ProvinceNorth Western ProvinceSabaragamuwa Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

101Chemistry√√√√√√√√√√√

102Physics√√√√√√√√√√√

103Biology√√√√√√√√

104Agriculture√√√√√

105Combined Mathematics√√√√√√√√√√

106Engineering Technology√√√√√√√√

107Bio-systems Technology√√√√√√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202628A

Subject CodeSubject

Eastern Province Central ProvinceNorth Western ProvinceSabaragamuwa Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

108Science for Technology√√√√√√√√

109

Information and Communication Technology

√√√√√√√√√

110Accounting√√√√√√√√√√√

111Business Studies√√√√√√√√√√√

112Business Statistics√√√√√√√

113Logic and Scientific Method√√√√√

114Economics√√√√√√√√√√

115Geography√√√√√√√√√√

116Political Science√√√√√√√√√

117Home Economics√√√√√√√√

118

History (Indian/European/Modern World with Sri Lankan History)

√√√√√√√

119Communication and Media Studies√√√√√√√√

120Buddhist Civilization√√√√

121Christian Civilization√√√

122Hindu Civilization√√√√

123Islamic civilization√√√√√

124Buddhism√√

125Hinduism√√√

126Christianity√√

127Islam√√√√√

128Art√√√√√√√

129Dancing (Oriental)√√√

130Dancing (Bharat)√√

131Oriental Music√√√

132Carnatic Music√√

133Western Music√

134Drama and the Theatre√√√√

135Sinhala√√√√

136Tamil√√√√

137English√√√

138Arabic√√

139French√

140Chinese√

141Japanese√√√√

142German√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

29A

Subject CodeSubject

Eastern Province Central ProvinceNorth Western ProvinceSabaragamuwa Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

143Russians

144Malay

145Hindi

146Korean√

201Child Psychology and Protection

√√ √√

202Health and Social Security√√ √√√√

203Physical Education and Sports

√√√√√√

204Performing Arts√√√√√

205Event Management√√√√

206Art and Crafts √√ √√

207Interior Design√√√√√√

208Fashion Design√√√ √√

209Graphic Design√√√ √√

210Landscape Design√√√√√√√

211Applied Horticulture Technology Study

√√ √√

212Livestock Production Technology Study

√√ √

213Food Production Technology Study

√√√ √√

214Aquatic Resources Technology Study

√√√ √√

215Plantation Crop Production Study

√√√ √

216Construction Technology Study

√√√√√√

217Motor Mechanical Technologies

√√√√√√

218Electrical and Electronic Technology

√√√√√√

219Textile and Clothing Technology

√√ √√

220Metal Processing Technology

√ √

221Aluminum processingTechnology

√√√√√

222Computer Hardware and Networking

√√√√√

223Production√√√√

224Travel and Hospitality √√√√√√

225Supply Management√√√√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202630A

Subject CodeSubject

Eastern Province Central ProvinceNorth Western ProvinceSabaragamuwa Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

226Marketing√√√√√

301Student counseling√√√√

302Special Education√√√

Subject CodeSubject

Southern Province Uva Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

101Chemistry√√√

102Physics√√√

103Biology√√

104Agriculture√√√

105Combined Mathematics√√√

106Engineering Technology√√

107Bio-systems Technology√√√

108Science for Technology√√√

109Information and Communication Technology√√√√√

110Accounting√√√√

111Business Studies√√√√

112Business Statistics√√√

113Logic and Scientific Method√

114Economics√√√√

115Geography√√√√

116Political Science√√√

117Home Economics√√

118History (Indian/European/Modern World with Sri Lankan History)√√

119Communication and Media Studies√√√

120Buddhist Civilization√√

121Christian Civilization√√

122Hindu Civilization√√

123Islamic civilization√√

124Buddhism

125Hinduism

126Christianity√

127Islam√√√

128Art√√√√

129Dancing (Oriental)√√

130Dancing (Bharat)√√

131Oriental Music√√

132Carnatic Music√

133Western Music

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

31A

Subject CodeSubject

Southern Province Uva Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

134Drama and the Theatre√√√

135Sinhala√√

136Tamil√√

137English√

138Arabic

139French

140Chinese

141Japanese

142German√

143Russians

144Malay

145Hindi

146Korean

201Child Psychology and Protection√√√√

202Health and Social Security√√

203Physical Education and Sports√√√√

204Performing Arts√√√√

205Event Management√√√

206Art and Crafts √√√

207Interior Design√√√

208Fashion Design√√√√

209Graphic Design√√√

210Landscape Design√√√

211Applied Horticulture Technology Study √√√

212Livestock Production Technology Study√

213Food Production Technology Study √√√√

214Aquatic Resources Technology Study√√√

215Plantation Crop Production Study√√√√

216Construction Technology Study √√√√

217Motor Mechanical Technologies√√√√

218Electrical and Electronic Technology√√√√

219Textile and Clothing Technology√√√√

220Metal Processing Technology√√√√

221Aluminum processingTechnology√√√

222Computer Hardware and Networking√√√√

223Production√√√

224Travel and Hospitality √√√√

225Supply Management√√√

226Marketing√√√

301Student counseling√√√√

302Special Education√√√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202632A

Subject CodeSubject

National Schools Provincial Schools

Western Province North Central ProvinceNorthern Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

401Science√√√√√√√√√√√

402Mathematics√√√√√√√√√√√

403Sinhala Language and Literature√√√

404Tamil Language and Literature√√√

405English language√√√√

406History√√√√√√√√√

407Geography√√√√√√√√√

408Civic Education√√√√√√√√

409Business and Accounting√√√√√√√√√

410Entrepreneurship Studies√√√√√√√√

411French√√√

412Hindi√√√

413Japanese√√√√√

414Arabic√√√√

415German√√

416Chinese√√

417Russians

418Korean√√√

419Second Language (Sinhala)√√√√

420Second Language (Tamil)√√√√

421Music (Oriental)√√√√

422Music (Western)√√√

423Music (Karnataka)√√√

424Art √√√√√√√√√

425Dancing (Oriental)√√√√

426Dancing (Bharat)√√√√√√√

427Drama and Performing Art √√√√√√

428Literature and Appreciation (Sinhala) √√√

429Literature and Appreciation (Tamil)√√√

430Literature and Appreciation (English)

√√√

431Literature and Appreciation (Arab)√√

432Information & Communication Technology√√√√√√√√√√

433Agricultural and Food Technology√√√√√√√√√

434Aquatic Bio-resources Technology√√√

435Art and Craft √√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

33A

436Home Economics√√√√√√√√

437Practical and Technical Skills√√√√

438Design and Technology√√√√

439Health and Physical Education√√√√√√√√√√√

440Communication and Media Studies√√√√√√

Subject CodeSubject

Eastern Province Central ProvinceNorth Western Province Sabaragamuwa Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

401Science√√√√√√√√√√√√

402Mathematics√√√√√√√√√√√√

403Sinhala Language and Literature√√√√

404Tamil Language and Literature√√√√

405English language√√√√

406History√√√√√√√√√

407Geography√√√√√√√√√√√√

408Civic Education√√√√√√√√√√√

409Business and Accounting√√√√√√√√√√√√

410Entrepreneurship Studies√√√√√√√√√√

411French√

412Hindi√

413Japanese√√√

414Arabic√√

415German√√

416Chinese√

417Russians√

418Korean

419Second Language (Sinhala)√√√√

420Second Language (Tamil)√√√√

421Music (Oriental)√√√√

422Music (Western)√√√

423Music (Karnataka)√√√√

424Art √√√√√√√√√

425Dancing (Oriental)√√√√

426Dancing (Bharat)√√√√√

427Drama and Performing Art √√√√√√√√

428Literature and Appreciation (Sinhala) √√√√

429Literature and Appreciation (Tamil)√√√√

430Literature and Appreciation (English)

√√√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.202634A

Subject CodeSubject

Eastern Province Central ProvinceNorth Western Province Sabaragamuwa Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

431Literature and Appreciation (Arab)√√√√

432Information & Communication Technology√√√√√√√√√√√

433Agricultural and Food Technology√√√√√√√√√√

434Aquatic Bio-resources Technology√√√√√

435Art and Craft √√√√

436Home Economics√√√√√√√

437Practical and Technical Skills√√√√√√√√√

438Design and Technology√√√√√

439Health and Physical Education√√√√√√√√√√√√

440Communication and Media Studies√√√√√√√√√

Subject CodeSubject

Southern Province Uva Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

401Science√√√√√√

402Mathematics√√√√√√

403Sinhala Language and Literature√√

404Tamil Language and Literature√√

405English language√√

406History√√√√

407Geography√√√√√√

408Civic Education√√√√√

409Business and Accounting√√√√

410Entrepreneurship Studies√√

411French√

412Hindi

413Japanese√

414Arabic

415German

416Chinese

417Russians

418Korean√

419Second Language (Sinhala)√√

420Second Language (Tamil)√

421Music (Oriental)√√

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

35A

Subject CodeSubject

Southern Province Uva Province

SinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMediumSinhalaMedium Tamil MediumEnglishMedium

422Music (Western)√

423Music (Karnataka)√√

424Art √√√√

425Dancing (Oriental)√√

426Dancing (Bharat)√√

427Drama and Performing Art √√√

428Literature and Appreciation (Sinhala) √√

429Literature and Appreciation (Tamil)√√

430Literature and Appreciation (English)√

431Literature and Appreciation (Arab)√

432Information & Communication Technology√√√√√√

433Agricultural and Food Technology√

434Aquatic Bio-resources Technology√

435Art and Craft √

436Home Economics√√

437Practical and Technical Skills√√√√

438Design and Technology√√

439Health and Physical Education√√√√√

440Communication and Media Studies√√

14. The applicants who fail to attend the interview on the prescribed date will not be considered again for any means.

15. All certificates should be submitted at the interview, and the certificate submitted later will not be accepted.

16. Any particular you mentioned in the application will not be allowed to be changed later.

17. The Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education reserves the right of taking a decision on a matter not covered by this notification. Also, the Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education has the right to take a decision on filling or not filling a portion of any vacancies or completely filling or not filling the vacancies in respect of National Schools, and the respective Public Service Commission reserves the same in respect of Provincial Schools.

18. In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy prevails among the texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Nalaka Kaluwewe Secretary Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education.

02nd February, 2026Isurupaya PelawattaBattaramulla.

EOG 02 - 0015

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.