==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1955$19 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 25 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'02'25No. 1955/19 - THURSDAY FEBRUARY 25, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

MEDIA GUIDELINES TO BE FOLLOWED /POLICIES TO BE OBSERVEDBY THE ELECTRONIC AND PRINT MEDIA DURING REFERENDA AND AN ELECTIONS

IN terms of provisions of Article 104B(5)(a) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka asamended by the Ninteenth Amendment and in particular, to ensure the rightful exercise of franchise and free and fairelections and referenda, the following guidelines are issued by the Election Commission, to be followed by all electronicand print media institutions and personnel involved.

1. All telecasting, broadcasting and print media shall be neutral and impartial in their reporting of electionrelated matters and shall not discriminate against any contesting political party / independent group or acandidate, in allocating airtime and allotting space in the newspapers.

2. All media institutions shall provide accurate, balanced and impartial information in broadcasting/televisingtheir news bulletins and other programmes relating to political matters. The neutrality and impartiality ofmedia shall be monitored by the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on Elections Complaintsand the Standing Committee of Permanent Representatives on Media Guidelines regularly.

3. Sometimes, editorial opinions may seem confused and biased and therefore, electronic media are urged notto broadcast/telecast such opinions. However, if such editorial opinion is broadcast/televised/published, theaffected party should be given the opportunity to broadcast/telecast/publish material to counter such opinion.

4. Programme presenters and announcers of television and radio channels, should refrain from expressingpersonal views at the newspaper desks where newspaper headlines and cartoons are presented, since suchviews may promote one party with prejudice to another.

5. It is the responsibility of the news and current affairs divisions of all electronic and print media institutionsnot to broadcast/televise/publish any programme or supplement which are not advertisements during theelection period, if such programme/supplements/news items are illegal or biased.

6. If any material is broadcast/televised/published covering an incident or an event with comments of onecandidate, all other political parties that have an interest in the event or are concerned, or are likely to beaffected, should also be given opportunity to express their version on the same news item or programme.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'25PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.20162A

7. All documentary programmes or special programmes which are directly connected with the election andbroadcast/televised during the period of an election, should disclose the names of the script writer, announcerand the editor. If the particular media institution has retained the right not to disclose the same, the person incharge of the programme should be held responsible for its contents.

8. Air time during any programme or news bulletin should not be utilized for making unsubstantiated allegationsagainst candidates contesting at an election that cannot be reasonably proved. If a candidate or a politicalparty claims that another candidate or a supporter has made any false statement against him/her or his/herparty, opportunity should be availed of to him/her or his/her party to counter the same.

9. When airing/publishing news or programmes which are not related to the election, such as official functionsand events related to crimes, all media institutions should consult the parties involved for clarity, since suchnews/programmes could promote or demote some candidate or a party.

10. Coverage given by Radio or Television to opinions/views expressed by the President or Prime Minister orMinisters should be treated as coverage given to the political party to which he/she belongs and thereforeleaders of rival political parties contesting the election should also be given opportunity in similar programmes.The print media should similarly provide equal space and prominence to all political parties/candidates inpublishing special discussions and reporting campaign meetings.

11. Special favours should not be given in allocating air time or space in the print media to one candidate or moreto promote his/her/their election or to cause disadvantage to another.

12. Refrain from publishing or broadcasting lectures, interviews, etc. with public officers which promote anycontesting candidate or cause disadvantage to other candidates.

13. All electronic media institutions should act fairly in selecting participants for panel discussions and as such,the composition of the discussion should be balanced. They should refrain from directing programmes tocause disadvantage to any representative who has poor language proficiency. When publishing interviews ofpoliticians with poor language proficiency, print media shall not create uncomfortable situations to them.Information obtained through vague and incomprehensible questions should not be published, or such questionsshould never be asked. At the outset, the participant in the programme should be warned not to make statementswhich are unethical or harmful to communal harmony, and if such statements are made while the discussionis in progress, the programme should be discontinued then and there.

14. All phone-in programmes should give fair opportunity for all callers irrespective of the content of theirquestions or contributions. Directors, moderators and others engaged in organizing such phone-in programmesshould be answerable for imbalanced phone-in programmes.

15. If any Chairperson, Member of the Board of Management, Director or a responsible journalist of any electronicor print media institution actively engages in political activities, such activities cause conflict of interestinProviding balanced broadcasting/publishing. Hence, such officers/ employees shall inform of the followingin writing in advance to the management of the institution.

a. His/her level of involvement,b. Position held in the institution,c. Extent of involvement in programme making

16. When an individual holding a leading post in a recognized political party(Leader, Chairman, Secretary, NationalOrganizer, Treasurer, Deputy Leader, Assistant Leader, Senior Deputy Chairman or a post with similar powers)and holding a dominant office such as the Chairman/Member of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive/Chief Editor in a media institution, and if he/she is a candidate at the election or if his/her party is contestingdirectly or under a recognized alliance, such person should refrain from actively engaging in duties of his/her

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'25PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.20163A

post of the media institution. If such person is contesting as a candidate while holding office in a contestingparty at an election, he/she should refrain from anchoring/moderating programmes of a political nature in atelevision or broadcasting institution and in the case of print media he/she should not publish his/her ownpolitical articles through that media institution.

17 When a person of a party refuses to participate at a discussion or interview and chooses not to offer reasonsfor his/her non-participating, the media institution shall respect his/her position. Dramatic situations such asdisplaying of an empty chair etc., should not be employed to underline non-participating. It is recommendedthat a simple and direct announcement be make about the absence of the participant. .

18 A broadcaster who broadcasts or print media that publishes the result of an opinion poll, should announce thename of the organization that conducted the poll, the organization or the person that commissioned andfunded the poll, methodology employed, the size of the sample, margin of error and the period of fieldwork.In addition the broadcaster or publisher should state that the poll reflects the public opinion only at the timethe poll was taken.

19 No statement where a candidate promotes the candidature of another contestant of another party or groupshall be broadcast, telecast or published.

20 Media personnel should not engage in taking photographs or videoing of the inside of polling stations orpostal voting centers as the Election Commission has prohibited such activities without written consent. Anyphotographs or video visuals obtained illegally should not be published in newspapers, televised or promotedthrough any media. Even the photographs and visuals obtained with the approval of the Commissioner, shouldbe published or televised only after the poll.

21 It is considered vital that a period of silence prevails just before the date of poll to enable the voter tocontemplate and consider the pros and cons of various policies announced and promises made by politicalparties and candidates during the election campaign. The media shall refrain from televising, broadcasting orpublishing discussions, debates, advertisements, etc. related to the election during the period of silence(period of refraining from carrying out propaganda), enacted by law (48 hours), prior to the date of an election.

22 Refrain from broadcasting/telecasting/publishing propaganda that may create or induce hatred and intoleranceamong Sri Lankan people on various grounds including the religious beliefs, faiths practised, languages spoken,ethnicity, customs and castes.

23 Avoid broadcasting/telecasting/publishing propaganda activities that promote hateful politics among politicalactivists and within society.

24 Refrain from republishing or repeat telecasting of statements expressed previously by a candidate or asupporter about another candidate,without the consent of the declarant and honour the request made by adeclarant not to repeat such statements made by him/her previously.

25 Media institutions shall not give coverage to anonymous notices or propaganda and to the notices or propagandaunder the names of fake organizations or persons. The responsibility in this regard shall lie with the respectivemedia institution.

26 The National Anthem, The National Flag,Historical flags, Provincial and Regional Flags, Religious Symbols,Religious Flags, paintings or photograph of founders of religions or religious leaders shall not be publishedor broadcast to promote or demote the candidature of a candidate or a party/group. Notices or advertisementsof such nature shall not be broadcast/ televised/ published.

27 Media institutions shall be accountable with regard to publishing/broadcasting/televising incorrect statements/news and they will be subject to legal proceeding that would arise in this regard.

28 It is the responsibility of all electronic/print media institutions to adhere to and abide by the moral ethics ofmedia.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'25PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.20164A

29 According to the 19th Amendment to the Constitution, the use of state property and funds by state mediainstitutions to promote political parties/groups/candidates is illegal and it is also an offence to cause loss togovernment revenue and act to cause damage to an institution. All government and semi government mediainstitutions shall refrain from engaging in such activities as disciplinary action could be instituted againstthose responsible, in addition to the punishments prescribed in the Constitution.

30 It is expected that the proprietors of all electronic and print media shall adhere to the guidelines given aboveand shall ensure that their institutions observe them earnestly.

31 It is also expected that the administrators of social media sites shall also follow the above guidelines asapplicable to them, during the election period.

32 It is not only the duty, but also the responsibility of the proprietors of media institutions and administrators/users of social media to adhere to the above guidelines, because it is essential to follow them during theelection period.

33 The Standing Committee comprising permanent representatives of political parties, the Coordinating Officersof the National Centre for Investigation of Election Complaints and representatives of Observer Organizationsrecognised by the Election Commission will intervene in the issues arising in the implementation of theguidelines and express their views and recommendations. Their views and recommendations shall be consideredby the Standing Committee for Media guidelines comprising officers of the Elections Commission,representatives of Ministry of Mass Media and Department of Information, along with the views/observationsof the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka and shall make decisions. Media institutions shall act accordingto these decisions. Implementation of these guidelines will be by consensus of this Committee which isestablished to direct, observe and monitor the implementation of these guidelines.

34 Media institution or any journalist is not bound to publish or broadcast, any order or a request, made by apolitical party/a candidate, violating the aforesaid guidelines. At such instances such institution or the journalisthas the right to seek legal assistance.

35 Media institutions should work towards ensuring that vote is a fundamental right of the people and its exerciseis their obligation.

36 It is the responsibility of media institutions to promote criteria, guidelines and democratic principles requiredfor a conducive political culture.

These media guidelines are issued to create a conducive environment for a free and fair election. It is, therefore, theresponsibility of all political parties, independent groups, and political activists, election observer organizations,civil society organizations and every citizen of this country to support media institutions to implement them and toprevent obstructions in the implementation of the same. Hence, the Election Commission, anticipates all concernedparties will extend their cooperation to all media institutions to act according to these media guidelines.

Mr.Mahinda Deshapriya,Chairman, Election CommissionMr.N.J.Abeysekara, Member, Election CommissionMr.S.Rathnajeevan H. Hool, Member, Election Commission

NB: Please note that these Media Guidelines drafted on the basis of the guidelines issued at previous elections, werepresented to the Heads of Media Institutions. Thereafter, the draft was discussed with the permanentrepresentatives nominated by Heads of Media Institutions. The current Guidelines are issued after a consensuswas arrived at, after the deliberations at these discussions.

03-289

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.