==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

1 A

1 A

wxl 1994$77 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'11'25

No. 1994/77 – Friday, November, 25. 2016

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

¡ºø —ïÊËThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

Northern Province, Provincial Council

Northern Province Child Development Center Statute No. 04 of 2016

NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province, Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Child DevelopmentCenter Statute No : 04 of 2016, on 22nd September 2016 and that the Hon. Governor, Northern Province has granted his Assentto it on 21st November 2016.

K. THEIVENDRAM,Secretary,Council Secretariat,Northern Provincial Council.

Council Secretariat,A 9 Road,Kaithady,22nd November, 2016.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

2 A

CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTRE STATUTE OF THENORTHERN PROVINCE

Regulation of Sections

1. Short title and date of operation.

PART IRegistration of a Child Development Centre

2. Requirements to register a Child Development Centre.3. Management and administration of Child Development Center.4. Qualifications for registration.5. Application for the provisional approval to establish a Child Development Centre.6. Grant of provisional approval.7. Establishment of the Child Development Centre to be completed within the period granted.8. Registration of a Child Development Centre.9. Grounds for refusal of a registration.10. Admission of Children to a Registered Child Development Centre and duties of Manager.11. Renewal of Certificate of Registration.12. Minimum standards to be maintained by Registered Child Development Centre.

PART IIInspectors and Visitors

13. Appointment of Inspectors.14. Inspection and Supervision of Registered Child Development Centres.15. Appointment of Visitors.

PART IIIClosure of a Registered Child Development Centre, suspension or cancellation of Certificate of Registration

16. Procedures to be followed at the closure of a Registered Child Development Centre.17. Suspension or cancellation of Certificate of Registration.18. Issue of general and special directions by the Provincial Commissioner.19. Order of cancellation.20. Right to appeal.21. Order to be made on appeal.22. Transfer of Children from a Registered Child Development Centre.23. Effect of a cancellation of a Certificate of Registration.

PART IVChild Development Centre of the Northern Province

24. Child Development Centre of the Northern Province.25. Duties of the Warden of a Child Development Centre of the Northern Province.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

3 A

PART VReceiving Home

26. Care of children less than five years of age.27. Registration of a birth.28. Submission of an examination report.29. Placement of a child.

PART VIFinance

30. Availability of resources.31. Audit of accounts.

PART VIIOffences

32. Establishment or maintenance of a Child Development Centre in contravention of the Statute to be an offence.33. Failure to provide information or making any false statement to be an offence.34. Obstructing the Provincial Commissioner etc., to be an offence.35. General penalty.36. Offences committed by a body of persons.37. Additional penalty where an offence is committed by a Manager etc.,.

PART VIIIMiscellaneous

38. Relief payment by the Provincial Commissioner.39. Regulations.40. Submission of reports to the Provincial Commissioner.41. Annual financial statement of a Registered Child Development Centre.42. Registration of Children's Home.43. Interpretation.44. Savings.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

4 A

A STATUTE TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION, SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATIONOF CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTRES; THE PROTECTION OF THE RIG HTS OF CHILDRENACCOMMODATED IN SUCH CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTRES AND FOR MATTERSCONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO. THIS STATUTE IS INCONSISTENTWITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE ORPHANGES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 142)

BE it therefore enacted by the Northern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka as follows :-

1. This statute may be cited as the Northern Province Child Development Centre Statute, No. 04of 2016 and shall come into force on such date as the Governor of the Northern Province may give hisassent thereto.

PART IRegistration of a Child Development Centre

2. On and after the coming into force of this Statue, a Child Development Centre for orphans ordeserted children between the ages of five to eighteen (hereinafter referred to as the “Children”) shall notbe established or maintained within the Northern Province, except upon being registered for that purposeunder the provisions of this Statute.

3. (1) The Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care services (hereinafter referred toas the “Provincial Commissioner”) shall be charged with the responsibility of ensuring the efficientmanagement and administration of the Registered Child Development Centres.

(2) The Provincial Commissioner shall exercise, discharge and perform the powers, functionsand duties as may be assigned to him under this statute.

(3) The Provincial Commissioner may, subject to such conditions as he may think delegate toan officer, such of his powers, functions and duties and such officer may exercise, discharge and performsuch powers, functions and duties and are assigned to him.

(4) The Provincial Commissioner may, whenever he deems appropriate to do so exercise,discharge and perform all or any of the powers, functions and duties delegated to an officer.

4. The qualifications required to be eligible for the registration of a Child Development Centreunder this Statute are as follows:-

(a) the applicant shall be a voluntary organization registered under the provisions of theVoluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 or aninstitution incorporated by a Statute of the Northern Provincial Council having as one of the objects ofits constitution. The establishment and maintenance of a Child Development Centre;

(b) the applicant shall have sufficient finance for the establishment and maintenance of aChild Development Centre;

(c) the applicant–

(i) shall have proposed separate Boards of Management for males and females for theadministration of the proposed Child Development Centre, consisting of seven members including aChairman, a Vice Chairman, a Secretary, a Deputy Secretary, a Treasurer and a Manager;

Short title and dateof operation.

Requirements toregister aChild DevelopmentCentre.

Management andadministration ofRegistered ChildDevelopmentCentre.

Qualifications forregistration.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

5 A

(ii) Shall ensure that the Chairman, the Secretary, the Treasurer and the Manager of theproposed Child Development Centre are citizens of Sri Lanka and residents within the boundaries of theNorthern Province at least three years continuously;

(iii) Shall ensure that not less than three members of the Board of Management arepermanent residents of the Divisional Secretariat Division or the District, as the case may be, withinwhich the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established;

(d) the applicant shall have the possession of the movable and immovable property of theproposed Child Development Centre;

(e) the applicant shall ensure that the place where the proposed Child Development Centre isto be established is a safety environment;

(f) the land in which the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established shall be inthe name of the voluntary organization or incorporated institution or, shall be received by suchorganization or incorporated institution on lease for at least twenty five years;

(g) members shall not be subject to any grounds for refusal specified in section 9; and

(h) the applicant shall satisfy the minimum standards required for the establishment of a ChildDevelopment Centre as set out in Schedule I to this Statute.

5. (1) A voluntary organization or incorporated institution which desires to establish a ChildDevelopment Centre within the Northern Province may where it satisfies the qualifications specified insection 4 of this Statute, apply for a provisional approval to establish such proposed Child DevelopmentCentre, in the form specified in Schedule II to this Statute, which shall be signed by the person who isassigned to function as the Manager of such proposed Child Development Centre.

(2) On receipt of an application submitted for provisional approval under sub-section (1), theProvincial Commissioner shall forthwith require a probation officer or any other officer having adeqateexperience as determined by the Provincial Commissioner, and who is authorized in that behalf to holdsuch inquiry as may be necessary and submit a report on the same within such time as shall be specifiedby the Provincial Commissioner.

(3) The report referred to in sub-section (2) shall, among other matters state whether theapplicant satisfies all the qualifications specified in section 4 to become eligible to be-granted the provi-sional approval.

6. (1) The Provincial Commissioner shall, upon examining the contents of the report submittedto him under sub-section (2) of section 5, and having –

(a) determined the need to establish a Child Development Centre in the particular areawhere such Child Development Centre is being proposed to be established, in view of the number ofRegistered Child Development Centre being already maintained in that area;

(b) taken into account any other information that he may have gathered on any visit madepersonally to the premises where the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established,

arrive at a decision as to whether or not to grant provisional approval for the establishment of the ChildDevelopment Centre concerned.

(2) It shall be the duty of the applicant to furnish any information and details required by theProvincial Commissioner relating to establishment of Child Development Centre.

Application for theprovisionalapproval toestablish a ChildDevelopmentCentre.

Grant ofprovisionalapproval.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

6 A

(3) A decision on any application received by the Provincial Commissioner shall be made witha period of three months from the date of receipt of such application and where the ProvincialCommissioner arrives at a decision to–

(a) refuse the grant of provisional approval, he shall inform the applicant in writing of suchfact giving reasons for the refusal; or

(b) grant a provisional approval, the applicant shall be issued with a Provisional ApprovalCertificate in the form specified in Schedule III to this Statute.

(4) A Provisional approval Certificate issued under paragraph (b) of sub-section (3) shall bevalid for a period of six months from the date of its issue, and be subject to such terms and conditions thatmay be prescribed for that purpose by the Minister.

7. (1) The person to whom a Provisional Approval Certificate has been granted under Section 6shall be required fourteen days prior to the expiry of period of validity of such Provisional ApprovalCertificate, to establish the Child Development Centre to which it relates and submit a report of itscompletion along with an application as may be determined by the Provincial Commissioner for theregistration of such Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre for thePurpose of this Statute.

(2) In the event the person to whom a Provisional Approval Certificate is issued is unable tocomplete the establishment of the Child Development Centre within the period of six months referred toin sub-section (1), such person may, on a written request made in that behalf to the ProvincialCommissioner, be granted an extension of a further period up to a maximum of another six months.

8. (1) Within one month of the receipt of the report and the application for registration referredto in sub-section (1) of section 7, the Provincial Commissioner shall either by himself or through an officerauthorized in that behalf, make such inquiries and inspections as he considers necessary andappropriate, in order to determine whether–

(a) such Child Development Centre has the capacity to maintain in a manner that wouldensure the best interest of the children admitted therein since the issue of the Provisional ApprovalCertificate; and

(b) such Child Development Centre should therefore be declared as a Registered ChildDevelopment Centre for the purpose of this Statute.

(2) On the conclusion of the inquiry and inspection carried out under subsection (1), theProvincial Commissioner shall–

(a) register such Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre andissue a Certificate of Registration in the form specified in Schedule IV to this Statute; or

(b) refuse to register such Child Development Centre a Registered Child DevelopmentCentre on any one or more grounds referred to in Section 9 and state his reasons for such refusal.

(3) A Certificate of Registration issued under paragraph (a) of sub-section (2) shall be valid fora period of three y ears from the date of its issue and shall be subject to such terms and conditions as shallbe prescribed from time to time for that purpose by the Minister.

(4) Where the Provincial Commissioner refuses to grant a Certificate of Registration underparagraph (b) of sub-section (2) of this section, the Provisional Approval Certificate already issued to the

Establishment ofthe ChildDevelopmentCentre to becompleted withinthe period granted.

Registration of aChild DevelopmentCentre.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

7 A

person concerned, if it be in operation, shall stand cancelled, and the provisions of section 10 of thisStatute shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of any children who may have been admitted tosuch Child Development Centre after the grant of the Provisional Approval Certificate.

9. An application for the registration of a Child Development Centre as a Registered ChildDevelopment Centre under subsection (1) of section 8, may be refused by the Provincial Commissioner,on any one or more of the following grounds–

(a) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant does not have or isnot able to obtain adequate resources to administer and maintain such Child Development Centre;

(b) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant has failed to provideor obtain adequate resources necessary to provide education or any other training, accommodationfacilities, guardianship, protection and maintenance to the Children in the Child Development Centre;

(c) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the Manager of the Child Develop-ment Centre or any person working in the Child Development Centre in a voluntarily capacity or, anyofficer or other employee of the Child Development Centre or any other person associated with theadministration of the Child Development Centre, is a person who has been convicted of an offence;

(d) where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the repute or character of anyperson or persons employed in or working at the Child Development Centre is such that it renders himunsuitable to be so employed or work in a voluntary capacity in the Child Development Centre or to beassociated in working with the children resident in such Child Development Centre;

(e) Where the Provincial Commissioner is satisfied that the Child Development Centreconcerned would be unable to maintain the minimum standards for Registered Child Development Cen-tres specified by the Minister under section 12; or

(f) any other grounds as may be determined by the Minister from time to time, by NoticePublished in the Gazette. Such notice shall be placed before the Provincial council within three months.

(g) In case of refusal by the Provincial Commissioner, the applicant shall have the right ofappeal to the Minister who shall appoint an appropriate committee consisting three members to go intoit and the decision of that committee shall be final.

10. (1) A child shall not be admitted to a Registered Child Development Centre

(a) without the prior approval of the Provincial Commissioner; and

(b) in violation of the age limit, gender or any categorization based on religious persua-sions or any other factors as may have been determined by the Provincial Commissioner at the time ofregistering such Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), where a child is found to be facing asituation which endangers or threatens to cause any harm or a threat to the child's life, health or safety,such a child may be admitted to a Registered Child Development Centre without the prior approval of theProvincial Commissioner.

(3) The Manager of the Registered Child Development Centre shall inform to the Probationofficer, Child Rights Promotion Officer or Officer of the National Child Protection Authority relating to theadmission of the child under subsection (2) within twenty four hours from such admission and shallreceive such approval of the Provincial Commissioner within two weeks from such admission.

Grounds for refusalof a registration.

Admission ofchildren to aRegisteredChild DevelopmentCentre and dutiesofManager.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

8 A

(4) Where a child is found to be facing a situation which endangers or threatens to cause anyharm or a threat to the child's life, health or safety, the Manager of the Registered Child DevelopmentCentre Shall take necessary action within twenty fours hours.

(5) Any convicted child or any child affected by any abuse shall not be admitted to theRegistered Child Development Centre established under this Statute.

11. A Certificate of Registration issued may be renewed on application being made there for withinthree months prior to the date of expiry of the period of validation of such certificate of Registration andthe provisions of section 4 of this Statute shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in respect of suchapplication for renewal.

12. (1) The Minister may, by an Order Published in the Gazette specify the minimum standardsthat should be maintained by a Registered Child Development Centre and it shall be duty of the Board ofManagement of the Registered Child Development Centre to strictly comply with all standards so speci-fied. Such notice shall be placed before the Council within three months.

(2) In the case of emergency, a Registered Child Development Centre may be exempted by theProvincial Commissioner from complying with the minimum standards specified in an Order publishedunder subsection (1) for a specified period of time.

PART II

Inspectors and Visitors

13. (1) The Provincial Commissioner shall for the purposes of this Statute, appoint by name oroffice any Public officer or any retired public officer, as an Inspector or Inspectors of Registered ChildDevelopment Centres within the Northern Province.

(2) An Inspector appointed under subsection (1) shall in the performance and discharge of hisduties and functions, act on the advice or instructions that may be issued by the Provincial Commis-sioner and be subject to his authority.

14. (1) The Provincial Commissioner or an Inspector appointed under section 13, may at anytimeenter and inspect a Registered Child Development Centre and may for that purpose, carry out an exami-nation on any matter as he may consider necessary, to ensure the best of interest of the children residentin such Registered Child Development Centre, including an examination into the state and managementof the Registered Child Development Centre, the conditions prevailing therein, the manner in which thechildren are being looked after and an examination of the records being maintained in respect of eachchild resident in such Registered Child Development Centre.

(2) Every Inspector shall submit a report to the Provincial Commissioner at the end of theinspection under subsection (1).

15. (1) The Minister may appoint any one or more persons, by name or office, to be visitors ofevery Registered Child Development Centre within the Northern Province.

(2) A person appointed to be a visitor, may exercise in respect of each Registered ChildDevelopment Centre that he visits, the powers conferred on an Inspector by section 14 of the Statute.

(3) Every visitor shall submit a report to the Minister with a copy to the Provincial Commis-sioner at the end of the inspection under subsection (1).

Renewal ofCertificate ofRegistration.

Minimumstandards to bemaintained byRegistered ChildDevelopmentCentre.

Appointment ofInspectors.

Inspection andsupervision ofRegistered ChildDevelopmentCentres.

Appointment ofVisitors.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

9 A

PART III

Closure of a Registered Child Development Centre, suspension orcancellation of Certificate of Registration

16. (1) Where a registered voluntary organization or institution incorporated by a Statute of theNorthern Province passes a resolution to close a Registered Child Development Centre, such voluntaryorganization or institution shall forthwith inform to the Provincial Commissioner about such resolution.

(2) Every resolution under subsection (1) shall come into operation after lapse of period of sixmonths from the date of resolution.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Board of Management of such Registered Child DevelopmentCentre to continue to provide guardianship, protection and maintenance to any children resident thereinuntil such time as the children concerned are removed from such Registered Child Development Centre.

(4) On the date of such resolution, all the movable and immovable property received or heldin the name of or by the account of such Registered Child Development Centre shall be forfeited to theProvincial Commissioner.

17. (1) A Certificate of Registration issued under section 8 shall be suspended or cancelled if-

(a) it is found that the Certificate of Registration had been obtained by providing false,misleading or inaccurate information;

(b) the manager or member of the Board of Management of the Registered Child Devel-opment Centre has contravened any provisions of this Statute or any regulation, direction or Order madeunder this Statute;

(c) the Registered Child Development Centre becomes danger to the safety of the Chil-dren; or

(c) the Registered Child Development Centre has willfully fails to comply with the guide-lines or standards.

(2) Where a Certificate of Registration issued is suspended or cancelled as the case may beunder subsection (1), It shall be duty of the Provincial Commissioner to inform forthwith to the Managerof such suspension or cancellation, by a written communication sent under registered post to theaddress given by the Manager.

(3) Where the Certificate of Registration is cancelled under subsection (1), all the movable andimmovable property received or held in the name of or by the account of such Registered Child Develop-ment Centre on the date of cancellation shall be forfeited to the Provincial Commissioner.

18. (1) Where the Provincial Commissioner is of the opinion, that-

(a) the manner in which a Registered Child Development Centre is being administered isnot satisfactory;

(b) the accommodation facilities made available to the children in such Registered ChildDevelopment Centre are not adequate or conducive to the welfare of the children resident therein;

(c) the manner in which the children are being cared for, has a negative effect of the wellbeing and protection of the children resident in such Registered Child Development Centre;

Procedures to befollowed at theclosure of aRegistered ChildDevelopmentCentre.

Suspension orcancellation ofCertificate ofRegistration.

Issue of generaland specialdirections by theProvincialcommissioner.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

10 A

(d) the minimum standards specified by the Minister under section 12 of this Statute arenot being maintained; or

(e) any terms and conditions prescribed under subsection (3) of section 8 are not beingcomplied with,

the Provincial Commissioner shall have the authority to issue general or special directions to the Boardof Management of the Registered Child Development Centre, regarding measures to be adopted torectify the situation.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Board of Management to which any directions are issued undersubsection (1), to comply with the same.

(3) Any general or special directions to be issued under subsection (1), shall be-

(a) sent by registered post to the Chairman of the Board of Management or where appro-priate forward to him through the Grama Niladhari of the area where the Registered Child DevelopmentCentre is situated; or

(b) affixed to a conspicuous place in any building of the Registered Child DevelopmentCentre.

(4) Where the Board of Management of the Registered Child Development Centre to whomany general or special directions are issued under subsection (1) fails to comply with such directions, theProvincial Commissioner shall have the power to make an application to an appropriate Magistrate'sCourt having jurisdiction, to ensure their due compliance.

19. (1) Where an application is made to a Magistrate's Court by the Provincial Commissionerunder subsection (4) of section 18, the Magistrate shall, on being satisfied after an inquiry held for thatpurpose that the Board of Management has failed to comply with any general or special directions issuedby the Provincial Commissioner, issue notice to the members of the Board of Management, requiringthem, to appear before such Magistrate and show cause why the Certificate of Registration granted theRegistered Child Development Centre concerned, should not be cancelled due to such failure.

(2) On receipt of a notice issued by a Magistrate under subsection (1), if the members of theBoard of Management fails to appear before such Magistrate on the date specified in such notice orhaving appeared fails to show sufficient cause as to why the Certificate of Registration should not becancelled, the Magistrate shall make an order cancelling the certificate of Registration of the RegisteredChild Development Centre concerned.

(3) Where an order is made under subsection (2) cancelling the Certificate of Registration ofa Registered Child Development Centre, the Provincial Commissioner or Inspector or any person who isduly authorized in that behalf by the Provincial Commissioner shall have the power to enter into suchRegistered Child Development Centre, and–

(a) remove the children resident in such Registered Child Development Centre to an-other Registered Child Development Centre within the Northern Province;

(b) hand over the children to their parents; or

(c) remove the children to any other location as may be determined by the ProvincialCommissioner.

(4) Where the Certificate of Registration is cancelled under subsection (2), all the movable andimmovable property received or held in the name of or by the accuont of such Registered Child Develop-ment Centre on the date of cancellation shall be forfeited to the Provincial Commissioner.

Order ofcancellation.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

11 A

20. (1) Any person who shall be dissatisfied with any order made by a Magistrate under subsec-tion (2) of section 19 may prefer an appeal to the relevant High Court established by Article 154P of theConstitution in like manner as if the order was a final order pronounced by Magistrate's Court in a criminalcase or matter, and sections 320 to 330 (both inclusive) and sections 357 and 358 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No., 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such appeal.

(2) Any person dissatisfied with an order made by a High Court in the exercise of its appellatejurisdiction under this section, may prefer an appeal there from to the Supreme Court, on a Question oflaw, with the leave of the High Court, and where such leave is refused, with the special leave of theSupreme Court first had an obtained.

21. (1) A Provincial High Court shall have the power to make anyone of the following orders on anappeal made to it under subsection (1) of Section 20–

(a) affirm, reject or vary the order made by the Magistrate's court;

(b) grant the Board of Management, Permission to show cause before the Magistrate; or

(C) make any other order as it may deem just in the circumstances of the case.

22. (1) The manager of a Registered Child Development Centre shall be required to comply withany directions or instructions issued by the Provincial Commissioner with regard to the replacement ofany child resident in such Registered Child Development Centre and no child resident in such RegisteredChild Development Centre shall be transferred to any other Registered Child Development Centre or beremoved from such Registered Child Development Centre in any manner, without the prior approval ofthe Provincial Commissioner.

(2) The manager of a Registered Child Development Centre shall hear the opinion of the childrelating to transfer of residence of child residing in such Registered Child Development Centre shall beand the importance shall be given to the best interest of the child.

(3) Where the Placement Committee of a Registered Child Development Centre as may beprescribed by regulations decides to keep a child in the Registered Child Development Centre for morethan three years, such decision shall not be carried out without obtaining the prior approval of theProvincial Commissioner for the same.

23. (1) Any child shall not be admitted to any Registered Child Development Centre, the Certifi-cate of Registration of which has been cancelled.

(2) Any child who was resident in any Registered Child Development Centre, at the time of thecancellation of its Certificate of Registration or where the order of cancellation was affirmed in appeal, asthe case may be, it shall be the duty of the Board of Management of such Registered Child DevelopmentCentre to continue to provide guardianship, protection and maintenance to any child resident thereinnotwithstanding such cancellation or the affirmation of the order, as the case maybe, until such time asthe chid concerned is removed from such Registered Child Development Centre.

PART IV

Child Development Centre of the Northern Province

24. (1) The Minister may establish a Child Development Centre of the Northern province to bemaintained by the Northern Provincial Council, for the reception, guardianship, protection and mainte-nance of any children who may be removed from a Registered Child Development Centre, due to the

Right to appeal.

Order to be madeon appeal.

Transfer ofchildren from aRegisteredChild DevelopmentCentre.

Effect of acancellation of aCertificate ofRegistration.

Child DevelopmentCentre of theNorthern Province.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

12 A

suspension or cancellation of its Certificate of Registration or failure to convert the Provisional ApprovalCertificate to Certificate of Registration or refusal of renewal of the Certificate of Registration under thisStatute, until alternate arrangements are made.

(2) All expenses incurred in the establishment, administration and maintenance of a ChildDevelopment Centre of the Northern Province established under subsection (1) shall be paid out of theProvincial Fund of the Northern Provincial Council.

(3) The Minister shall appoint by name or office, a person to be the Warden of a Child Devel-opment Centre of the Northern Province established under this section and such number of other officersand servants as may be required to administer such Child Development Centre of the Northern Province.

(4) The management of a Child Development Centre of the Northern Province establishedunder this section shall be entrusted to a Board of Management which shall consist of the ProvincialCommissioner who shall be its Chairman and not more than three other mambers to be appointed by theMinister, and the person appointed as the Warden of such Child Development Centre of the NorthernProvince shall be the Secretary of the Board.

25. (1) The Warden of a Child Development Centre of the Northern Province, shall perform theduties of his office in compliance with any directives issued by the Board of Management of such ChildDevelopment Centre of the Northern Province and in accordance with any advice or instructions thatmay be issued by the Provincial commissioner from time to time.

(2) The warden shall take all necessary steps to ensure adequate guardianship, protectionand matintenance to the children admitted to the Child Development Centre of the Northern Province andtake all necessary action to transfer as soon as possible such children to a Registrered Child Develop-ment Centre within the district from where such children had been transferred or to send such childrenback to their parents, as the case may be.

(3) Where the Warden takes action to transfer any child to a Registered Child DevelopmentCentre, he shall obtain the prior approval of the Provincial Commissioner for that purpose. The Provincialcmmissioner may grant such approval upon the receipt of a report from the Probation Officer.

PART V

Receiving Home

26. (1) An orphan or a deserted child who is less than five years of age, shall be accommodated,placed and protected only in a Receiving Home which is administered by the Department of Probationand Child Care Services of the Northern Province.

(2) Any person who becomes aware that a Child under five years of age has become an orphanor has been deserted, may frothwith inform the Officer-charge of the nearest police station, any policeofficer, an officer of the Department of Probation Child care Services of the Northern Province or theGrama Niladhari of the area, as the case may be, of such fact.

(3) It shall be the duty of any officer who receives information under sub section (2), to takenecessary action to forthwith admit the child concerned to the nearest Government hospital for a medicalexamination.

(4) Where on examination the child is found not to be in need of any medical treatment, it shallbe the duty of the Director of the hospital or any officer duly authorized in that behalf with the consentof the Provincial Commissioner, to admit the Child concerned to a Receiving Home situate within theNorthern Province.

Duties of theWarden of aChild DevelopmentCentre of theNorthern Province.

Care of childrenless than five yearsof age.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

13 A

27 (1) It shall be the duty of the Director of a hospital or any other officer duly authorized in thatbehalf, to take all preliminary steps necessary to ensure the registration of the birth of a child born in suchhospital who is found to be an orphan or a deserted a child, prior to such child being released from thehospital.

(2) Once such birth has been duly registered, it shall be the duty of the Director of the hospitalto inform the Provincial Commissioner forthwith and the Provincial Commissioner shall take all necessarysteps to admit such child to a Receiving Home situate within the Nortern Province.

28. In respect of every child who is admitted to a Receiving Home within the Northern Province, itshall be the duty of the Probation Officer in charge of the unit or an officer authorized in that behalf by theProvincial Commissioner, to submit to the Provincial Commissioner within thirty days of admitting suchchild to the Receiving Home, a detailed report containing all information pertaining to such child.

29. It shall be the duty of the Provincial Commissioner to perform all duties connected with theplacement of a child admitted to a Receiving Home within the Northern Province and he may in theperformance of such duty, obtain the assistance of an appropriate Placement Committee.

PART VI

Finance

30. (1) The Provincial Commissioner shall use any funds made available, by the Government orfrom the Provincial Fund by the Northern Provincial council under its annual estimates or any money orfunds obtained from any other financial resources or through donations, for carrying out the activitiesand performing the duties entrusted to him by or under this Statute.

(2) The Provincial Commissioner shall maintain proper books of accounts of all funds madeavailable to him for the performance his duties under this Statute.

(3) (2) The provisions of section 23 (1) and 23 (2) of the provincial council Act No. 42 of 1987shall apply in this regard and the accounts of the Child Development Centre shall be audited annually bythe Auditor general or a Qualified auditor appointed by the Auditor general in terms of Article 154 of theConstitution.

31. The annual income and expenditure and the accounts of each registered Child DevelopmentCentre shall be audited by a qualified auditor and be submitted annually to the Provincial commissioner.

PART VII

Offences

32. Any person or body of persons who–

(a) establishes a Child Development Centre without obtaining a Provisional Approval Certifi-cate for the same or continue to operate as a Child Development Centre after the cancellation of aProvisional approval Certificate;

(b) maintains or administers a Child Development Centre after the expiry of the validationperiod of the Provisional Approval Certificate, without being registered as a registered Child Develop-ment Centre under this Statute; or

(c) continues to operate as a Registered Child Development Centre after the cancelation of itsregistration.

Registration of abirth.

Submission of anexamination report.

Placement of achild.

Availability ofresources.

Audit of accounts.

Establishment ormaintenance of aChild DevelopmentCentre incontravention ofthe Statute to be anoffence.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

14 A

Shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary Trial before aMagistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to a term imprisonment ofeither description not exceeding a period of five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

33. (1) Any person who fails or refuses to submit any information or record required to besubmitted under this Statute shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction aftersummary trial before a Magistrate, be liable–

(a) where such offence is being committed for the first time, to a fine not exceeding twentyfive thousand rupees; or

(b) where such offence is being committed for the Second time, or thereafter, a to fine notexceeding fifty thousnad rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a periodof two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Any person who knowingly submits false information or knowingly makes any false orinaccurate statement in any record or application made under this Statute, shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Statute and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable–

(a) where such offence is being committed for the first time, to a fine not exceeding twentyfive thousnad rupees; or

(a) where such offence is being committed for the Second time, or thereafter, to a fine notexceeding fifty thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a periodof two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

34. Any person who resists or obstructs the Provincial Commissioner, Probation Officer, an in-spector, a visitor or any officer authorized by the Provincial Commissioner, in the performance of anyduty or in the discharge of any function or in the exercise of any power imposed on the Provincialcommissioner, Probation Officer, an inspector or visitor or any officer authorized by the Provincialcommissioner, by or under this Statute, shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liabel to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousandrupees or to a term imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of two years or to both suchfine and imprisonment.

35. Any person who acts in contravention of any provisions of this Statute or any regulations,directions or Order made there under, shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and be liable onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to aterm of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of six months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

36. Where an offence under this Statute is committed by a body of persons, then, if that body ofpersons is–

(a) the Board of Management which is administering a Child Development Centre or a Regis-tered Child Development Centre, as the case may be, every member of such Board of Management;

(b) a body corporate, every director, manager, secretary or an officer of that body corporate; or

(c) a firm, every partner and every manager of that firm, shall be jointly and severally liable forthe commission of the offence, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his consent orconcurrence and that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

Failure to provideinformation ormaking any falsestatement to be anoffence.

Obstructions theProvincialCommissioneretc., to be anoffence.

General penalty.

Offences committedby a body ofpersons.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

15 A

37. Where an offence under this Statute is committed by the Manager, a member of the Board ofManagement of a Registered Child Development Centre or any member of the staff of such a RegisteredChild Development Centre, The Magistrate shall have the power, in addition to imposing the penaltyspecified for that offence, to order for the cancellation of the registration granted to such Child Develop-ment Centre.

PART VIII

Miscellaneous

38. The Provincial Commissioner shall, on application made in that behalf by the Manager of aRegistered Child Development Centre pay in respect of each child resident in such Registered ChildDevelopment Centre, a sum of money determined by the Minister as a relief, maintenance grant to beused for the benefit of each child.

39. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effectRegulations to the provisions of this Statute.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minis-ter may make regulations for all or any of the following matters-

(a) all matters in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to be made underthis Statute;

(b) information to be included in any report required to be submitted under this Statute;

(c) books and registers to be kept and maintained by the Provincial Commissioner andparticulars to be entered therein;

(d) procedure for inspection of Registered Child Development Centre;

(e) the circumstances in which children may be admitted to or discharged from a Regis-tered Child Development Centre; and

(h) any other matters that may become necessary in order to give effect to the provisionsof this Statute.

(3) All regulations made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall be Placedbefore the Northern Provincial Council within three months of such Gazetting and be approved by suchNorthern Provincial Council.

(4) Every regulation which is not approved by the Northern Provincial Council shall bedeemed to be rescinded from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone there under.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall be deemed to be rescinded, shall bepublished in the Gazette.

40. (1) It shall be the duty of the Manager of a Registered Child Development Centre to submit areport to the Provincial Commissioner once in every three months, in a form specified in Schedule V tothis Statute.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the Provincial Commissioner or anyofficer authorized in that behalf by the Provincial commissioner shall have the power to request theManager of a Registered Child Development Center by a notice issued in that behalf, to submit a reporton any particular matter relating to the administration of such Registered Child Development Centre or to

Additional penaltywhere an offence iscommitted by aManager etc.

Relief paymentby theProvincialcommissioner.

Submission ofreports to theProvincialCommissioner.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

16 A

provide any information considered necessary, to ensure the best interest of the Children resident insuch Registered Child Development Centre and it shall be the duty of such Manager to submit the reportor to provide the information as the case may be, within the time stipulated in the notice issued.

41. (1) An annual financial statement in respect of each Registered Child development Centreshall be prepared by a qualified auditor who has been appointed for that purpose at the Annual GeneralMeeting of the voluntary organization or incorporated institution and the financial statement so pre-pared shall be adopted at an Annual General Meeting of the organization or incorporated institution.

(2) The financial statement perpared under subsection (1), shall be forwarded to the ProvincialCommissioner by the Manager of the Registered Child Development Centre concerned, on or before the30th of April of each year.

42. Notwithstanding the fact that any Children's Home which is established within the NorthernProvince has been registered with the Social service Department of the Northern Province, if such Homeis a “Child Development Centre” within the meaning of this Statute, such Home shall be required to beregistered under this Statute.

43. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires:-

“Child Development Centre” means a Child Development Centre being maintained fullyor partly out of voluntary funds providing accommodation facilities, protectionand undertaking the guardianship of orphans and deserted children;

“deserted” when applied to a legitimate child, means a child deserted by both parents ordeserted by one parent, the other being dead or incapable of acting as a parentor a child both of whose parents are incapable of acting as parents, and whenapplied to an illegitimate child means a child deserted by his or her mother or achild whose mother is incapable of acting as a parent;

“Inspector” means a an Inspector of Registered Child Development Centre appointed bythe Provincial Commissioner under section 13;

“Manager” means the person responsible for the management of a Registered ChildDevelopment Centre and in the case of a Child Development Centre that has notbeen established, means the person proposed to be appointed as Manager afterits establishment;

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Probation and Child CareServices of the Northern Province;

“orphan” when applied to a legitimate child, means a child, both of whose parents aredead or one of whose parents is dead, the other being incapable of acting as aparent, and when applied to an illegitimate child, means a child whose mother isdead;

“Probation Officer” means an officer appointed as a Probation Officer under section 17 ofthe Probation of Offenders Ordinance (Chapter 24);

“Children Development Centre of the Northern Province” means a Children DevelopmentCentre of the Northern Province established by the Minister under section 24 ofthis Statute;

“Receiving Home” means Receiving Home which is being administered by the ProvincialDepartment of Probation and Child Care Services under section 26 of this Stat-ute;

Annual financialstatement of aRegistered ChildDevelopmentCentre.

Registration ofChildren's Home.

Interpretation.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

17 A

“Registered Children Development Centre” means a Children Development Centre whichis registered under Section 8 of this Statute; and

“Warden” means the person appointed by the Minister under Sub section (3) of section25 of this Statute, to be in charge of a Child Development Centre of the NorthernProvince.

44. (1) Any orphanage which has been registered under the Orphanage Ordinance (Chapter 142)and is being operated and maintained on the date of the coming into operation of this Statute shall,notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 2 of this Statute, but subject to the provisions ofSubsection (2), be permitted to continue to be operated and maintained as such from the date of thecoming into operation of this Statute, for a period of six months.

(2) Prior to the expiry of the Period of six months referred to in Sub section (1), an orphanagereferred to in that Sub section shall be required to make an application under Section 8 of this Statute forthe registration of such orphanage as a Registered Children Development Centre.

(3) Where an application is made for registration under subsection (2) of this Section, theProvincial commissioner shall grant a Temporary Certificate of Registration in the from specified inSchedule VI of this Statute which shall be valid for a period of six months and the Provincial commis-sioner shall require, as may be appropriate, to comply, with the requirements specified in Sections 4 and8 before the expiry of such Period, and thereafter make a decision to register such Orphanage as aChildren Development Centre under this Statute.

45. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala versions of this Statute,between the Tamil version shall prevail.

Savings

Tamil text toprevail in thecase ofinconsistency.

SCHEDULE I[Section 4 (h)]

Minimum Standards for the Establishment of a Child Development Centre

1. The members of the Board of Management of the Child Development Centre shall submit the police report andcharacter references from public officers.

2. The members of the Board of Management of the Child Development Centre and the members of the staff shallobtain approval to work with children from the Department of probation and child Care Services of the Northern Province.

3. The majority of the members of the Board of Management of the female Child Development Centre shall be femalesand female caregivers shall be appointed.

4. The staff shall not have been accused in criminal cases relating to adult or child abuse, whether convicted or not.

5. (i) The members of the Board of Management and the members of the staff should have passed two subjects in theGeneral Certificate of Education (Advance Level); should have completed training in relation to child development and childpsychology; and should have minimum 5 years' experience relating to childcare; and be aged between 30 to 60 years.

(ii) The caregivers should have passed 6 subjects in the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) includingMathematics and Tamil; should have minimum 2 years' experience relating to childcare; and be aged between 25 to 60 years.

(iii Any volunteers should have passed 6 subjects in the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) includingMathematics and Tamil; should have minimum 1 month experience relating to childcare; and be aged between 18 to 60 years.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

18 A

6. Each child shall be placed with due regard for their religion, age, gender and mental status.

7. Children with special needs shall be given special care.

8. (1) The Child Development Centre shall provide services to only one age group of children stipulated below-

(i) age 6 – 10 years; or(ii) age 11 – 18 years.

(2) Both male and female children could be accommodated together under group (i) and only either male or femalechildren should be accommodated at the Child Development Centre under group (ii).

9. A first aid box shall be maintained in each building where children are accommodated.

10. A library shall be maintained and the books appropriate for the children's age shall be kept there.

11. A television, radio, musical instruments, board games, art materials for drawing and painting shall be a available topromote leisure activities among children.

12. Access to proper facilities shall be provided for children with physical or psychological disabilities.

13. Child Development Centre shall provide facilities within premises for the children to meet their parents, relatives andfriends.

14. A functioning fire extinguisher shall be available in each part of the building of Child Development Centre.

15. In a Child Development Centre, there shall be at least 1 staff member for every 5 children under age of 6 years andat least 3 staff members for every 25 children over age of 6 years.

16. Children shall be provided appropriate education or training to become employed when they leave the care of theChild Development Centre.

17. Every child shall be provided to register with a medial Officer.

18. The Child Development Centre shall be near to the educational institution.

19. The building of the Child Development Centre shall be designed appropriately for children.

20. The building or the premises shall consist of bedrooms, toilet and bathrooms, seating area, study area, outdoor playarea, garden, dining room and kitchen. Those areas shall be made accessible to children with disabilities.

21. Each child shall be allocated indoor space (36 Square feet) and have his or her own bed; mosquito nets shall beavailable for each bed; personal cupboard with a lock shall be available for each child; room shall have adequate lighting andventilation.

22. A number of toilet and bathroom at a ratio of 1 toilet and a bathroom for every 8 children shall be a vailable andbathroom and toilet facilities shall be attached to the children's rooms.

23. Water tanks shall be available at the childcare institution to provide uninterrupted access to water supply.

24. Toilet and bathroom facilities shall be available separately for males and females.

25. Adequate number of chairs and tables shall be provided for children to continue their studies.

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

19 A

26. The study area shall be located separated from the common areas.

27. Sufficient number of plates, cups, spoons shall be available for children.

28. A high wall fence shall be available around the premises and a watchman shall be available for 24 hours.

29. There shall be sufficient transport facilities at the Child Development Centre for children.

30. When there is no electricity, a torch or lamps shall be available.

31. In the child Development Centre, there shall be a complaint box and shall be provided to make complaints anony-mously.

SCHEDULE II[Section 6 (1)]

Application for Provisional Approval

1. Name of the voluntary organization or institution seeking approval:-

2. Registration Number given on being registered as a voluntary organization:-

3. Sex and maximum and minimum age of the children who are proposed to be admitted to the Child DevelopmentCentre

4. Sources of the funding available for the maintenance of the proposed Child Development Centre:-

5. Total amount of the funds available for expenditure for the establishment of the proposed Child DevelopmentCentre:-

6. Names and addresses of the Member of the Board of Management of the Proposed Child Development Centre:-

7. Whether the applicant has satisfied the minimum standards required as specified in Schedule 1 of this Statute:-

*Attached hereto is a plan of the building or buildings to be erected for the maintenance of the proposed Child DevelopmentCentre and of the deed of the property in which the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established.

..........................................................................Signature of the Manager of the Board ofManagement of the proposed Child Development Centre.

Date:.....................................

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

20 A

SCHEDULE III[Section 6 (3) (b)]

Provisional Approval Certificate

I, ..........................................................., Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services for the NorthernProvince, do hereby issue under Section. 6 (3) (b) of the Child Development Centre Statute of NorthernProvince No. 04 of 2016, this Provisional Approval Certificate for the establishment of the Child Develop-ment Centre to be called and known as ....................................., at ............................

Given on this ......................... day of ................20...........

.........................................................................Signature of theProvincial Commissioner of Probation andChild care Services of the Northern Province.

Date:.....................................

SCHEDULE IV[Section 6 (2) (b)]

Certificate of Registration

I, ............................, Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services of the Northern Province, dohereby certify that the Child Development Centre established at ............................., and called and knownas ...................................., was registered by me as a Registered Child Development Centre under section 8(2) (a) of the Child Development Centre Statute of Northern Province No. 04 of 2016.

Issued on this ................ day of ..................., 20......

.........................................................................Signature of the Provincial Commissioner ofProbation and Child care Services of theNorthern Province.

(Seal)

Date:.....................................

IV ï¨å´Ì : (w) ï¯¼Æ _ Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ _ 2016.11.25

PART IV : SEC. (A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA — 25.11.2016

21 A

SCHEDULE V[Section 40 (1)]

Information Report under section 40 (1)

Name and location of the Registered Child Development Centre:-

Number, age and sex of the children accommodated at the Child Development Centre, as on the datehereof:-

Number of cases of serious illness among the children in the Child Development Centre during the threemonths immediately preceding the date hereof and the nature of the illness in each case:-

Nature and quantity of the normal diet of the children in the Child Development Centre and number ofmeals given per day to each such child:-

Number of children (if any) who had left the Child Development Centre during the the months immedi-ately preceding the date hereof and the cause for leaving:-

................................................................Signature of the Manager of the Boardof Management of the RegisteredChild Development Centre.

Date:.....................................

SCHEDULE VI[Section 41 (3)]

Temporary Certificate of Registration

I, ............................, Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services of the Northern Province, dohereby and issue this Temporary Certificate of Registration under Section 41 (3) of the ChildDevelopment Centre Statute of Northern Province No. 04 of 2016, to the Orphanage established under theOrphanages Ordinance (Chapter 142) at .................................... and called and known as ........................,which shall be valid for a period of six months from .............................. this day of ..............20..............

.........................................................................Signature of the Provincial Commissioner ofProbation and Child Care Services of theNorthern Province.

(Seal)Date:.....................................

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,SRI LANKA

12–509