I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.2024

1A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2415$59 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 19 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024'12'19No. 2415/59 - thursday, December 19, 2024

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Seal

Proclamations & C., by the President

PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVE

Anura Kumara Dissanayake

1A - G 43320 — 364 (12/2024)

Establishment of a Presidential Task Force to plan and implement the “Clean Sri Lanka” Programme, by virtue of the powers vested in me by Article 33 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

To:

1. Dr. N. S. Kumanayake Esquire Secretary to the President2. Commander of the Army3. Commander of the Navy4. Commander of the Air Force5. W.L.A. Saman Priyantha EsquireActing Inspector General of Police 6. Eng. Kumudu Lal De Silva EsquireChairman, Urban Development Authority

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.20242A

7. I. S. Jayaratna Esquire8. Gihan De Silva Esquire9. Madam Sandya Salgado10. Dr. Gamini Batuwitage Esquire11. Dr. Anuruddha Gamage Esquire12. Dilruk Wanasinghe Esquire13. Deepal Sooriyaarachchi Esquire 14. Sisira Amarabandu Esquire 15. Krishantha Cooray Esquire 16. Jayathu Perera Esquire 17. Ruwan Weerasooriya Esquire 18. Dayan Karunarathna Esquire

Greetings!

WHEREAS, the people of Sri Lanka have become victims in the context of Sri Lanka lagging behind not only economically but also politically, socially, culturally and ethically, the people’s aspirations to take the country towards a new renaissance by changing the situation that they have experienced thus far has been clearly reflected in the recent election results;

WHEREAS, an approach to make behavioural changes in society can be achieved by role modelling, influencing, providing guidance, and strongly emphasizing the need for change, the government has recognised the need to implement a systematic programme to steer the society towards progress;

WHEREAS, the government believes that such changes make a decisive impact on the economic development of the country as well;

WHEREAS, the government recognizes that it is essential to launch a national operation targeting a social, environ-mental and ethical awakening in the country, as well as fulfilling a transformative initiative ensuring the wellbeing, harmony and progress of the people of this country in line with the vision of “A Thriving Nation, A Beautiful Life”;

WHEREAS, a transformative initiative is required to be launched to strengthen the environmental, economic and social sustainability and the state machinery, and the present government has been entrusted with an unavoidable responsibility to act accordingly;

AND WHEREAS, the necessity to establish a Presidential Task Force to implement the “Clean Sri Lanka Programme”, has been recognized at the Meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers held on December 02, 2024;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do hereby establish the Presidential Task Force to plan and implement the “Clean Sri Lanka” Programme and, reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, appoint you the said :-

1. Dr. N. S. Kumanayake Esquire Secretary to the President2. Commander of the Army3. Commander of the Navy4. Commander of the Air Force5. W.L.A. Saman Priyantha EsquireActing Inspector General of Police 6. Eng. Kumudu Lal De Silva EsquireChairman, Urban Development Authority7. I. S. Jayaratna Esquire8. Gihan De Silva Esquire9. Madam Sandya Salgado

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.2024

3A

10. Dr. Gamini Batuwitage Esquire11. Dr. Anuruddha Gamage Esquire12. Dilruk Wanasinghe Esquire13. Deepal Sooriyaarachchi Esquire 14. Sisira Amarabandu Esquire 15. Krishantha Cooray Esquire 16. Jayathu Perera Esquire 17. Ruwan Weerasooriya Esquire 18. Dayan Karunarathna Esquire

as the members of the said Presidential Task Force to execute below mentioned tasks subject to the provisions stipulated in the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and any other written laws.

The Said tasks namely;

i. Plan, guide, implement, review the progress, and complete the “Clean Sri Lanka” programme within a given time frame aiming to achieve the objectives of elevating society to a more advanced status through a social, environmental and ethical awakening;

ii. Create an organisational structure to facilitate the implementation of this programme from the national level to rural level.

iii. Obtain the subject knowledge and contribution of scholars, professionals, experts and representatives of institutions relating to the subject areas covered by the “Clean Sri Lanka” Programme.

iv. Prepare a structure to engage stakeholders such as government and semi government sectors, private sector, research institutions, civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations, international organisations and development practitioners, consultancy and professional organisations, community and citizen organisations, mass media and communication institutions, financial institutions, religious organisations, technology providers and inventors, Sri Lankan diaspora in this programme.

v. Raise funds for the “Clean Sri Lanka” Fund and provide the necessary instructions and guidance to manage the “Clean Sri Lanka” Fund as required.

vi. Identify programmes implemented in concurrence with this programme by various stakeholders such as government institutions, private sector, international organisations and institutions, non-governmental organisations and align them with the “Clean Sri Lanka” Programme.

vii. Identify and formulate legal provisions required to ensure the sustainability of the outcomes of this programme and establish an institutional framework to which the responsibility for enforcing such laws and rules in the long term is conferred upon.

viii. Leverage digitalisation to plan, guide, implement, review the progress and sustainably continue this programme.

ix. Develop and implement a multi-mode communication strategy to positively influence and engage all stakeholders.

AND, I appoint Dr. N. S. Kumanayake Esquire, Secretary to the President, as the Chairman of the aforesaid Presidential Task Force and G.M.R.D. Aponsu Esquire, Senior Additional Secretary to the President as the Convener/ Secretary of the said Task Force.

AND, I do hereby authorize you, members of the Presidential Task Force, to make inquiries and issue instructions as required for the purpose of executing the tasks so entrusted, and also to obtain the assistance of the public officers from

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.12.20244A

whom such assistance is intended by the Presidential Task Force, subject to the provisions stipulated in the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and any other written laws.

FURTHERMORE, I do hereby inform you, members of the said Presidential Task Force, to submit reports to me from time to time, in respect of the execution of the aforesaid tasks by you.

Given at Colombo under the Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 18 day of December, Two Thousand and Twenty Four.

By order of the Honourable President,

Dr. N.S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

eog 12 - 0201

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.