==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 05.01.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2052$32 - 2018 ckjdß ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'05No. 2052/32 - FRIDAY, JANUARY 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

ANNOUNCEMENT UNDER SECTION 76A OF THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ACT (CHAPTER 262)SUSPENSION OF PROPAGANDA ACTIVITIES, 48 HOURS BEFORE THE POLL DAY

AS it is the responsibility of the Elections Commission to conduct free and fair elections in accordance with Article 104B(1)of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and the said is empowered to issue directives in orderto overcome the obstacles to the conduct of elections be held under the Local Authorities Elections Act (Chapter 262) asamended by Local Authorities Elections (Amendments) Act, No. 22 of 2012, it is hereby announced that the followingdirectives accordingly are issued by the Commission.

1) Following actions which would promote or prevent the election of any Party or Independent Group or candidateare prohibited to be committed during the period of 48 hours before the poll day.

(a) Any form of propaganda meetings ;

(b) House to house campaign to solicit votes ;

(c) Distributions of handbills or notices ;

(d) Displaying or fixing flags, banners, notices, pictures, or photographs for the purpose of promotion orprevention of the election of any Party, Independent Group or candidate, in any vehicles except the vehiclein which the candidates are travelling, at residences, non-resident buildings, temporary huts, empty lands,public places or any place visible to the public.

(e) Display of propaganda materials through print media, electronic media, social media or telephones ;

(f) Propaganda through loudspeakers ;

(g) Propaganda on the pretext of performing religious rites ;

(h) Display of notices, photographs, picture, flags, banners or decorations in the residence which is used bythe candidates as the office.

1A PG 3869 — 207 (01/2018)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'01'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 05.01.20182A

2) House to house distribution of handbills for the purpose of soliciting votes

A Limited access is granted to the candidates for the purpose of visiting house-to-house soliciting votes, duringthe period from the last date of nominations and 48 before the poll day.

(a) As it is prohibited to conduct processions or rallies to promote candidates during the election period thecandidates are allowed to visit houses with a maximum 10 persons. However it should not be a processionor a rally.

(b) It is prohibited to visit houses with any instrument that generates or amplifies sound. It is further prohibitedto carry propganda notices, flags, banners etc, during these visits.

(c) Policy statement of the Party or candidates can be delivered to the voters in the form of hand bills, but itis prohibited to carry posters or banners. The photographs of the candidates (along with the photographsof all candidates, if necessary) may appear in the policy statement. These handbills should not be preparedas notices that could be displayed. They should neither be used as notices.

(d) Handbills should be distributed without any disturbance to the general public and without using amplifiersat public places.

(e) Names and other details of the printer and publisher should appear on the handbills and such handbillsshould not contain any hate statements or statements that generate religious, linguistic, ethnic or castedisharmony.

(f) Non-adherence to these conditions is a violation of directives and this permission to do house-to-homevisit could be withheld on notice to the party/group or candidate at any time they are violated.

03) Establishment of notified campaign offices by Political Parties and Independent Groups contesting the election.

(a) The Political Parties and Independent Groups contesting the election are granted a conditional approval tomaintain a notified central campaign office for each Local Authority and for each of the polling divisionwhen a Local Authority is comprised several polling divisions and a notified branch office for each of thewards during the period from the final day of nominations period and 48 hours before the poll day. subjectto the instructions and restrictions imposed as appropriate, by the Election Commission, It is herebynotified that any such office which breaches the said instructions, restrictions and conditions or engages inany action that is inconsistent with the election law or injurious to the public, shall be treated as unlawfulcampaign office and shall be dealt with in terms of the provisions of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance.

(b) A conditional approval is also granted to maintain the residence of the candidates contesting for the wardsor whose names appear in the additional nomination list as a campaign office subject to the instructionsand restrictions imposed by the Election Commission. It is also notified that maintaining campaign officeseven at the owned residencies shall be in compliance with the election law and the conditions imposed bythe Election Commission and in such manner without causing any inconvenience to the public.

MAHINDA DESHAPRIYAN. J. ABEYESEKERES. RATNAJEEVAN H. HOOLEChairmanMemberMemberElection CommissionElection CommissionElection Commission

On this 05th day of January 2018,Elections Secretariat,Sarana Mawatha,Rajagiriya.

01-808

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.