==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.08.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2086$35 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'08'30

No. 2086/35 - THURSDAY, AUGUST 30, 2018

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4196 — 42 (08/2018)

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Provincial Councils Notifications

NORTH WETERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Amendment of the Statue of the Human Resource Development Authority in the North Western Province No ...... 2018 of

the North Western Provincial Council.

IT is hereby notified that the amended Statue of the Human Resource Development Authority in the North Western ProvinceNo. ....... 2018 of the North Western Provincial Council published hereunder shall be submitted to the North WesternProvincial Council on completion of thirty days from today and if any person has any objection with regard to the provisions

set out in this Statute such objections should be sent to me before that date.

D. G. B. M. DHARMASIRI DASSANAYAKE,

Chief Minister,Minister of Finance and Planning, Engineering

Services, Law and Order, Education, LocalGovernment and Local Administration, EconomicDevelopment, Environment Affairs, Water Supply

and Drainage and Tourism.

Chief Ministry and the Ministry of Finance and Planning,Engineering Services, Law and Order, Education, Local Government and Local Administration, Economic Development, Environment Affairs,Water Supply and Drainage and Tourism in the North Western Province1st Floor,North Western Provincial Council Office Complex,Kurunegala..

2 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.08.2018

NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST

REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.

Human Resource Development Authority (Amendment) Enactment of Nort West No. .........of 2018 of

North Western Provincial Council

AN ENACTMENT TO AMEND THE HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

ENACTMENT No.1OF 1994 OF NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL.

Be it enacted by North Western Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

01. This Enactment may be cited as Human Resource Development Authority (amendment ) Enactment

of Wayamba No. …………of 2018 and will take effect from the date approved by the Governor.

02. The Sec.6 of Human Resource Development Authority Enactment No.1of 1994 (herein after referred

to as Principle Enactment )is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section givenbelow.

6.1 A board of Directors ,herein after referred to as Directors consisting of the following membersshall be appointed for the Authority.

a.A representative of the Chief Secretaryb.Secretary of chief Ministry or one of his representatives.c.Provincial Director of Education or one of his representativesd.Commissioner of Provincial Co-operative Developmente.03 members appointed by the Minister in Charge of subject.

2.The Minister in Charge of subject shall appoint a Director from among the directors as thechairman of the Authority and he shall be the chief.3.The board of Director with the concurrence of Minister in Charge of subject may appoint amember among the members as an executive Director.

03. Sub Section 05 of Section 9 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substi-

tuting the Section given below.

(5)The chairman shall preside the meeting held for the Board of Directors and in case he is absent,a temporary chairman shall be appointed.

04. Section 11 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section

given below.

11.The chairman ,Executive Director, and members of Board of Directors are entitled to receiveremuneration at a rate as determined by the Minister for discharging duty in the Authority.

05. Sub Section 01 of Section 12 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and

substituting the Section given below.

(I) Common seal of the institution shall be kept under the custody of the chairman.

Enforcement ofShort Title

Amendment ofSection 6 ofEnactment No. 1of 1994

Amendment ofSub Section 9(5)of PrincipleEnactment

Amendment ofSection 11 ofPrincipleEnactment

Amendment ofSub Section 12(I)of PrincipleEnactment

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.08.2018

06. Section 14 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section

given below.

14. General Manager of the Authority shall function in the capacity of Secretary .

07. Section 15 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section

given below.

15. (I)Chairman of the Authority shall be the chairman of Board of Directors and he shall lead theAuthority in order to meet its objectives.

(2) Executive Director shall discharge the duties assigned by the Board of Directors and he shallbe responsible for the chairman and the Board of Directors in that regard.

08. Section 16 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section

given below.

16(1) Board of Directors shall appoint a General Manager to implement powers ,functions andprovisions.

(2) There shall be a staff comprising an Administrative Officer, Accountant and field officers inorder to get their support by the General Manager.

(3) General Manager shall responsible for the chairman and the Board of Directors in respect ofsupervision, control and administration of Authority’s functions.

(4) The chairman of the Authority will be the appointing Authority and the Board of Directors willbe the disciplinary Authority. Same as the Secretary to the Minister in Charge of subject will bethe Appealing Authority.

09. Sub Section 18 (2)(b) I. of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting

the Section given below.

18 (2)b I. Registration of all the institutions which have been established or will be established infuture for involving in the development of human resources, control of their functions so as tosuit for the requirement of the area, providing guidance ,financial assistance or any other supportand deciding time period at which institutions are operated.

II. Implementation of projects through which generate job opportunities within the province byproviding suitable services for government ,semi government and private institutions.

PART IV

Offences and Penalties

10. Following Section is hereby inserted as the part IV of said Enactment.

27 (a) i. Any person, who makes a false statement under this statute or for the functions of thisstatute or upon any report ,order or a term made or provide under this Enactment,

Amendment ofSection 14 ofPrincipleEnactment

Amendment ofSection 15 ofPrincipleEnactment

Amendment ofSub Section 16of PrincipleEnactment

Appointing theGeneral Manager

Assistant Staff

Duty of GeneralManager

AppointingAuthority,DisciplinaryAuthority,AppealingAuthority

Amendment ofSub Section 18(2)b of PrincipleEnactment

Sub Section 18(2)b of PrincipleEnactment

Insert part iv into PrincipleEnactment

Offences

4 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.08.2018

ii. who evades or rejects to provide any information or a report required by this Enactment,

iii who neglects the instructions or terms or guidance or orders of the chairman without reasonablegrounds,

iv. who disturbs or obstructs any person in implementing or executing the powers, duties andfunctions assigned to him by this Enactment ,there under or an order made under that,

v. who violates any order or provision of this Enactment or made under that or /and willfullyevades/obstructs to act accordingly ,shall be a guilty of that offence.

27(b) If every person who violates provisions or orders of this Enactment is found to be a guiltyof that offence in a summary trial heard before a Magistrate ,he shall be punished with eitherdescription for a term not exceeding 01 year or with a fine of Rs.50000/= or with both.

PART V

Definitions

11. Sections 27 and 28 of Principle Enactment are hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the

Section given below.

28.In this Enactment unless the context otherwise requires, “Minister” means, Minister in Charge of the subject

of North Western Provincial Council

“Chief Secretary” means, Chief Secretary of North Western Province, “Secretary” means, Secretary of the Minister in Charge of the subject,

“Director of Provincial Education” means, Director of North Western Provincial Council,

“Commissioner of Co-operative Development “ means, Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment of North Western Province,

“Chairman” means, the Chairman of Human Resources Development Authority

“Executive Director” means, Executive Director of Human Resources Development Authority,“General Manager” means, the General Manager of Human Resources Development Authority,

“Provincial Council” means, North Western Provincial Council“Province” means, North Western Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

29.If there is an inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil, Sinhala text will prevail.

09-366

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Repeal Sections 27 and 28 and insert part V

Inconsistency

Punishments

Definitions