I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2135$61 - 2019 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'08'09No. 2135/61 - FRIDAY, AUGUST 09, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A G 30708— 67 (08/2019)

MINISTRY OF POWER, ENERGY AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

National Energy Policy and Strategies of Sri Lanka

I, Ravi Karunanayake as the Minister of Power, Energy and Business Development do hereby publish the National EnergyPolicy & Strategies of Sri Lanka referred to in the following Schedule, prepared after reviewing and revising the NationalEnergy Policy and Strategies of Sri Lanka published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1553/10 of 10.06.2008 as approvedby the Government for the information of the general public.

RAVI KARUNANAYAKE,Minister of Power, Energy and Business Development.08th August, 2019.

NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY AND STRATEGIES OF SRI LANKA

MINISTRY OF POWER, ENERGY AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT - GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA

Sri Lanka has achieved several goals set in the National Energy Policy and Strategies (2008) in complete electrificationand renewable energy development. The main objective of the National Energy Policy and Strategies declared here is toensure convenient and affordable energy services are available for equitable development of Sri Lanka using clean, safe,

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20192A

sustainable, reliable and economically feasible energy supply. This Policy is formulated in alignment with the future goalsof Sri Lanka, current global trends in energy and the Goal 7 of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations.This policy will impact the vast realm of social, economic and environmental spheres and pave the way to realize thevision of Sri Lanka in achieving carbon neutrality and complete transition of all the energy value chains by 2050.This document also contains a Results Delivery Framework assigning responsibilities of meeting the stated policy goalsto relevant institutions. A draft of this National Energy Policy and Strategies was amended after being subjected to publicscrutiny and a review by a committee of experts related to the energy sector before publication.

Implementaion of this policy will be monitored and its impacts will be evaluated by a National Steering Committeeappointed by me, comprising of Chairpersons, General Managers and Director Generals of key energy sector agenciesand will also include representatives from such affiliate sectors as transport and environment. The Committee will berequired to meet at quarterly intervals and report implementation progress to the Cabinet of Ministers and is empoweredto co-opt any new members as deemed necessary to represent any relevant sector, This Committee will be chaired by theSecretary to the Ministry responsible for the subjects of power and energy.

The National Streering Committee will be assisted by a Technical Working Group in convening meetings and collation ofaction plans, progress information and other correspondence with agencies responsible as identified in the Results DeliveryFramework. The Committee appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of Power & Energy for the purpose of formulation ofNational Energy Policy & Strategies will function as the Technical Working Group.

The Policy superseeds all previous policies, strategies, plans and guidelines published from time to time. This Nationalenergy policy and implementing strategies will be in effect until it is reviewed in consideration of any major changes inthe external environment. Such policy reviews will be conducted at least once in six years. The Results Delivery Framework,alingned with the policy and strategies will be revised in two-year intervals.

NATIONAL ENERGY POLICY AND STRATEGIES OF SRI LANKA

August 2019

Preamble

Numerous are the achievements of the energy sector over the past few decades andnumerous are the impending challenges on the energy sector of Sri Lanka.Our nation has achieved complete electrification and fulfilled many other policy goals and milestones set in theNational Energy Policy & Strategies of Sri Lanka (2008).Sri Lanka is ranked high among the countries with a large share of renewable energy, with a strong commitment toretain this vital attribute of the nation’s economic resiliencein a world of diminishing energy security.This policy statement is meant to chart the future course of the energy sector of the country,which in turn will contribute towards a stable economy.

Emerging from decades of internal strife, the whole country has beenprovided with uninterrupted electricity supply.Large and small enterprises across the country are looking ahead for better and productive use of material and humanresources with the availability of electricity.Other forms of energy such as liquid and gaseous petroleum fuels too are delivered to the whole country, realizing thedream of providing access to modern forms of energy to all citizens.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20193A

The evolving structure of the economy suggests that Sri Lanka will continueits journey along the energy frugal economic development path,with a strong services sector accounting for more than 60% of the GDP.Nevertheless, great strides are being made to steer the economy towards a knowledge fuelled economy, which too willassist to keep the energy intensity of economy at current healthy levels.This policy will pave the way for Sri Lanka to emerge as a strong economy with lesser dependence on energy, in aworld constricted by frequent energy crises.

This policy will proactively transform the energy industry from a subsidy-burdened,survival-focused state to an innovation driven catalyser of the national economy,preparing the country for the global energy transition.The newfound economic freedom of citizens will create a conducive environmentto improve the quality of energy services to a level where cost reflectivity of pricespaid by the citizens will be accepted without any hesitation.This policy will also nurture the energy sector by strengthening the capability of sector professionals to manage theenergy sector efficiently and effectively to benefit all Sri Lankans in the long term.

Emerging role of renewable energy, amidst the ever-evolving technological capabilitiesand new levels of integration made possible by information and communications technologywill be recognized as one of the key thrusts to retainthe share of renewable energy in the national energy supply.Similarly, energy efficiency across the entire value chain will be improvedto keep the growth of energy demand at optimum levels.

This effort assures Sri Lanka’s unreserved commitment to fight the challengesposed by climate change by integrating efforts of all stakeholders of the energy industryto a focused, meaningful and a viable response to climate change.

1. Inroduction

Global energy industry has entered a decisive phase of transition, where an increasing number of supply options,newer energy carriers and the growing demand, contribute to increase the complexity of the industry. Sri Lankatoo, will face this transition during the next few decades, and the energy industry in transition will fuel thegrowing economy of the country, opening many frontiers and opportunities. This policy spells out ways andmeans of steering the energy sector in transition to power the nation and its social market economy,aiming athigher levels of stability, security, affordability and sustainability with the least environmental burden,and providea fertile ground for all public and private enterprises, homes and institutions to flourish in a future, whereenergy will not be a constraint.

Sri Lanka is ranked in the mid-range of United Nations Human Development Index, while the annual GDP percapita too is in the mid-range, at USD 4,065 (2017)1. The government’s drive to reach the upper middle-incomelevel within this decade intensifies the role of energy in Sri Lanka’s economy.As a nation embarking on aprogressive social market economy after a three decade-long conflict, a holistic approach to development isdesirable, compared with an incremental approach. An energy policy consistent with social and economicdevelopment goals is required owing to significant impacts of the energy sector on each social and economicactivity of the country.

Sri Lanka maintains a comparatively lower energy intensity of economy, using 0.47TJ of commercial energy toproduce onemillion LKR of GDP2. The challenge posed to Sri Lanka is to maintain the lower energy intensity,while accelerating the growth of the economy. Sri Lanka has reached the important milestone of 100%electrification, thereby fulfilling the goal of providing modern energy sources to all the citizens.

1. The World Bank http://data.worldbank.org/Country/Sri Lanka2. Sri Lanka Energy Balance 2016, Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20194A

Economic growth amidst universal access requires the energy supply capacity to be steadily increased. Thegrowth in demand can also be managed by improving the efficiency of energy conversion.Continued efforts tomaintain a low energy intensity status requires to be rewarded with a lower burden on the economy and theenvironment. Increased efforts on demand management through policy driven incentives are required to meetthis goal amidst high economic growth.

Upgrading the transport modes to more efficient systems along with transport infrastructure development andstimulating the use of other forms of energy beyond petroleum products through policy interventions would berequired to effectively manage energy use in transport, the largest consuming sector of commercial energy.

The relatively high share of renewable energy (RE) in the country’s primary energy portfolio is bound toprogressively reduce because the major portion of hydropower potential has already been tapped. With theshifting of household energy use toward fossil fuels, the growing demand for all forms of energy is increasinglybeing met with fossil fuels. Water resources serve multiple needs, power generation being the third priorityafter drinking water and agricultural demand, further complicating issues related to projects such as the MahaweliStage II development. A paradigm shift of policy is envisaged to defend and improve the share of renewables inthe primary energy supply from the level maintained at 55% during the last decade.

The National Energy Policy and Strategies present how Sri Lanka plans to meet the challenge of developing andmanaging the energy sector to ensure delivery of reliable, cost-effective, and competitively priced energyservices from diverse sources to fuel the social market economy.

Sri Lanka weathered many energy crises over the last few decades due to resilience garnered from many deeproots. These roots can be identified as the impressive use of biomass resources, year-round sunshine andhigher rainfall, combined with frugal lifestyle of her people and the small geographical expanse of the country.

Having nourished the national economy from these deep roots, Sri Lanka was first in the region to bare fruits,in terms of extending the coverage of the national electricity supply to serve the whole country with anuninterrupted supply. The reliability of energy systems has attracted services sector to the country, leveragingmore economic benefits to the country with the least possible input of energy. This has caused a structuralchange in the economy towards services, in sharp contrast to other developing economies experiencing steepgrowth in the energy intensity of economy.

Reliability and affordability of both indigenous and global energy supplies will be the most desirable ingredientin this economy in transition. The country is looking into a future where strong emphasis will be on developingthe increasingly competitive newly assessed resources for electricity generation such as wind and solar. Biomass,probably the most important energy resource, will play an even more valuable role by making a transformationto a convenient fuel for household use and a dependable resource for industrial thermal energy supply.

Sri Lanka desires to be elevated to an ‘energy empowered’ nation by developing strategies and conversiontechnologies to use the vast indigenous resources. Whilst continuous efforts will be made to strengthen thepetroleum sector from upstream resource development to downstream diversification, initiatives will be madeto elevate the status of electricity as a major energy carrier. Energy transition in the transport sector, fromliquid petroleum dominance to other energy carriers will be actively pursued. Electricity will take the pride ofplace in the quest for discovering new energy carriers, drawing resources from increasing amounts of indigenousresources, whilst securing supply routes for global resources. Whilst securing land resources for importantenergy infrastructure elements such as gas terminals, electricity generation sites and transmission corridors,energy storage will be taken as a prime carrier to transcend the space and time boundaries which constrained thetraditional energy systems.

Aligning Sri Lanka with Goal 7 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN, this policy wouldcontribute to achieve universal access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all by 2020, adecade ahead of theUN target. The policy will also contribute to reduce the dependence of Sri Lanka on fossilfuels to below 50% of the primary energy supply and to reduce the specific energy use across all end-uses by20% of 2015 level, by 2030. This policy will pave the way to realise the vision of Sri Lanka in achieving carbonneutrality and complete transition of all the energy value chains by 2050. The policy provides the necessaryspace for establishing key manufacturing industries supplying sustainable energy technologies to the local

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20195A

market and forge alliances with other developing countries through South-South cooperation by developingknowledge products and sustainable energy technologies in line with Goal 7 of the SDGs.

This policy document has three sections:

TheNational Energy Policy, stating the ten pillars of the policy frameworkImplementing Strategies, describing the specific strategies to implement the policyThe Results Delivery Framework, elaborating the specific actions, milestones and the institutions responsible

This policy supersedes all previous policies, strategies,plans and guidelines published from time to time. This nationalenergy policy and implementing strategies will be in effect until it is reviewed in consideration of any major changesin the external environment. Such policy reviews will be conducted at least once in six years. The Results DeliveryFramework, (separately published) aligned with the policy and strategies will be revised in two-year intervals.

2 The National Energy Policy

The primary objective of the energy policy is to ensure energy security through supplies that are cleaner,secure, economical and reliable, to provide convenient, affordable energy services to support socially equitabledevelopment of Sri Lanka. Policy guidelines such as, the ‘General Policy Guidelines on the Electricity Industry’as required under Sri Lanka Electricity Act No. 20 of 2009 statutorily required to be issued for each sub sector,are expected to be prepared and issued, based on this national energy policy.

Working through the conflicting demands from the security, equity and sustainability dimensions, known as theenergy trilemma, Sri Lanka today is seen to be moving away from the delicate balance of these three forces.The national energy policy is thus founded on ten pillars, rooted in the broad areas impacting the society,economy and the environment, in an effort to counter balance the forces through enhanced equity, security andsustainability, respectively.

1. Assuring Energy Security2. Providing Access to Energy Services3. Providing Energy Services at the Optimum Cost to the National Economy4. Improving Energy Efficiency and Conservation5. Enhancing Self Reliance6. Caring for the Environment7. Enhancing the Share of Renewable Energy8. Strengthening Good Governance in the Energy Sector9. Securing Land for Future Energy Infrastructure10. Providing Opportunities for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

This approach is graphically depicted below:

Energy Sustainability

1

2

9

6

7

8

Energy Security

3 4

5 10

Energy Equity

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20196A

The ten pillars are described in greater detail below

1) Assuring Energy SecurityPrimary and secondary energy supplies of the country will be secured to ensure continuity, adequacy andreliability.

2) Providing Access to Energy ServicesAccess to reliable, convenient, affordable, equitable and quality energy services will be provided to all citizensto improve their living standards and to engage in gainful economic activities.

3) Providing Energy Services at the Optimum Cost to the National EconomyEnergy services will be provided at the optimum long-term cost, to lower the burden on the national economyand to achieve competitiveness of locally produced goods and services in international markets.

4) Improving Energy Efficiency and ConservationEfficient use of energy will be promoted in all sectors and across the energy value chain, engaging both thesuppliers and users.

5) Enhancing Self RelianceIndigenous energy resources will be developed to the optimum levels to minimise dependence on importedresources, subject to resolving technical, economic, environmental and social constraints, with the objectiveof minimising the vulnerability of energy supplies to external situations.

6) Caring for the EnvironmentA meaningful contribution to climate change will be made by maintaining the low carbon intensity of the SriLankan energy sector. Adverse environmental and social impacts of energy services will be minimised to carefor the global and local environment.

7) Enhancing the Share of Renewable EnergyIndigenous renewable energy resources will be developed to the optimum level to attain sustainability and ahigher degree of resilience in the energy sector.

8) Strengthening Good Governance in the Energy SectorGovernance of the energy sector to be strengthened to realise accountability, fairness and transparency toachieve investor and consumer confidence. A stable policy environment will be ensured, and the regulatoryframework will be further strengthened to assure good governance in the energy sector.

9) Securing Land for Future Energy InfrastructureStrategic locations for establishing energy facilities and corridors which inter connect such facilities will beearmarked and secured in advance to ensure timely implementation of such facilities and to minimise adversesocial impacts.

10) Providing Opportunities for Innovation and EntrepreneurshipConsidering the limitation to the scale of markets available in Sri Lanka to breed technology intensive localbusinesses, the relatively large size of the energy sector will be utilised to nurture local entrepreneurship andinnovation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20197A

3. Implementing Strategies

The broad strategies to implement the national energy policy are detailed in this chapter, aligned with theaforementioned ten pillars:

3.1 Assuring Energy Security

Primary and secondary energy resources and supplies used in the country will be secured to maximise thecountry’s energy supply reliability, continuity and adequacy, and strategic independence by employing thestrategies:

3.1.1 Diversity in energy resources used in electricity generation will be ensured subject to economic,environmental, technological and operational requirements.

3.1.2 Considering the recent price profiles, natural gas would be the next fossil fuel option for the countryto broaden diversity.A liquefied natural gas(LNG) terminal of optimum size and technology wouldbe established at the most suitable location. Considering the impact to the country’s energy security,operation of the first terminal and LNG procurement shall be kept under state control.

3.1.3 Global diversification of energy sources will be pursued to safeguard the supply chain against externalgeo-political uncertainties.

3.1.4 Percentage installed power generation capacity from a single imported fuel shall not exceed 50%of the total installed firm capacity to safeguard against geopolitical uncertainties and fuel priceshocks.

3.1.5 Adequacy and reliability of transmission and distribution infrastructure in both electricity and fuelsupply networks to meet any future contingencies will be ensured.

3.1.6 Regular risk and assessments will be conducted to identify and mitigate possible internal, externalcontingencies that could critically affect the performance of the energy sector.

3.1.7 Indigenous petroleum resources will be explored using geophysical surveys, and the nationalpetroleum data repository will be strengthened. Such resources will be strategically developed tointroduce into all sectors including power generation, transport, household and industry, as well asto generate futuristic cleaner energy sources such as hydrogen and gas to liquids (GTL).

3.1.8 National requirements of electricity will be met with proven generation technologies and fuel sources.

3.1.9 Maintenance of strategic fuelreserves in strategic locations in the country will be made mandatoryfor all key players in electricity and petroleum industries.

3.1.10 Local crude oil refining capacity will be expanded to optimally satisfy the country’s demand fordifferent petroleum products.

3.1.11 Viable cross-border electricity transmission and cooperation with countries in the region will bepursued on the basis of multilateral power pool operation

3.2 Providing Access to Energy Services

Access to reliable, convenient, affordable, equitable and quality energy services will be provided to allcitizens to enhance their living standards and to engage in gainful economic activities, by employing thestrategies:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20198A

3.2.1 Access to electricity using either on-grid or off-grid sources and to modern petroleum productswill be ensured to all citizens in the country.

3.2.2 Small and medium enterprises will be supported by socialising part of initial electricity serviceconnection costs via tariffs.

3.2.3 Households which remain unconnected to national grid due to un-affordability, even after gainingaccess, will be connected using innovative financing schemes.

3.2.4 New productive uses for electricity in agriculture, rural and primary industries will be encouragedwith emphasis on empowerment of women and youth.

3.2.5 The supply quality of energy services by electricity, gas and oil utilities will be improved throughadoption of appropriate technical and commercial quality standards.

3.2.6 Minimum service quality standards will be introduced for common utility services. Additionally,premium services will be offered to customers who are willing to pay for such higher servicequality levels.

3.2.7 Equipment used in the energy supply chain will be standardised to ensure compatibility, ease ofintegration and safety of energy supply.

3.2.8 Considering the superior reliability, increased safety and lower interference with tree cover,electricity distribution networks will be gradually placed underground in urban areas and convertedto insulated aerial bundled conductors (ABC) in other areas.

3.2.9 Pipeline transport and vehicle-based transport will be promoted in downstream gas and oil supplysector to improve access by industries and households to feed appropriate distribution networks atthe user end.

3.2.10 Smart grid technologies will be introduced, and smart metering will be deployed for enhancedcustomer experience, and to automate power system management, reducing manual interventionwhere such interventions are uneconomical.

3.2.11 Mobile and internet-based services will be introduced to enhance customer convenience.

3.3 Providing Energy Services at the Otimum Cost to the National Economy

Energy Service will be provided at the optimum long-term cost, to lower the burden on the nationaleconomy and to achieve competitiveness of locally produced goods and services in international marketsby employing the strategies

3.3.1 Power plants identified in the Long-Term Generation Expansion Plan will be implemented asscheduled.

3.3.2 Receiving, processing, storage, transport and distribution capacity requirements of the petroleumsector will be identified in long term planning and will be developed in time to ensure adequatesupply of petroleum products.

3.3.3 Rational energy pricing strategies, based on the principles of cost reflectivity across the energyvalue chain will be adopted through existing and new regulatory mechanisms, to ensure financialhealth of sector utilities and to discourage wasteful energy use.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.20199A

3.3.4 The government will identify and provide transparently funded subsidies to target groups of energyusers in household, industrial and commercial sectors,that deserve special consideration owing totheir economic standing and contribution to national economic development priorities.

3.4 Improving Energy Efficiency and Conservation

Energy systems will be effectively managed to ensure efficient use and conservation of energy. Efficientuse of energy by all concerned, from utilities to final customers will be pursued employing the strategies:

3.4.1 The national energy efficiency improvement and conservation programme will be furtherstrengthened engaging all stakeholders in household, industrial and commercial sectors.

3.4.2 Energy efficiency improvement and conservation will be promoted through minimum energyperformance standards and labelling of appliances, and by introducing green procurement processesin state and private sector organisations.

3.4.3 A home productivity improvement programme, with energy efficiency and conservation as the centraltheme will be launched to empower women.

3.4.4 Taxation and other incentives and disincentives to support the market for efficient technologieswill be introduced.

3.4.5 Expert energy advisory services will be offered through state and private sector service providersto promote energy efficiency, conservation and energy cost reduction across all end use sectors.

3.4.6 Water resources will be recognized as a valuable indigenous energy resource.Efficient use of waterby competing users at places where there is a high opportunity cost to water will be enhanced.

3.4.7 Conversion efficiency of power generation facilities will be enhanced.

3.4.8 A strategic plan for street lighting will be formulated to ensure proper management of street lightingthat will enhance the safety of road users, and to contribute to energy conservation with a betteraesthetic sense.

3.4.9 Automated demand response technologies will be considered as a main demand-side managementstrategy.

3.4.10 Losses in energy delivery networks will be reduced to optimum levels.

3.4.11 Losses incurred in petroleum refining will be reduced by continuous technology infusion with newinvestments.

3.4.12 Transport fuel use in petroleum distribution will be reduced by utilising regional storage facilitiesconnected with the rail-based supply network.

3.4.13 Virtual offices and video/teleconferencing will be promoted by making necessary changes toorganisational working culture as a strategy to minimize physical movement.

3.4.14 Transport energy use will be reduced by undertaking ‘avoid, shift and improve’ strategies with astrong focus on high quality public transport and intelligent traffic management solutions.

3.4.15 Economic activities will be developed in dense clusters to benefit from lower logistic costs andimproved synergies in special zones identified as smart cities, served by smart grids.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201910A

3.4.16 Sustainable neighbourhoods will be used as a key design element in urban development with theobjective of reducing energy demand.

3.4.17 Energy efficiency will be a primary concern in retrofits, and new building designs will be evaluatedfor their energy performance on a mandatory basis.

3.4.18 Smart technologies, including smart buildings and complete conversion to smart metering will beensured to convey price signals to customers, altering the demand profile to reduce the overall costof supply.

3.4.19 Fuel efficiency of vehicles would be a key consideration in deciding applicable taxes on vehicles toencourage a higher efficiency vehicle fleet.

3.5 Enhancing Self Reliance

Indigenous energy resources will be developed to optimum levels to minimise dependence on importedresources, subject to resolving technical, economic, environmental and social constraints, with theobjective of minimising the vulnerability of energy supplies to external situations and to attain a higherdegree of resilience in the energy sector, employing the strategies:

3.5.1 Oil and natural gas resources of the country will be explored. Commercial scale exploitation willbe strategically phased, giving due consideration to higher future value and possible use in thefuture as a locally available fuel source to derive cleaner futuristic energy sources such as hydrogen.

3.5.2 Indigenous mineral resources such as Thorianite and other similar nuclear fuels with commercialresource potential will be explored, assessed and kept ready for development at the appropriatetime when conversion technologies are available.

3.5.3 Renewable energy resources will be exploited based on a priority order arrived at, consideringeconomics, technology and quality of each resource.

3.5.4 Availability of biomass will be enhanced by establishing dedicated energy plantations or plantationswith residue as a potential fuel, in prescribed biomass energy development areas. Commercialavailability of biomass and biomass-based fuel products will be encouraged for utilisation in industrialthermal applications and household use. Processed biomass as a fuel source will be facilitatedthrough efficient collection of existing resources, processing, value addition, storage anddistribution, and nurturing biomass supply chains.

3.5.5 Improved biomass conversion devices such as cook stoves that are free from the generalinconvenience associated with traditional biomass-based cooking and offer an experience similarto commercial fuel-based cooking devices, will be introduced and promoted for household use.This strategy will help to retain the share of biomass as a fuel used for cooking applications and todiscourage migration to petroleum fuels owing to convenience.

3.5.6 Gradual diversification of transport energy in both rail and road transport from present oil dominanceto electricity will be encouraged to increase overall conversion efficiency and to relieve thedependence on liquid petroleum fuels as the sole transport fuel. Further, appropriate time of usetariffs will be offered to attract additional demand from electric vehicle charging to periods oflower demand, and additional demand so added will be strategically used to enhance the integrationof indigenous sources such as solar and wind.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201911A

3.5.7 A sizable fund will be channelled to the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Fund operated by the SEA byevoking provisions in the SEA Act for charging a cess on fossil fuel imports and a resource royaltyfrom renewable resources.Purposes of Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Fund will be broadened tomeet the requirements of sustainable energy, electricity and petroleum sectors.

3.5.8 Contribution of the rubber plantation industry as the major fuel wood supplier for thermal applicationswill be duly recognised and suitable incentives will be provided to enhance the expanse of rubberplantations.

3.6 Caring for the Environment

Natural environment of the country will be preserved, and a meaningful contribution will be made toaddress climate change, by adopting appropriate low emission processes and mitigation measuresemploying the strategies:

3.6.1 Environmental impacts of energy facilities will be minimised and mitigated using counter balancinginterventions such as carbon sequestration plantations. Existing hydropower catchments and landearmarked for future energy infrastructure too will be considered as potential land for suchplantations.

3.6.2 Impacts to the environment in the context of climate change due to the construction and operationof energy sector facilities will be minimised.

3.6.3 Energy supply from cleaner sources and technologies will be encouraged to minimise harm to thelocal and global environment, while taking into consideration both the impacts on the nationaleconomy and the long-term environmental benefits.

3.6.4 Indigenous petroleum and nuclear energy resources will be developed to the optimum level withsufficient environmental safeguards,by encouraging market demand for such resources.

3.6.5 National level plans will be implemented to utilise by-products from power generation with acommercial value, such as fly ash and waste heat.

3.6.6 Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) to global emission reduction goals will be made tomeet the national emission reduction obligations as agreed.

3.6.7 Social and environmental externalities in the local context pertaining to the energy sector will bestudied and factored into decision making.

3.6.8 Opportunities available under carbon trading mechanisms will be exploited and a proper mechanismwill be implemented to make use of the potential.

3.6.9 Waste to energy projects will be favourably considered owing to the positive contributions suchprojects make to dispose municipal solid waste, and any cost above the avoided cost of electricitywill be paid by the government/local authorities directly to the developer so as not to burden energyutilities.

3.6.10 Necessary Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) standards will be introduced and relevantregulations enforced, making it an offence for a person to operate any energy related infrastructurewithout complying with the prescribed HSE standards.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201912A

3.7 Enhancing the Share of Renewable Energy

Energy supply from renewable energy resources in the country’s energy mix will be increased to reducepressure on foreign exchange, as a means of engaging the local community in the energy industry, attainsustainability and to promote the use of environmentally friendly energy sources employing the strategies:

3.7.1 Long delays encountered in renewable energy development will be reduced through a centrallycoordinated project approval process.

3.7.2 Renewable energy investments for electricity generation will be realised through a competitivescheme to reduce the costs and to facilitate wider investor participation.

3.7.3 Transmission infrastructure will be strengthened to improve the absorption of electricity generationfrom renewable sources.

3.7.4 Distribution infrastructure will be upgraded with smart grid technologies to facilitate renewableenergy-based distributed generation.

3.7.5 Research will be conducted to overcome adverse impacts of renewable energy absorption to thepower system from intermittent sources such as wind and solar energy.

3.7.6 Effective forecasting technologies for wind, solar and rainfall will be introduced so that optimumuse of renewable resources could be realised.

3.7.7 Energy storage solutions will be encouraged for firming intermittent renewable sources, voltageand frequency regulation, local grid support, peak shaving and improving grid resilience.

3.7.8 Innovative financing schemes and financial instruments involving both public and private enterpriseswill be introduced to encourage renewable energy development.

3.8 Strengthening Good Governance in the Energy Sector

Good governance in all aspects of the energy sector shall be the guiding principle, and good governancein the energy sector will be strengthened to realise accountability, fairness and transparency to achieveinvestor and consumer confidence. A stable policy environment and regulatory frameworks will beestablished and further strengthened to assure good governance in the energy sector, employing thestrategies:

3.8.1 All sub sectors in the energy industry will be brought under respective regulatory framework.

3.8.2 Procurement of plant, equipment, crude oil and other fuels, as well as power purchase agreementsand similar concessions, will be made through a streamlined competitive bidding scheme ensuringtransparency,accountability and avoiding long term delays.

3.8.3 Capability of the energy sector professionals to meet challenges in the emerging competitiveenvironment will be enhanced by facilitating exchange programmes between similar entities inforeign countries and cross posting within Sri Lankan sector entities.

3.8.4 Digitalisation of the energy sector entities using an enterprise resource planning platform will betaken as a priority, spanning the whole length of the value chain from smart meters, addressableappliances and smart grids that allows further adoption of new technologies such as artificialintelligence (AI), internet of things (IoT) and distributed ledgers to drive efficiency, transparencyand optimisation of asset utilisation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201913A

3.8.5 A guideline on management of digital information to ensure security of digital information, coveringthe aspects of storing, use and management will be introduced.

3.8.6 Digitalisation of utility transactions will be used to secure and store data in cloud based centraldatabases and the data, information and knowledge thus assimilated in the energy sector will beindexed, catalogued and securely stored for future use and will be treated as knowledge assets.

3.8.7 A conducive environment shall be created for independent decision making in a transparent andaccountable manner, supported by the analyses performed using real time insights produced bydigitalisation.

3.8.8 Energy sector transactions will be reported by relevant entities to the SEA on a fixed annual schedule,through a working group of officials from key sector institutions to ensure timely publication ofthe Sri Lanka Energy Balance.

3.8.9 Indices which can assist the understanding of energy sector trends will be identified and included innational statistics to help evidence-based decision making.

3.8.10 Active engagement of citizens in the energy sector will be promoted using web portals linked toapplications for mobile phones, leading to awareness creation, grievance handling and education,targeting the closure of trust deficit, greater acceptance of energy sector projects, user safety andimproved end-user behaviour of energy services.

3.9 Securing Land for Future Energy Infrastructure

Considering limitation to land with specific attributes that are required to develop certain technologiesand considering the extensive financial losses incurred in the past owing to shifting of sites to locatepower plants, strategic locations to establish future energy infrastructure will be earmarked and securedin advance to ensure timely implementation of such facilities and to minimise adverse social impacts,employing the strategies:

3.9.1 Suitable sites to locate future energy infrastructure such as coal, natural gas and nuclear powerplants, refineries and terminals will be strategically earmarked in advance following preliminaryfeasibility studies, so that the public can avoid using such sites, resulting in minimal relocation andsocial impacts at the time of actual development.

3.9.2 Best sites to locate large scale renewable energy infrastructure such as wind and solar farms wouldbe identified in advance and marked on a master plan so that they can be developed as largeconcentrated facilities in phases.

3.9.3 Corridors for petroleum and gas pipe transport and for backbone electricity transmission would beidentified, giving priority to shared corridors for the benefit of national infrastructure planning.Identified routes would be published for the purpose of giving advance information to the public.

3.9.4 Available corridors will be used to lay multiple pipelines and power transmission lines whereverpossible.

3.9.5 All existing and future underground utility infrastructure including electricity, water, communication,town gas and petroleum would be made available in a common mandatory geographic informationsystem (GIS) to facilitate optimal location of future underground cable routes and pipe transporttraces.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201914A

3.9.6 Roadside utility infrastructure corridors including electricity distribution, sewer, water,communication and gas supply shall be coordinated with transport infrastructure, in such a mannerthat clear demarcation of ownership, flexibility of maintenance, and room for expansion would beensured.

3.10 Providing Opportunities for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Considering the limitation to the scale of markets available in Sri Lanka to breed technology intensivelocal businesses, the relative vastness of the energy sector will be utilised to nurture local entrepreneurshipand innovation by actively engaging the strategies:

3.10.1 Electricity will be recognised as the dominant energy carrier of the future, and strategic ventures toutilise local resources in energy conversion and storage equipment will be nurtured as anindustrialisation thrust.

3.10.2 Development of novel information and communications technology (ICT) applications suchasforpower system automation, remote control, distributed real time event and data acquisitionsystems, and smart metering will be encouraged.

3.10.3 Sri Lankan enterprises will be encouraged to engage in energy sector infrastructure development.

3.10.4 Research and development on introducing, adopting and implementing new and emerging renewablefuel sources,efficient energy conversion and end use technologies will be promoted.

3.10.5 Innovation will be facilitated by providing protection to intellectual property, safeguarding the sameuntil commercialisation and by nurturing nascent technologies through financial incentives and taxbenefits.

3.10.6 Indigenous knowledge and capacities required for energy sector development will be realised.

3.10.7 Potential offered by vehicle energy storage systems (ESS) will be studied considering ESS as alocal standby energy storage device, deploying those as an automated demand response (ADR)option and a load profile management too.

3.10.8 Small scale on-grid distributed and off-grid stand-alone applications using renewable energy withlocal value addition will be encouraged as an economic development thrust.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201915A

4. Results Delivery Framework

This chapter describes the targets and likely timeframes associated with expected policy intentsand the assignment of responsibilities of realisation of policy intents.They are to be reviewedin two-year intervals and re-stated for the period ahead.

4.1 Assuring Energy Security

To execute strategies identified to realise energy security, the following targets andmilestones will be met by the institutions to which responsibilities are assigned.

1a Feasibility of cross border electricity transfer with countries in the region will bestudied and documented by end 2021.

1b Feasibility of the Sapugaskanda oil refinery expansion project will be evaluatedby end-2020undertaking a study to determine the optimum capacity, and apreliminary investigation on establishing a second refinery will be undertaken bymid-2021 by the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation.

1c Every player in the petroleum subsector and all grid connected thermal powerplants shall jointly maintain a strategic fuel reserve equivalent to a minimum 30days’ consumption at any given time. The Petroleum Corporation and the CEBshall be jointly responsible to agree on targets for local storage capacity to bedeveloped and maintained by either party. All future power plant specificationsmust contain appropriate storage capacities to be maintained locally.

1d A high-level standing committee to be titled as ‘Energy Sector Risk AssessmentPanel’to be established with sufficient representation from key sectors by end-2019to assess possible internal and external contingencies that could criticallyaffect the performance of the energy sector. Members of this committee mustalso include co-opted specialists on the subject of risk assessment and be giventhe required training on how to identify such risks.This panel must meetperiodically and identify such contingencies based on probability-impact analysisand advise sector agencies to prepare plans to mitigate impacts of the same.Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject of electricity shall be responsibleto appoint and convene this panel.

1e An inventory of indigenous energy resources, both renewable and non-renewable,will be developed and published by SEA and PRDS by end-2020.Airborne gravity/magnetic data will be acquired and processed by end 2019 and 2D/3D seismic data in selected locations in Mannar and Cauvery Basins will becompleted by 2022.

4.2 Providing Access to Energy Services

To ensure access to reliable, convenient, affordable, equitable and quality energy servicesto all citizens to enhance their living standards and to engage in gainful economicactivities, the following targets and milestones will be met by institutions to whichresponsibilities are assigned;

2a To encourage prospective small and medium scale industries and businesses, theinitial cost of obtaining an electricity connection, which may be considerable atpresent compared with the capital cost of the business, will be reduced by offeringa special concessionary package under which the entire cost of the transformerfor contract demands up to 100kVA will be waived-off and be socialised through

Responsibility

MoPE

CPC

CPC/CEB

MoPE

SEA/PRDS

CEB/LECO

Responsibility

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201916A

distribution tariffs. This should be fully implemented from January-2021by CEB/LECO, accompanied with an appropriate campaign giving wide publicity throughmedia.

2b The initial cost in providing a new connection to recover infrastructure cost byelectricity distribution utilities will be completely phased out by end-2022, to allcategories of customers.Such costs will be socialised through distribution tariffs,aiming at improving the country’s rank below 50, in ‘ease of doing business’ index.

2c Optional ‘same day’ service connections to households and other retail customersto be provided on the payment of a premium fee for any prospective customer bymid-2020.Similarly, a portfolio of other cost recovery services shall be offeredat a premium for customers who are in need for expeditious service delivery.Timeline for regular service will be subject to codes on commercial qualityspecified by PUCSL.

2d Commercial supply of biomass and biomass-based fuel products will be doubledto reach one million tonne per year for using industrial thermal applications andhouseholds through the establishment of 20,000 hectares of biomass plantationswithin the period 2020-2023as an initiative of SEA.Government land, softfinancing and other fiscal incentives will be offered to businesses that providefuel wood including dedicated energy plantations and other commercial plantations.

2e To encourage improved, convenient, commercial biomass fuel products andconversion technologies for household use, SEA shall ensure that fiscal incentivesare provided to entrepreneurs who are engaged in the manufacture and distributionof equipment using such technologies (e.g. improved cook stoves and mini-gasifiers)by end-2020. SEA shall ensure a minimum 5% penetration of improvedstoves using commercialised biomass fuels by 2021.

2f Supply quality standards of fuels supplied by petroleum utilities will be determinedand enforced on a voluntary basis by mid-2020 and on mandatory basis by end2021 by PUCSL, and quality test reports will be published.

2g Supply and service quality standards of energy services by the utilities will bedetermined and enforced on voluntary basis by end 2020 and on mandatory basisfrom end 2021 by PUCSL.

2h All new low voltage distribution networks will use all-insulated ABC withimmediate effect. Low voltage overhead electricity distribution networks outsideurban areas will be completely converted to all-insulated ABC by 2025. Distributionnetworks in urban areas will be converted to an underground network by 2030.

2i A technical audit covering the whole value chain of the utilities will be carriedout. Specifications, status and standards of key equipment will be recorded, and astandardisation programme will be launched within 2020 by the CEB and the LECO.

2j Feasibility of extending and introducing new pipeline transport facilities for bothliquid and gaseous fuels to serve dense clusters of industrial and residential userswill be studied by 2021.

2k Five pilot projects, covering the five distribution licensees will be launched bythe CEB and the LECO within 2020 to identify smart grid and smart meteringtechnologies which can deliver value to the country.

CEB/LECO

CEB/LECO

SEA

SEA

PUCSL

CEB/LECO

CEB/LECO

CEB/LECO

PUCSL

CPC/PRDS

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201917A

2l Smart meters and pre-paid meters shall be offered on-demand to any customerby mid-2020.

2m At least 50% of all standard services offered by the CEB and the LECO to bemade optionally available through mobile and internet platforms too, includingpayments and tracking of progress, by mid-2020 so that customers are not requiredto visit utility offices to initiate such services. By end-2021, all standard servicesto be offered optionally via mobile and internet.

4.3 Providing Energy Supply Services at the Optimum Cost to the National Economy

To ensure that energy services are provided at the optimum long-term cost to lower theburden on the national economy, the following targets and milestones will have to bemet by the institutions to which responsibilities are assigned;

3a A transparent pricing methodology for electricity and fossil fuel products will bedeveloped and implemented by mid-2020 by the CEB, the CPC and other sectorplayers through a regulatory mechanism established by the PUCSL.

3b The life-line electricity tariff will be limited only to low-user household customersusing less than 30kWh per month. A study will be conducted by MoPE in 2020 todecide other target groups of energy users that deserve special consideration,the subsidy amount and the source of funds.

3c A short-term and medium-term planning mechanism, and a continuous planningprocedure will be established for the petroleum sector, including both liquid andgaseous fuels by end 2019. First plan to be issued in 2020.

4.4 Improving Energy Efficiency and Conservation

Energy systems will be efficiently managed and operated while ensuring efficientutilisation and conservation of energy. The following targets and milestones will haveto be met by the institutions to which responsibilities are assigned.

4a Specific energy use in end-user activities will be reduced by 10% of 2015 levelby 2023as part of the national energy efficiency improvement and conservationprogramme, saving 1,243GWh of grid electricity generation by 2023.

4b Minimum energy performance standards for LEDs and energy labelling for air-conditioners, personal computers, refrigerators, ceiling fans, linear fluorescentlamps/ballasts and induction motors will be enforced by mid-2020.

4c Penetration of efficient, low smoke, low soot biomass cook stoves will beincreased to 10% of households by 2022. Processed, commercialized biomass-based fuels used in such stoves will be made widely available across the retailmarket by creating an enabling environment.

4d ‘Energy Manager’ scheme will be implemented on a mandatory basis by end 2019todesignated users and extended to the remaining institutional users by 2020.

4e Reduced duty and taxation of efficient equipment supported by an accelerateddepreciation scheme will be offered to building renovation and retrofittingindustry to improve the energy efficiency of the existing building stock by 2020.

CEB/LECO

CEB/CPC/PUCSL

MoPE

MoPRD

SEA

CEB/LECO

Responsibility

Responsibility

SEA

SEA

SEA

SEA

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201918A

4f A differential taxation scheme for commercial buildings will be introduced, basedon a simplified energy utilisation index by end 2020. A similar scheme to supportthe market for efficient technologies will be introduced by end-2020, through agreen procurement process led by the state sector.

4g Power generation facilities will be subjected to a thorough energy audit to evaluategenerator efficiencies and efficiency of auxiliary systems, and a sector-wideefficiency improvement programme will be launched in 2020.

4h A lighting standard for street lighting, to cater to rural, urban and major roadillumination including other public space lighting requirements will be introducedand implemented on a mandatory basis within 2020.

4i A pilot scale automated demand response project will be implemented by mid-2021, and the techno-economic viability of the intervention will be documentedfor scaling up as appropriate.

4j Overall system losses in the electricity grid will be reduced to 7.5% of netgeneration by 2020.

4k Reactive power management will be further intensified by introducing a schemeto discourage demand for reactive energy by end users through an appropriatevolume-based fee.

4l Modal share of mass transport will be enhanced by a margin of 10%compared tothe 2016 share by 2023 by adopting avoid, shift and improve strategies andintelligent multimodal transport management solutions for major cities in thecountry, by Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation.

4m At least 30% of all government institutional head offices and regional head officesto have teleconferencing facilities to hold tele-meetings by 2021. All maingovernment offices must have teleconferencing facilities by 2020. The participationof officers, who require more than one hour of travel time to participate at meetingsmust be discouraged from attending physically and be connected viateleconferencing facilities established at all ministries from end 2019.

4n All routine services offered at government agencies that do not require physicalpresence must be made available via internet or mobile phone to minimize transportenergy use from 2020.

4o A performance-based energy efficiency building code for commercial buildingswill be made mandatory by end 2019and a voluntary scheme for domestic sectorwill be introduced by end 2019.

4p Incorporation of building management systems with a focus on energy managementand future opportunities in smart grid driven automated demand response will bemade a mandatory planning criterion for all commercial developments by 2020bythe UDA.

SEA

CEB

MoPE

LECO

CEB/LECO

CEB/LECO

MoT&CA

MoPA&M

MoPE

SEA

MoM&WDand UDA

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201919A

4.5 Enhancing Self Reliance

Indigenous energy resources will be developed to the optimum levels to minimisedependence on imported resources and to attain a higher degree of resilience in theenergy sector. The following targets and milestones will have to be met by the institutionsto which responsibilities are assigned.

5a Feasibility studies on the use of natural gas/renewable energy-based hydrogenand GTL in transport and other sectors will be carried out by 2022.

5b Renewable energy resources will be exploited based on a priority order arrivedat, considering economics, technology and quality of resource. Wind is identifiedas the second most promising renewable energy resource after hydropower andhighest priority is given to develop wind to realize a minimum 20% share ofelectricity generated from renewable energy sources excluding major hydro, by2022by the SEA in association with relevant public and private sector players.

5c At least 10,000 hectare of unproductive land will be prescribed as biomass energydevelopment areas, and leased to developers by the SEA starting from 2020 overa period of 5 years to develop as commercial timber cum fuel wood plantations.

5d Biomass supply chains in five regions will be supported through improvedcollection of biomass residue, mixed cropping and certification of sustainableextraction for a three-year duration until they reach commercialisation through apilot project by 2020 by the SEA.

5e The most widely used suburban rail corridors between Colombo and the Airport,Avissawella, Negombo, Panadura and Veyangodawill be upgraded and electrifiedby mid-2023, and other viable railways in provincial city suburbs will be upgradedand electrified by 2025.

5f At least 20% of all new light vehicle registrations shall be electric vehicles in2022. At least 25 new public electric vehicle charging stations with DC rapidcharging capability will be established at strategic locations by the CEB/LECOby 2020. SEA will encourage the private sector to set up their own chargingstations to complement the CEB/LECO efforts, by securing fiscal incentives tothe industry.

4.6 Caring for the Environment

A meaningful contribution to climate change will be made by maintaining the low carbonintensity of Sri Lankan energy sector. Adverse environmental and social impacts ofenergy services will be minimized to care for the global and local environment byachieving the following targets and milestones by the institutions to whichresponsibilities are assigned;

6a The CEB is to reduce incremental carbon footprint of electricity due to futurecoal power plant additions by reducing GHG emission levels using carbonsequestration plantations. A feasibility study will be done by the CEB in 2020,outlining possible sequestration plantation options, land availability and financialanalysis.

Responsibility

SEA/PRDS

SEA

SEA

SEA

MoT&CA

CEB/LECO/SEA

CEB

Responsibility

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201920A

6b Stack emissions of energy sector facilities will be constantlymonitored and reported in the public domain by 2020, to manageand reduce emission burden from the energy sector.

6c A closed loop storage and distribution system will be establishedgradually by the CPC starting from 2020 for lighter fuels withhigh potential for vaporisation.

6d HSE standards for all energy sector utilities will be introducedby 2020 and fully implemented by 2022.

4.7 Enhancing the Share of Renewable Energy

Renewable energy resources in the country’s energy mix will beincreased, meeting the targets and milestones;

7a An advisory committee comprising ministry officials in-chargeof different line agencies/custodians of land resources will beappointed to coordinate the approval of renewable energyprojects and acquisition of land resources for such projects byend 2019.7b After careful analysis of the network constraints, dispatchoptions and resource characteristics, a comprehensive renewableenergy grid integration plan will be published by the CEB from2020 and periodically updated.

7c A fully-fledged competitive bidding scheme for renewableenergyinvestments will be implemented through a resourcedevelopment programme to realise a pipeline of ‘ready to invest’projects by mid-2020 by the SEA, realising 20% of generationwitha cumulative renewable energy generation capacity of 1,600MW by 2023.

7d Applications received by the SEA when feed-in tariffs were onoffer, but held up due to the termination to feed in tariffs, whichare at various stages of the approval process will be channeledto a competitive bidding model by using suitable interimapproaches such as offering project proponents preferentialtreatments when they were opened up forcompetition considering the maturity of a project, investmentsmade, etc. A list of such alternate options will be jointlydeveloped by the CEB and the SEAby mid 2020for differenttechnologies, considering their inherent attributes so that all suchprojects in abeyance could be expeditiously developed within acompetitive bidding framework by end 2023.

7e Advanced forecasting systems for hydro, solar and wind energywill be established by the CEB along with other relevant lineagencies by end-2020.

MoMD&E

CPC/LIOC

MoPE/MoPRD

MoPE

CEB

SEA/CEB

SEA/CEB

CEB/SEA

Responsibility

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201921A

7f A premium green tariff/green energy certification package will be offered to allinterested electricity customer segments as an optional tariff and a portion ofincremental proceeds will be used for renewable energydevelopment by creditingto the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Fund.

4.8 Strenthening Good Governance in the Energy Sector

A stable policy environment will be established and regulatory frameworks will be furtherstrengthened to assure good governance in the energy sector by achieving the followingtargets and milestones by the institutions to which responsibilities are assigned.

8a Ministry in charge of the function of petroleum resource development shall ensurethat necessary legislation for upstream petroleum development are enacted bymid-2020, including necessary legislation to establish an upstream petroleumdevelopment regulatory mechanism.

8b Establish a regulatory framework and empower an independent regulatoryinstitution by enacting the necessary legislation to regulate downstream petroleumindustry, by end-2020.

8c Functional units of CEB to adopt independent financial reporting from financialyear 2019, in accordance with the Electricity Act 2009.

8d Digitalisation of the electricity utility sector will be launched by 2020, andcompleted through a phased approach by 2022, covering the whole value chainfrom the optimal operation of core assets to managing customer relationships.

8e A data governance policy for ensuring the proper management of digitalinformation of energy sector utilities will be introduced to ensure security, dataquality and privacy by mid-2020.

8f Reporting of energy sector transactions by key sector entities will be regularisedby appointing a working group under the leadership of the SEA by end 2019, andthe Sri Lanka Energy Balance for each year will be published by the SEA withinthe first six months after the end of each calendar year, commencing with that ofyear 2019.

8g All energy sector projects and investment opportunities will be identified anddocumented in self-standing project concept formats from 2020 by each agencyfor easy take-up by investors and development partners on a competitive basis.

8h Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) aligned with economic goals will be introducedfor energy utilities by end-2019, monitored and published by the respectiveMinistries from 2020.

8i Establish clear guidelines to implement public-private partnership in developingenergy infrastructure, by mid-2020.

8j Study and report the potential benefits and pre-requisites, and an action plan toestablish a wholesale market for electricity and to allow power wheeling in thetransmission and distribution network, by end-2020.

Responsibility

MoPE

MoPE/MoPRD

MoPE

CEB/LECO

MoPRD

CEB/LECO

MoPRD

MoPEMoPRD

MoPRD/MoPE

MoPE

MoPEMoPRD

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201922A

8k An application will be developed for mobile phone access by2020, to engage the end users to increase awareness on bestenergy options, record grievances, price trends and energyefficiency improvement by extending the online energy databasealready operated by the SEA

4.9 Securing Land for Future Energy Infrastructure

Strategic locations to establish future energy infrastructure will beearmarked and secured in advance to ensure timely implementation ofsuch facilities and to minimise adverse social impacts by achievingthe following targets and milestones by the institutions to whichresponsibilities are assigned.

9a A strategic facilities layout map, identifying suitable sites tolocate future energy infrastructure such as coal, natural gas andnuclear plants, refineries and terminals will be prepared by 2020in consultation with the National Physical Planning Departmentby a joint committee appointed for the purpose.

9b A master plan identifying the best sites to locate large scalerenewable infrastructure such as wind and solar farms would beformulated and published by end 2019with a development timehorizon 2020-2025.

9c Petroleum, gas pipe transport and backbone electricitytransmission line corridors that are to be developed during 2020- 2030 will be identified and published as a map by a jointcommittee by 2020.

9d Based on already available GIS elements, a national GIS databasedepicting existing and future underground utility infrastructureincluding electrical, water, communication and petroleum willbe established by 2020 by the CEB.

9e An inter-agency utility corridor coordination authority to resolveconflicts will be established by2020.

4.10 Providing Opportunities for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Considering the vastness of the sector, opportunities available forresearch and development, and local value addition in the energy sectorwhich can improve sector productivity will be actively pursued toengage the Sri Lankan innovators and entrepreneurs.

10a A 25% local preference will be granted to Sri Lankan enterprisesand joint ventures led by such enterprises to encourage suchenterprises to engage in energy sector infrastructuredevelopment,from2019.

10b A coordinated research and development network involving allresearch and development organisations will be established bythe SEA, assembling both industry and academia in a grand

SEA

MoPE

MoPE

LECO

Responsibility

CEB/CPC

CEB

SEA

Responsibility

SEA

MoPE

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201923A

alliance by mid-2020, and ten pilot projects on home grown renewable energyconversion technologies and ten energy efficiency improvement technologies willbe introduced by the SEA by mid-2021, protecting intellectual properties amasseduntil commercialisation.

10c Smart grid pilot projects will be deployed in five identified locations todemonstrate the possibilities of better management of generation, transmissionand distribution assets, to allow new and present customers to use electricity inthe most efficient manner and to allow large scale/deep penetrated deploymentof dispersed renewable energy generators using advanced ICT in measurement,control and management of electrical grids by end 2020 bythe CEB/LECO.

10d An automated demand response pilot project will be implemented, and impactsdocumented to allow economic evaluation of the same as a future generation optionby end 2021,by the CEB/LECO.

10e Digitised data accumulated from the advent of digital technologies in utilityoperations will be retained, processed and used as a knowledge asset.

10f Indigenous knowledge and capacities required for energy sector development willbe nurtured by introducing a contribution-based reward scheme to encourageindividual efforts by sector professionals and pooling of knowledge resourcesacross the energy sector by 2020.

GLOSSARY

advisory committeea statutory committee comprising of experts on a particular subject area appointed to provideadvice to the board of management of the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority

automated demand responseautomatic control systems that respond to supply conditions or contingencies and act to alterthe customer demand to reduce overall cost of supply

building management systemsa control system in a building that manages the energy converting equipment with an objectiveof improved energy efficiency and demand management

carbon neutralitycondition of balancing the carbon emissions released to the atmosphere by human activitiesand absorbed from the atmosphere

carbon sequestrationnatural process by which atmospheric carbon dioxide is absorbed by plants throughphotosynthesis and held in a solid form for long durations

demand side managementmanaging the demand for electricity in electricity systems by interventions in the end userfacilities

CEB/LECO

CEB/LECO

CEB/LECO

SEA

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201924A

dispatchsystem operators or ‘dispatchers’ control the output of grid connected generating units to meet system demand.This process of controlling is called generator dispatch. If controlling is by way of an instruction, it is termeda ‘dispatch instruction’

dispatchabledispatchable generation refers to sources of electricity that can be started/stopped and the power output adjustedas and when requested by system operators

distribution infrastructureelectricity network operating under 33kV connecting customer loads to the national grid

downstreamsegment of the petroleum fuel supply chain which distribute refined products to customers

electrificationproviding access to electricity distribution lines. Sri Lanka provided access to all potential customers, of whichabout 99.5% have an active electricity connection

energy carrierA substance or phenomenon that contain energy in different forms which can be converted into a usable energyform to deliver an energy service when required or stored for later use

energy crisesshortage of supply or conversion capacity, quantities or finances to serve the customer demand for energy

energy intensity of economyquantity of energy required to produce one unit of value addition to the economy

energy servicesfunctions performed using any form of energy which are means to obtain or facilitate the delivery of work, adesired service or a state

energy transitionthe trend of lessening dependence on finite energy resources and making efforts to increase the use of renewableenergy

firm (power generating) capacityPower generation capacity that can be guaranteed to be available for dispatch by system operators. Sourcessuch as mini hydro, solar PV and wind do not fall under this definition as their capacity is determined by theavailability of the respective resource at the time. ‘Run of the river’ hydropower plants having sufficient storageat their regulating head ponds to operate for at least a few hours are considered as firm capacity as the systemoperators can plan the times they are to be dispatched.

fly ashlighter ash from a combustion process, typically trapped by an emission control system

fossil fuelsenergy resources that do not undergo cyclic replenishment within a human time scale

green energy certificationcertification of buildings or energy converting systems that meet certain specified standards of efficiency orcontributions to pre-defined sustainability indices

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201925A

green procurement processesprocurement processes in which credit is given to the degree of contribution to sustainable conversion and useof energy and other resources

green tariffa pricing structure for electricity that includes a premium to meet incremental costs of using emergingtechnologies that have lower irreversible impacts on society and the environment than others

hydropower catchmentssurface of earth which receives rainwater and feed the water into a reservoir or a river, to feed one or severalhydropower plants

Indigenous energyrenewable and non-renewable energy resources that are found within the territory or the exclusive economiczone of Sri Lanka

installed power generation capacityrated capacity of output of a power plant

intermittenceinherent nature of variation of the supply of energy sources with time

liquefied natural gasliquefied form of natural gas, typically stored in insulated vessels cooled down to minus (-) 160 degrees Celsius

load profilethe pattern of using electricity, by a customer or a region or a country

local preferencea percentage limit up to by which a priced bid from a local bidder is accepted, in preference to a bid from aninternational bidder

low carbon intensitylow use of fossil fuels to supply an energy service

low voltage400 volt three-phase or 230 volt single-phase

Long Term Generation Expansion Plana long-term plan showing details of the power plants to be made available for future use, complied and publishedby the Ceylon Electricity Board

natural gasgas produced from oil fields or gas fields, contains mostly methane

system (network) lossesenergy losses incurred in the supply of electricity in transmission and distribution through the national electricitygrid

off-gridusers and electricity generating systems serving such users without being connected to the national electricitygrid

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201926A

on-gridelectricity generating systems or users connected to the national electricity grid

power pool operationa system in which generators pledge capacity available for a period ahead, to which buyers (typically distributioncompanies or customers) bid to purchase electricity

primary energyenergy as it occurs in its natural form, includes both renewable and non-renewable forms

proven generation technologieselectricity generation technologies that have been developed to a level of wide commercial use

renewable energyenergy resources that undergo cyclic replenishment within a human time scale

secondary energyenergy available in a form different to its origin as a result of some energy conversion process

smart grida group of technologies deployed to increase responsiveness of power grids to better manage its generation,transmission and distribution assets, to allow new and present customers to use electricity in the most efficientmanner and to allow large scale / deep penetrated deployment of dispersed NRE generators using advanced ICTin measurement, control and management of electrical grids to reduce overall cost of electricity andenvironmental burden of electricity systems on the long run by differing investments and reducing operationalcosts

social and environmental externalitiessocial and environmental impacts and costs resulting from any economic or commercial activity

social market economya socioeconomic model combining a free market capitalist economic system alongside social policies thatestablish both fair competition within the market and special treatment to vulnerable sections of the society

socialized through distribution tariffscosts not charged to individual customers but included in utility assets, for which cost are allowed to be averagedacross all customers

Sri Lanka Energy Balanceannual compilation of energy sector statistics published by Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority

strategic fuel reservesquantities of fuel stored for later use, in anticipation of breakdown of regular supplies to a particular energyfacility, location or region

sub sectora segment within a sector which can be described based on certain common attributes

supply chainentities, facilities, processes, information, and resources involved in delivering a product or service from apoint of occurrence to an end user

Sustainable Development Goalsa universal call to action to achieve seventeen global goals to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that allpeople enjoy peace and prosperity by the United Nations general assembly in 2015

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 09.08.201927A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

transmission infrastructureelectricity network operating above 33kV connecting generation facilities to the distribution grid

universal accessaccess to modern energy sources, usually means that an electricity distribution line is available within 100m ofthe potential customer premises

upper middle-incomeThe World bank defines an upper middle-income country to be where the gross national income is betweenUSD3,896 to USD12,055 per person

upstreamsegment of the petroleum fuel supply chain which involves exploration of resource sites, mining and deliveryof extracted resources to refining facilities

variabilitychange of quantity of energy with time from a particular energy resource, attributed to a natural phenomenon

waste heatthermal energy intentionally or inadvertently lost from a combustion process

08 - 865