==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.20191A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

STATUTE OF REGISTRATION OF TRADING PLACES BEARING No. 04 OF 2019UNDER THE SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

I, UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA , Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development,Irrigation, Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying and Distribution and Trade and Cooperative Development ofSouthern Provincial Council hereby inform to the General Public that the statute of Registration of Trading Places No. 04 of2019 which had already been approved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approveddated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approval made dated 26.03.2019 by the SouthernProvincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,Minister of Agriculture, AgrarianDevelopment, Irrigation, Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying andDistribution and Trade and Cooperative Development ofSouthern Province Provincial Council.

01st day of April, 2019.4th Floor, Dakshinapaya, Labuduwa, Galle,At the Minister’s office, Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG4478 – 10 (04/2019)

wxl 2118$45 – 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod – 2019'04'09No. 2118/45 – TUESDAY, APRIL 09, 2019

2AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PRECEPT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRADING PLACES

No. 04 of 2019

This Precept is, to regularize the trading establishments that have not been incorporated within the SouthernProvince, to register the institutons and persons who conduct such establisments, to make provisons for allactivities associated with such regulation and to create regulations to rescind the Southern Province TradeNames Registration Precept No. 01 of 1991.

It is herewith enacted by the Southern Provincial Council of the Southern Province of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka:

1. This Precept shall be known as the Southern Province Trading Places Registration Precept No.04 of 2019 and shall come into effect when approved by the Governor of the Southern Province.

SECTION I

2. (1) All persons who carry out a business place of trade, not incorporated, within the SouthernProvince (hereinafter referred to as Places of Trading), should register under this Precept andconduct the trade with a relevant certificate.

(2) The Certificate so obtained for a place of trade under this article should be clearly exhibitedwithin the precinct of the place of business.

(3) As per this article the work procedures applicable, to register a place of business, to cancela registration granted, to specify the specimen forms applicable and to prescribe otherassociated activities connected to registration, should be according to the rules enacted bythe Minister under this Precept.

3. Those trading establishments or person/persons who have obtained Trade Name Certificates,prior to the date of activation of this precept and are conducting their trade, under SouthernProvince Trade Name Precept No. 01 of 1991, should be considered as having been registeredunder this precept. However, any change or cancellation that takes place after the date ofactivation of this precept should be instituted according to the provisions of this precept.

4. (1) It is not permitted to apply for a trade name containing words such as, the President,presidential, Nation, State, Sri Lanka, Money, Monetary or Urban or Incorporated or wordsin the opinion of the registrar may imply, or have room to imply, some relationship with aMunicipal Council, any other Local Government Institution, with a society incorporatedunder an act of Parliament, with a Board, a state institution, or words similar to Corporation,Corporative or words that are for Historical or Cultural heritage or words that signify acommunity, a caste or a religion or words that the Provincial Company registrar may considerto be inappropriate.

(2) If, the nature and the manner in which the trade name and the registration is used underminessocial virtues and threatens public peace or has the potential to hurt religious or communalvalues of a particular group of persons, or to mislead the public, or if the name applied isalready awarded within the Southern Provincial Council under the Company Law, suchTrade names should not be applied for, Similarly, if the Registrar receives such names forregistration, he/she should decline to register such names.

Abbreviatedname & dateeffective.

Businessinstitution &persons shouldregister.

Previouslyregisteredinstitutions.

Word thatshould not beused forbusiness names.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.20193A

5. (1) The change of nature of the business, or the change of place of business, could beaccomplished by forwarding a written request to that effect.

(2) In the case of change of ownership in business, the following procedure should be followed:

(a) in the event where the owner of the business is alive,

the owner of the business (registered owner) should submit an affidavit whereby heexpresses his willingness to transfer the business and the succeeding owner shouldforward a letter of consent to take over the business.

(b) In the event where the proceding owner is deceased.

(i) If the deceased owner has mentioned about the transfer of business in a LastWill he has executed before his death, the business would be transferred asmentioned in the Will subject the relevant judiciary process.

(ii) If the deceased owner has no last will and if he/she is married, the businesscould be transferred in the name the legitimate inheritor, with the consent ofchildren above 18 yeras of age (the consent should be in the form of affidavits)and if there are children below 18 years of age, the business could be transferredin the name of the legitimate inheritor (subject to a request from the legitimateinheritor).

(iii) If the deceased owner is not married and if he as no last will, the business couldbe tranferred in the name of a person upon his/her request with the consent ofthe Father, mother and brothers and sisters above 18 years of age (the consentin the form of affidavits).

(3)(a) In cases of (II) and (III) above it is advisable to call for a report from the Grama Sevakaof the area before the transfer is affected on the request forwarded.

(b) In the case (I) and (II) above, the estate of the deceased will be subject to a judicialprocess and hence the transfer of the business should be in keeping with the courtorder issued.

(4) When a new partner is taken in to apartnership business, the inclusion request should bemade by way of a amendment application. When there are more than two partners it ispossible for one or more partners to leave the partnership and new partners to enter. However,when there are only two partners and when one partner is leaving the business the remainingpartner should cancle the partnership and register the business as a sole proprietorship.

(5) Converting a sole proprietor business in to a partnership.This conversion could be accomplished by obtaining the consent of the existing proprietorand the prospective partners for the purpose, by way of affidavits. In this case thecommencement date of the partnership business would be the date on which the documentsare handed over to the office.

(6) Converting a Partnership in to a sole ProprietorshipThe consent of all partner should be obtained by way of affidavits. In that it should beexpressed that the preceding partners wish the business to run in the future. (It shouldmention the exit of the partners who leave and the fact that the business is to continue as asole proprietorship). Further the person who is taking over the business should express, byway of an affidavit, his willingness clearly, to take over the business.

Amendments.

4AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019

(7) However, when effecting the above amendments, it should be ensured that such Amendmentsare done subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions.

(a) The name of the sole proprietorship or the partnership should not be amended fully.

(b) The nature of the business should not be drastically amended.

(c) When a sole proprietorship is converted into a partnership, the sole proprietor ofthe sole proprietor business should be a partner in the partnership.

(d) When a partnership is converted into a sole proprietorship the sole proprietor ofthe succeding business should be one of the partners of the preceding business.

SECTION II

Appointments, Conduct and Administration

6. (1) It is necessary to appoint a Provincial Registrar of Trading places (in future referred to as theRegistrar) to conduct the duties of registering the trading places of the province. For thispurpose, the Secretary to the Minister in charge of Trade in the Southern Provincial Council,by virture of the office he/she holds is being appointed to the position of the ProvincialRegistrar of the Trading Places in the southern Provincial Council.

(2) In keeping with the provision of this precept the general administration and the Supervisionof the registration of Trading places within the province fails within the purview of theregistrar.

7. As per this Precept, the powers of the registrar, his work objectives and duties could be delegatedto an officer to be performed under the authority and supervision of the registrar. Accordingly,power could be delegated to the AGA of the District or any such officer and that officer whoperforms the duties on behalf of the secretary would be empowered to place his own signatureand issue certificates for trade places registrations.

8. (1) As per this Precept, the Registrar may issue a directive to a particular person to providecertain information that is required in the opinion of the registrar, within the time specified bythe registrar, to evaluate whether a business owned or partnered by that person should beregistered under this Precept or not, or whether any change should be affected to theparticulars, provided for registration. In the case of a corporation, the registrar may issue thedirective to either the Secretary of the corporation or to the person discharging the duties ofthe Secretary.

(2) A person who has not responded to the information solicited by the registrar as per clause(1) above within the time specified by him or within the time further accommodate by theregistrar or a person who provides false information is guilty of an offence and when foundguilty at a summary trail, is liable to pay a sum not exceeding rupees one thousand fivehundred for every single day for which that directive is continuously disregarded or toundergo a terms of imprisonment for period not exceeding six months or in either of the twoways, should be subjected to either a period of imprisonment or a fine and a period ofimprisonment.

Appointment ofthe registrar andregistrar’s duties.

Delegation ofpowers.

Providinginformation tothe registrar.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.20195A

(3) During the course of a trial as mentioned in clause (2) above, if the Court forms the opinionthat the information as specified by the directive issued within the time specified by theregistrar should be made available to the registrar, the Courts may issue such directive to theperson concerned to provide or cause to provide such information.

(4) If, according to this observations of the Registrar, a certain business organization or a certainbusinessman has affected changes to a business as against the particulars provided at thetime of its registration, the registrar may order the business establishment or person concernedto provide the information so required within the time allowed by the registrar. However,when it is revealed that the provision of information has been disregarded and when theregistrar has issued notice to provide reasons for such disregard under this clause, no legalaction may be instituted until the lapse of the period mentioned in the registrar’s notice.

(5) In the event where a change takes place every time in the nature of business, palce ofbusiness or the ownership of the business of a business registered under this precept, anapplication for registration of those changes should be made supported by an affidavitwithin one month of such changes and due registration should be obtained.

9. (1) If the registrar forms the opinion that a certain business is not providing sufficient informationfor him to carry out the duties under this precept and further, if he feels that certain items ofmaterial information have not been disclosed, the registrar has the authority to appoint andofficer in writing for the purpose of investigation and securing the required information asspecified by the registrar and such delegation of authority or appointment should be loggedin the relevant current duty log.

(2) In case where a situation warrants the appointment of an officer as stated in clause (1) above,the officer so appointed may obtain the services of a Peace Officer if he feels that is required,or he may resort to anyone, or all of the following courses of action in the discharge of hisduty.

(a) If he/she has confidential information to believe that the relevant documents areavailable at a particular place or a building he/she may enter that place or buildingand inspect or cause to inspect those documents and information.

(b) May also obtain a copy, a note or an inventory from a book, registrar or Documentstumbled upon during the course of an inquiry or search in a particular building.

(c) May also question and inquire any person found in such premises with regard toduties and matters relevant to this precept; the provisions available for inquiriesand searches under Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 should be made availableas far as possible for inquiries conducted under this artilce.

(d) May also take into his custody, any document or book that he feels is relevant afterhaving issued a receipt for such removal to the person in whose possession thatitem had been and may also take steps to enlist such item in the current duty logmention in clause (1) above.

Power to inquireand search.

6AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019

(3) If any person, organization, corporation, representative, director, officer or an employee ofan organization, obstruct or fails to allow the registrar or the person authorized by theregistrar in writing to perform his/her duty in providing an information a book, ducument, areport or any other written material, when such duties have been detailed under the provisionsof this Precept, such person or organization is guilty of an offence, unless it is proved thatsuch officer or employee of the organization did so without that person’s knowledge or thateverything possible has been done with due enthusiasm to prevent such obstruction orfailure.

(4) In a situation where the person who commits the offense as per clause (3) above is in apartnership, all the members of that partnership and managers at the time of committing thatoffense would be considered guilty of the said offence, and when found guilty at a summarytrial before a court of justice, should be punished, either of the two ways of a term ofimprisonment or a fine or a term of imprisonment and a fine, both.

(5) In extending an existing registration or in issuing a new registration under this Precept, itshould not be a bar to issue a certificate under a prior business registration.

10. (1) When a registration of abusiness is sought under this Precept, if the registrar requests thesubmission of an additional statement from the applicant, the applicant should submit suchadditional statement within the time specified and that statement should be allowed to befiled in the relevant file. Accordingly, when that statement is to he satisfaction of the registrar,steps should be taken to enable the applicant to receive, or to be sent be registered post, thecertificate of registration of the business.

(2) The person or business organization issued with a registration certificate as per clause (1)above, should take steps to properly displayed that registration certificate or a certified copyof that certificate at the principal place of its business and all other places of businessconnected to the registration within 14 days of such issue.

(3) Every business organization or person registerd under this Precept should :

(a) carry in all their Letterheads,

(i) the name of the person or the names of all the partners of the business, theregistration number of the Business certificate and the principal place of business,in a business run by a person (where not a single partner is a corporation) andrun in collaboration with partners.

(ii) the name of the person or the name of all the partners of the business includingthe names of the corporations and the particulars of incorporation, theregistratrion number of the Business certificate and the principal place ofbusiness, in a business run by a person (where one or more partners are acorporation) and run in collaboration with partners.

(b) carry in all their Receipts,

(i) the name of the business and

(ii) the registraion number of the business certificate.

Filling statementsby the registrardisplaying thecertificate.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.20197A

(4) A person or business organization that do not comply with clause (2) and clause (3) abobe,if that person or organization is a partner of business registered under the Precept, everypartner, manger or custodian of such business, is committing an offence and once foundguility at a summary trial before a court of jusice, should be subjected to a fine not exceedingrupees two thousand.

(5) A statement made, should not understood for its prima facie valued or for connected matterstherein except against the person who makes that statement or for registering that a statement,or for the certificate of registration.

11. (1) If a business organization or person registered under this Precept ceases its businessactivitites under its certificate of registration, that organization or person, within three monthsof such cessation, should notify the registrar of that cessation by handing over or sendingby registered post a statement in the form specified. This duty under this article should beperformed by the partners or the person registered at the time of this cessation or in the eventof death or partners or the person, by the personal representatives of such partners orperson.

(2) When the person who is bound to make the declaration as per clause (1) above, hasdisregraded to act accordingly within the period specified, he is guilty or committing anoffence under this precept, and when found guilty at a summary trial before Court of Justiceis subject to a fine not exceeding rupees ten thousand.

(3) Once the decalaration as per clause (1) above is received by the registrar, the registrar shouldfile that statement accordingly and taken the name of the subject person or organization offthe register and should mention that fact in the register.

(4) When the registrar has justifiable reasons to believe that a person or organization registeredunder this precept is not conducting business under that particular registration;

(a) the registrar may notify the concerned person or business by registered post or bya notice published in public press to submit reasons within a month of that notice,to furnish reasons if there are to say, as to why the registratin of that particularperson or organization should not be cancelled. Having done that, if the registerdoes not receive a satisfactory response within one mont of that notification, theregistrar may proceed to notice that the registration of the subject business hasbeen cancelled. If the registrar receive no response to that nitice within one monthof that notice he/she should make a notification in the gazette that such persons ororganization will be taken off from the business name register or

(b) sent or cause to send by registered post that notice to the person, organization andto each partner to his/her residential address a copy of that notice immediately.

(5) Having made that notification duly, and if the registrar does not receive a protest within onemonth of that notification, the registrar may proceed to take the name of that businessperson or organization off from the business register.

Notice oftermination &delisting fromthe Registrar.

8AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019

12. (1) When a particular application for registration of a business is made contravening this Preceptor the rules and provisions enacted under the precept, the registrar or the officer delegatedwith due authority should refuse to register that application.

(2) In parenthess to registering a place of business under this Precept, if that place could bebarred from the use as a premises to the business, the registration should not be construedto bestow power to the use of such premises.

13. In the event where as application for registration of a business is refused or a registration of abusiness is terminated under this precept, a person or organization continuing to conduct thatbusiness is committing an offence under this precept and once found guilty at a summary trialbefore a Court Justice, should be subject to a fine of rupee two thousand and a further fine ofrupees five hundred for every date that the business is made to function since found guilty.

14. When a person or organization is not satisfied with the decision made or an order issued by theregistrar on a particular issue, such person or organaization, one that decision or order iscommunicated in writing, may make an appeal to the Minster in charge of the subject. The ministerin turn should make known his decision within three months of making such appeal and thatdescision would be the final decision on the issue.

15. (1) A person or organization may inspect the record of his business by scrutinizing the files andrecords maintained by the registrar after paying the fees specified for the purpose.

(2) A business person or an organization registered under the precept is entitle to request acertificate of registration or a certificate done on a specified format with information aboutthe business from the registrar. That certificate or certifed copy however, is issued at a feedetermined by the registrar.

(3) A certificate of registration or a copy of a statement registered supplied under this Precept ora photo copy or an extract, when certified as a true copy by the registrar’s signature dulysuch document should be considered as evidence in any Court of Law.

If the registrar, after a due inquiry, is convinced that a particular trading certificate, filed orbound in a certain file or a registrar, is lost, has deteriorated or is destroyed or that certainnotes or material parts of such notes have been erased or made illegible, the registrar mayprepare and issue another certificate in place.

16. If, a notice, written notificaton, a certificate or any other document that has to be sent as requiredby the provisions of this Precept, has been sent by registered post to the registered address of themain place of business of the recipient by the Business names Registrar, that could be consideredas duly sent or handed over for all intents and purposes.

17. (1) In a situation where a certain business person or an organization has requested a tradingcerifcate under this precept and where that party has disregarded to submit some informationthe registrar has requested in writing or has not made amendements in the first applicationas ordered by the registrar, the registrar may issue a notice on a specified format to thatperson or organization stating to provide that information or to make that amendment.From the date of such notice, within a period of one month or within an extended period theregistrar may agree to grant, if the concerned person or organization fail to fulfill therequirements laid down, the registrar may consider that application for registration to haverescinded and thus, may refuse to take any further action to issue a certificate.

Power to refuseregistration.

Fine for using atrade namerefused orterminated.

Appeals

Examining thestatementsregistered andissuing certifiedcopies.

Handing overthe notices.

Situations whereapplications arerescinded.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.20199A

However, if that person or organization pays the extra fees ordered on the intial applicationand provides the information prescribed by the registrar or to make the amendment directedby the registrar, the registrar may take further action on the rescinded application.

(2) A person or organization that used a Business Certificate cancelled under this article and iscontinuing to use such certificate without taking steps to act as per 2nd paragraph clause (1)above, is committing and offense as per the Precept and once found guilty at a summary trialbefore a Magistrate should be subject to a fine not exceeding rupees two thousand and fora further continuing fine of rupees one hundred for every day that the busiuness continuesto commit that offense.

18. (1) The fees chargeable under this Precept, for registering a business organization, for extendinga registration, for issuing a certificate relevant to registration, for issuing a statement copy orfor any other service provided by the registrate, should be according to the orders issued bythe Minister as per the rules.

(2) The compensatory stipend payable to the authorized officers for discharging their duty inacting and maintaining activity with powers delegated by the registrar under this Precept,should be made with the recommendation of the Southern Province Chief Secretary, approvedby the Board of Ministers of the Southern Provincial Council.

19. (1) As specifically mentioned as, should be done according to rule’s, on certain matters in thisPrecept, the Minister may formulate rules under this precept.

(2) Every rule formulated by the Minister should be published in the Gazette and should beeffective from the date of the Gazette or from the future date mentioned in the Gazettenotification and having come into effect thus, should be submitted to the Southern ProvincialCouncil for approved within three months of the date of which, it came in to effect.

(3) Accordingly, if the Southern Provincial Council happens to turn down certain rules submittedfor its approval, such rules should be treated as rescinded from the date on which those wereturned down out subject to the position that no adverse impact on that rescindement may befall on the activities that have taken place from the date those rules were considered effectiveand that date on which those were rescinded.

(4) In such an event, the date that is considered as the date on whcih the subject rules wererecinded should be published in the Gazette.

20. (1) (a) A person or organization that maintains that a particular business is registered whilebeing knowledgeable of that statement falsity and a person or organization thatdeliberately changes the registration number of the business registration certificate.

(b) A business person or organization that submits or causes to submit a false affidavit, areguilty of an offence and once found guilty at a summary trial before a magistrate issubject to a penalty of either a sum of rupees not exceeding twenty thousand or a termof imprisonment not exceeding a period of six months.

21. Even though this Precept and rules made under the same bestows absolute power on theregistrar, despite the fact that there is opportunity for the affected party to forward reasons onhis/her behalf, the registrar should always exercise his absolute power in good faith subject tounquestionable bona-fides.

Rules todetermine thecharges.

Making falsestatements andclaimingregistration bydefault.

Registrar’sabsolute power.

10AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'09PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.04.2019

22. A notebook on registration maintained by the registrar under this Precept where documentsdiscrepancies are noted from time to time, the registrar could follow up and rectify same afterconducting his/her own examination.

23. It is not ethical or a ‘done thing’ to file action of cause to file action against the registrar underthis Precept, when he has discharged his duties with, or said to have done with, the best ofbonafide intentions.

24. The registrar and any other person acting on delegated power of the registrar, as along as theyperform their duties in that capacities should be considered as public servant for the purpose ofdefinition in the Penal Code.

25. All documents, report and register that are prescribed to be maintained under the provisions ofthis Precept should be maintained at the registered office under the supervision of the registraror the office authorized by the registrar.

26. (1) From the day this Precept comes into effect, the Southern Province Business Names PreceptNo. 1 of 1991 stands rescinded by this Precept, and all registers maintained under the saidprecept with due supervision of the Provincial Business names registrar or an officer authorizedby him, should be considered as those maintained under the present Precept.

(2) The certificates issued under the Business Names Precept No. 1 of 1991 should be consideredas certificates issued under the current Precept to the required extent during the period up to31st December of the financial year succeeding the year in which the current Precept wasbrought into effect.

(3) Further any legal matter that is being pursued in any judiciary under the said Precept shouldcontinue to proceed as per the provision and definitions of the said Precept.

27. Unless an alternative definition is required for the terms used in this Precept.

‘Business’ shall mean a sale or trade where money is exchanged.

‘Business Registration Certificate’ shall mean certificate issued under the Southern ProvinceRegistration of Trading Places Precept for a name or descretion under which a sole proprietorshipor a partnership business is registered and carried out.

‘Corporation’ shall mean an institution created by an act of parliament or the Southern ProvincialCouncil and includes institutions created under the Companies Act, as well.

‘Director’ and ‘Secretary’ shall mean a position that discharge the duties of adirector of thesecretary but known by any other title.

‘Business institution’ shall mean a business establishment comprising one or more personsbrought together for the purpose of making a profit. However, it excludes a company establishedand created under the Companies Act, No. 1 of 2007.

‘Person’ or ‘Persons’ shall mean a natural person or persons (Person/persons above 18 years ofage who have established business within the Southern Province)

‘The Minister’ shall mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Trade in the Southern ProvincialCouncil.

28. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of thisPrecept, the Sinhala version should prevail.04 - 893

RectifyingDocument ShortComings.

Unable toprosecute theregistrar.

Registrar andother officers arepublic servants.

Maintainingreports andregisters.

Internalarrangements.

Prevalence ofSinhala versonwheninconsistant.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.