==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2087$17 - 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 04 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'09'04No. 2087/17 - TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 04, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4200 — 107 (09/2018)

Draft Statute “Digana Sports Complex of the Central Province and the Sports Development FoundationStatute No. 02 of 2018”

I am publishing herein below the aforementioned statute, proposed to be implemented in the Central ProvincialCouncil, for public scrutiny.

This draft statute will be submitted for the approval of the Central Provincial Council at the expiry of 10 days from thedate of its publishing. If any submission is intended to be made in respect of the matters contained in this statute, suchsubmission shall be forwarded in writing to me, to the below mentioned address within 10 days from the publishing ofthis notice.

THILINA BANDARA TENNAKOONMinister of Sports, Youth Affairs, Women,Rural Development & Industries of the CentralProvince

P.O. Box 41,Getambe,Peradeniya

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.20182A

DIGANA SPORTS COMPLEX AND SPORTS DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

A statute to make provisions for administration, maintenance and development of Digana Sports Complex and to establishSports Development Foundation, and for matters connected therewith or consquential thereto.

Be it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Statute may be cited as the Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundationof Central Province Statute No. 02 of 2018 of the Central Provincial Council and shall comeinto force that after the receipt of approval of the Governor, on such date as the Minister mayappoint.

PART I

Establishment of Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundation

2. There shall be established Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundation ofCentral Province (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)

3. Objectives of the Foundation are as follows :

1. Proper administration and maintenance of the sports complex ;

2. To support to build a healthy and active community ;

3. To promote and develop sports ;

4. To provide facilities for the development of sports ;

5. To provide opportunity for visitors/spectators to spend the time happily and joyfully ;

6. To train local and foreign sports personnel an bring then to international level ;

7. To provide facilities for officers of all levels connected to sports to improve theirknowledge, capabilities/abilities and attitudes ;

8. To protect and maintain the sports complex for future generations ;

9. To create a sport complex with relevant facilities for the rural sport personnel to achievean experience of international level.

10. Increasing income of people living around the sports complex and improving employmentopportunities for them.

11. Providing opportunities for sports personnel in remote areas to improve their sportsskills by providing them with residential facilities.

4. The Foundation shall be body incorporated and legal entity that can sue or be sued at a court oflaw with perpetual succession and a common seal.

Short title and dateof enforcement

Establishment ofDigana SportsComplex andSportsDevelopmentFoundation

legal Entity

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2018

5. (1) The foundation shall be administered and managed by a Board of Control (hereinafterreferred to as “Board”)

(2) The Board shall comprise following ex-officio members ;

i. Chief Secretary, Central Province ;

ii. Secretary to the Ministry ;

iii. Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) Central Province.

iv. Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering Services), Central Province ;

v. Divisional Secretary, Kundasale ;

vi. Director of Sports, Central Province ;

vii. Director of Sports Education, Central Province.

(3) All members of the Board shall be appointed by the Governor on the recommendation ofthe Provincial Minister in-charge of the Sports portfolio. Chief Secretary of CentralProvince shall be appointed as the Chairman of the Board and Secretary to the ProvincialMinistry in-charge of the Sports portfolio as the Secretary of the Board.

6.(1) The Board shall meet once a month for the first six months after this statute comes intopower and thereafter once every three months or as the Board decides as per requirement.

(2) Quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be three members.

7. The common seal of the Board shall be kept in the possession of the Secretary of the Board andevery documents to be signed on behalf of the Board shall be signed by the Chairman and theSecretary of the board and affixed with the common seal

8. The power and duties of the Foundation are as follows :

PART II

Staff

11.(1) The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the Foundation. He shall be oneof the Assistant Directors employed in the Department of Sports. The Chairman shallappoint the aforementioned, subject to the concurrence of the control board. The controlboard can recruit someone permanently for this position at any suitable time.

(2) A Staff may be appointed to assist the Manager. Trainers and Sports Officers shall beappointed from the staff of the Department of Sports and reminder of staff may beappointed as decided by the Board, subject to the minute of recruitment and promotion.

(3) The control board shall prepare a recruitment minute providing for the recruitment ofcadre under the aforementioned basis and for the recruitment of such personnel and havethe same minute approved.

Composition ofBoard of Control

Meetings of theBoard andQuorum

Common Seal

Power and Dutiesof theFoundation

Staff

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.20184A

PART III

Advisory Committee

121. There shall be appointed an Advisory Committee by the Governor to provide consultancyfor the duties of the Board.

2. Composition of the Advisory Committee shall be as follows

I. Minister ;

II. Four members of the Provincial Council ;

3. Unless dismissed by the Governor after giving reasons, the term of office of the AdvisoryCommittee is three (03) years. This time limitation shall not be applicable in the case ofthe Minister in-charge of the portfolio.

4. The Governor shall appoint another member of the Provincial Council for a vacancyemerged as a result of resignation or dismissal from the membership of the AdvisoryCommittee or by death.

13. Duties and powers of the Advisory Committee :

(1) to provide consultancy when requested by the Board.

(2) to provide guidelines for local and foreign financial facilities required for the developmentof sports complex.

(3) to provide guidance to obtain local and foreign expertise for the development of sportsskills.

(4) to inspect the progress and evaluate the operation of sports subcommittees.

(5) to advice in a conflict of opinion among members of the Board.

14. Advisory Committee may meet whenever required or when requested by the Board.

15. Secretary to the Ministry shall coordinate the meetings and other affairs of the AdvisoryCommittee.

PART IV

Account of the Fund

16. (1) The foundations shall have a financial account under the name of “Digana Sports Complexand Sports Development Foundation of Central Province.”

(2) Sources of funds for the account are as follows :

I. Funds from the Central Government ;

II. Funds from Provincial Council Fund ;

Composition ofAdvisoryCommittee

Duties and Powersof the AdvisoryCommittee

Meeting ofAdvisoryCommittee

Coordination ofaffairs of AdvisoryCommittee

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2018

III. Income generated by the Foundation ;

IV. Aids and donations received from governmental and non-governmental organizationsin accordance with the existing law.

V. Aids and donations received from individuals or groups.

17. The monies from the Account may be used for following purposes ;

(1) for administrative and maintenance works of the sports complex ;

(2) to pay employees’ salaries and emoluments ;

(3) to buy fixed and current assets ;

(4) for expanding the sports complex ;

(5) for staff to participate in courses and local and foreign trainings related to their respectivesubjects.

(6) for other expenses to be borne in performing the duties of the Foundation.

18. The bank account should be maintained at a recognized state bank.

19. Money can be withdrawn by the secretary of the control board from the account on therecommendation of a three-member committee appointed by the Board or the account shall beoperated with the signatures of an authorized officer and the manager.

20. The fiscal year is from 1st of January to 31st of December every year.

21. All income and expenditure shall be entered into accounts and the accounting reports shall bepresented to the Board monthly.

22. The accounts shall be audited annually by the auditor-general and by the internal audit of theMinistry.

PART V

General Provisions

23. Any party who is dissatisfied with a decision made by the control board or the consultancyboard shall have the opportunity to appeal to the Hon. Governor of the Central Province.

24.(1) Without violating the sanctity of the regulations under the statute. Minister has the authorityto impose regulations on following matters.

(1) Establishment of sports subcommittees and provisions related to their powers, duties andconstitutions.

(2) Provisions related to booking the sports complex by external persons or institutions.

(3) Provisions related to introducing sports courses.

Spending Moneyfrom Account

Withdrawal fromAccount

AccountingReports

Auditing ofAccounts

Appeals

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.20186A

(4) Provisions related to users of the sports complex.

(5) Provisions related to determining the booking fees for the sports complex.

24.(2) Minister shall have the power to impose regulations in respect of other matters as requiredfor the implementation of powers and duties of this statute.

25. Every regulation made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council for approvalwithin a month after its publication in the Gazette. Any regulation failing to obtain approval thusshall be considered as repealed as from the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anysuch executed there under, and that shall be published in the Gazette.

26. All members and officers considered under this statute shall be deemed as public servants forthe purposes mentioned therein as per the definition in the code of criminal procedure. Thisfoundation shall be considered as an institution scheduled in the bribery act and definitionsshall be done according to the provisions of that act.

27. Any person who commits a breath of any provision of this Statute or provisions of any regulationmade under it shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and when such person is convictedafter a trial before the Magistrate, to direct him to pay a fine not exceeding five thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to both such fine andimprisonment.

28. This statute made in respect of the stadium, agreed upon by the Chief Secretary of the CentralProvince and the Secretary of the Line Ministry of Sports shall be ............... with the approvalof its by the Hon. Governor of the Central Province and on a date which shall be decided by theMinister for bringing it into effect.

PART VI

Interpretation

29. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires ;

“Province” means the Central Province ;

“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council ;

“Governor” means the Governor of Central Province ;

“Minister” means the Minister who is in-charge of the subject of sports of the CentralProvince ;

“Secretary to the Ministry” means Secretary to the Ministry to which subject of sports ofthe Central Province is delegated to ;

“Provincial Director” means the Director of Department of Sports of the CentralProvince ;

“Sports Complex” means the Digana Sports Complex situated at Digana, inclusive of the

Offences andPunishments

Interpretation.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'04PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2018

indoor stadium, swimming pool, open playground, stadium, body building unit, cafeteriaand the land, and any development and constructions that may be erected in the premises;;

“Digana Stadium” is a division affiliated to Department of Sports and Ministry to whichsubject of sports of the Central Provincial Council are delegated to ;

“Chief Secretary” shall mean the Chief Secretary of the Central Province.

Words importing one gender shall include all genders.

30. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts of this Statute theSinhala text shall prevail.In aninconsistencySinhala text shallprevail.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.