==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2092$4 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 08 jeks i÷od - 2018'10'08No. 2092/4 - MONDAY, OCTOBER 08, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

Establishment of Waste Management Authority No. 04 of 2017 of the Central Provincial Council

I do hereby notify the General Public the above Statute resolved in the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka on 22.05.2018 and approved by the Hon. Governor of the Central Provincial Council on 05.10.2018.

SARATH EKANAYAKE,Chief Ministry and Ministry of Finance and Planning,Law and Order, Local Government and Provincial Administration,Manpower, Education, Cultural Affairs,Tourism, Lands, Co - operative Development,Trade and Commerce, Food Supplies and Distributional Affairs Environment,Investment Co - ordination and the Ministry of subjects not come under other Ministry.

Office of the Chief Minister,Provincial Council Complex,Pallekele,Kundasale.08th Day of October 2018.

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Central Provincial Council

Chief Ministry and Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Local Government and Provincial Administration,Manpower, Education, Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Lands, Cooperative Development, Trade & Commerce, Food Supplies andDistributional Affairs and Investment Coordination of the Central Province.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A- PG 4273 — 12 (2018/10)

PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF CENTRAL PROVINCIAL

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.20182A

Central Province

Solid Waste Management Authority Statute No. 04 of 2017

A Statute to provide for the establishment of a Solid Waste Management Authority for the Central Province,for the management of collection, segregation, transportation, transfer, treatment and regulating the disposalof waste materials collected by the Local Government Institutions, with co-ordination from them and forthe other matters connected therewith repealing the provisions for aforesaid functions.

Be it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Central Province of the Democratic Socialist Republicof Sri Lanka, as follows:

01.This Statute may be cited as the Central Province Solid Waste Management Statute No. 04 of 2017and shall after receiving Governor’s assent, come in to operation on such date published in theGazette (hereinafter referred to as “ the appointed date”).

Part I

Incorporation of the Solid Waste Management Authority of the Central Province

2.(I)There shall be established an Authority, which shall be called the Solid Waste ManagementStatute of the Central Province, hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”.

(II)The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by sub Section (I) be a body corporate and shallhave perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3.(I)The Authority shall consist of the following members.

(I)Six ex – officio members namely,

a) The Chief Secretary of the Central Province or a Deputy Secretary nominated by him.

b) The Secretary to the Ministry charged with the subject of Local Government or anofficer nominated by him.

c) The Commissioner of Local Government, Central Province.

d) The Deputy Secretary (Finance) to the Central Province.

e) The Secretary to the Ministry charged with the subject of Environment or an officernominated by him.

f) Legal Officer of the Central Provincial Council and,

(II)Two members appointed by the Minister namely,

a) Among people, have specialist knowledge and experience in Waste Management.

Short Title andthe date ofoperation

Members of theAuthority

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.2018

b) One Mayor to represent all the Municipal Councils of Central Province, one UrbanCouncil Chairman to represent all the Urban Councils and one Pradeshiya SabhaChairman to represent all the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(III)The members of the Authority shall be appointed by formal appointment letters signedby the Minister. All such appointments should be published in the Government Gazette.

(IV)Persons appointed under sub Section (II) shall not be share holders or members of theBoard of Directors or advisors of any companies connected with Waste Managementactivities.

2.One person from among the members appointed by the Minister shall be appointed as theChairman of the Authority.

3.The office period of the Chairman counts up to the time he hold the membership in the Authorityand till he get the commend of the Minister.

4. I) The Minister may appoint a member for acting performance from them as the Chairman, whenhe has fallen sick, leaving out of the Island or for some other reasons, for a temporary period.

II) The post of the Chairman shall be terminated for one or more reasons mentioned below:a)Not qualified to be a member of the Authority under Section 4.b)Resignation making through a letter with own signature.c)Removal by the Minister, mentioning the reasons.d)By death.

4. Any person,

(1) If being a Member of Parliament, a Member of Provincial Council or a Member of Local GovernmentInstitution.

(2) If not being a citizen of Sri Lanka.

(3) If being decided by a recognized Board of Medical Professionals a person with mental disordersor become fully indisposed.

(4) If being declared convicted person under criminal code enacted in Sri Lanka or in any country anda person not released from such situation.

(5) If being a person penalized by a Court of Law in Sri Lanka or in any country and being imprisoned.

(6) If being charged with some offenses relating bribery.

Is not qualified to be as a member or appointed as a member of the Authority.

5. The Minister may, from time to time to determine the remuneration that may be paid to members foreach meeting of the Authority they attends.

6.1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of the Chairman.

Chairman ofthe Authority

Completion ofChairman’soffice period

Remunerationfor meetingattended

Seal of theAuthority

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.20184A

(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the Authority.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any instrument or document, except in thepresence of two members of the Authority, both of whom shall sign such instrument or documentin token of their presence.

7.(1) Every meeting shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Authority. In case of absence of theChairman for certain meeting, one member among present can be appointed as the Chairman withmajority consent of the members present, only for such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be seven members.

(3) All the matters required to be determined in the meeting of the Authority and shall be decided bythe vote of majority of the members present at a meeting of the Authority.

(4) In case of any equality of votes among members at a meeting, in addition to his first vote, theChairman shall have a casting vote.

(5) All acts, determined in meetings of the Authority, when found a member was elected or nominatedfound to be an unqualified person , shall be treated as qualified member and all acts executed inmeetings so far held, shall be valid thereof.

(6) No act or proceeding of the Authority shall be invalid by reason only of the existence of vacanciesamongst its members.

8. Every ex – officio member shall hold the office as the member of the Authority, until he hold thepost, he represent the Authority as ex – officio.

Part II

Objects, Powers and Functions of the Authority

9. The objectives of the Authority shall be,

(1) To make provisions for the maintenance of a clean atmosphere for the well being of the public ofthe Province as well as the fauna and flora, preventing the accumulation of solid waste in theenvironment, conserving the environment in the Central Province.

(2) Preparation of plans to minimize the hazards caused by the solid waste materials, disposal ofwaste generated within the authority areas of Central Province, without making harms to theenvironment and health, regulating the transportation, advising and evaluating, in co-ordinationwith the local authorities and other institutions with similar interest and determine evaluate thehazardousness that may be caused, with a view to adopting necessary procedure for the preventionthereof.

(3) Conducting researches on the re-use and recycling of waste.

(4) Planning and implementation of plans with the view to redeeming the places, areas and zones thathave been polluted due to injudicious disposal of waste.

Meeting of theAuthority

Office period ofex-officiomembers

Objectives ofthe Authority

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.2018

10.The Powers of the Authority shall have to,

(1) Co-ordination with local authorities of the Central Province, relating the solid waste managementwithin the Province and implementation of programmes related thereof.

(2) Implementation of recycling projects of solid waste management with the intention of conservationof environment.

(3) Conducting researches, collecting data and tendering reports to minimize on matters relating tothe generation of solid waste on its contents, segregation, collection, transportation, treatmentand disposal.

(4) Charging fees for service and facilities provided by the Authority.

(5) Imposing, implementing and supervising general procedures adopted by the local authorities onwaste management.

(6) Entering in to agreements which are needed to activate the powers and duties of the Authority.

(7) Acquiring, holding, obtaining on lease or rent, mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise disposal of anymoveable or immovable properties.

(8) Determining certain posts that the Authority may consider necessary to effectively carry out itsfunctions according to the laws in force, and prepare procedures for recruitment and code ofdiscipline.

(9) In accordance to the existing law and where appropriate, obtaining foreign technology and funds.

(10) Investigate complaints made by the General Public, local authorities or any other institutions inrelation to any violation of rules and regulations on waste management and to take appropriateaction accordingly.

(11) Aware of General Public and local authorities on waste management.

(12) Under the laws in force, conservation of environment.

(13) Determine the posts and its capabilities according to the Government laws and regulations inforce to the performance of the Authority.

Part III

Staff of the Authority

11.The Authority reserve the powers to execute the duties according to the laws and regulationsprevailing, to determine the staff required to perform the duties of the Authority.

12. (1) A General Manager, who possess qualifications according to the recruitment ] procedures, shallbe appointed with the consent of the Minister and the approval of the Authority.

(2) The General Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the Authority. The GeneralManager shall assigned with the responsibilities to perform the duties of the recruitment procedureof the Authority.

Powers andFunctions ofthe Authority

Staff of theAuthority

GeneralManager

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.20186A

(3) The General Manager shall be entrusted with other powers and duties by the Chairman, consideredto be needed for the development of the Authority from time to time.

13.According to the provisions mentioned in Section 11, the Authority is empowered with,

(1) To comply of recruitment procedure, contained with all appointments, promotions, educational,professional and other qualifications of the staff, allowances and salary scales under the approvalof the Board of Minister of the Central Provincial Council sending for approval of such institutions.

(2) Imposition of rules and regulations for personnel management including disciplinary control,general conduct and leave .

(3) Creating development systems for the improvement of the efficiency of staff.

(4) Implementation of a Provident Fund scheme, payment of consolidated fund and payment ofspecial allowances decided by the Authority.

(5) Implementation of a welfare scheme for the staff of the Authority.

14.I. The Authority is empowered with to recruit servants under the provisions mentioned inSection 11.

15. (1) To achieve the goals of the Authority, the officers shall be utilized, maintaining monitoring,supervising and controlling plans under the provisions of the Authority.

(2) Identifying new development and creative fields to achieve the goals of this Statute in a mosteffective manner for waste management in future, preparing and implementing law proceduresrelating to the national policies.

(3) Entering in to agreements with parties concerned for the conservation of Authority’s propertyand administration.

16.Some of the powers and duties of the General Manager, as he thinks, may assigned in writtenform to suitable staff officers.

Part IV

Finance

17. 1) The Authority shall have its own account.

2) Shall be created all sums to the Authority’s account, mentioned below.

(I) All sums of money as may be received or charged by the Authority in the exercise,performance and discharge of powers, functions and duties of the Authority.(II) All such sums of money as may be voted by the Central Government or ProvincialCouncil.(III) All such sums of money as may be received or charged by the Authority as local andforeign grants, donations, gifts and loans.(IV) All such sums of money as may be received or charged by the Authority in performingof activities.

Powers of theGeneral Manager

Transitional ofpowers of theGeneral

Accounts of theAuthority

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.2018

(V) All such sums of money as may be charged fines and legal costs on events ofcontravenes the provisions of this Statute, tabled by the Authority.(VI) Maintenance and operation of accounts shall comply with the provisions of this Statuteand the Provincial Fund shall be maintained under the provisions of Provincial CouncilAct, No. 42 of 1987.

18.The General Manager shall reserve the responsibility relating to the receipts and payments of sumsof the Authority’s account.

19.There shall be paid under mentioned expenditures out of the account of the Authority.

(1) Authority members’ allowances.(2) All such sums of money may be incurred by the Authority, in the exercise, discharge of powers,functions and duties of the Authority.(3) All such sums of money payment of remunerations, payments and allowances of the officers andservants of the Authority.(4) All such sums of money required for the management activities and duties of the Authority.

20. (1) The Authority shall reserve the power to obtain loans with prior approval of the Board ofMinisters of the Province to achieve the goals of the Authority. The conditions such as amountof loans, period of settlement, control of loans and the institutions loan obtainable, shall be as perthe decision of the Board of Ministers of the Province.

21.The financial year of the Authority shall be the calendar year.

22. (1) The Authority’s income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all financial transactions shallbe audited by the Government Auditor General’s Department from time to time. The CentralProvince Director of Audit too can attend audit matters when required.

(2) The income and expenditure account and the assets and liabilities in respect of each financialyear, shall be submitted to the Auditor General, not exceeding three months after the end offinancial year. Qualified auditor or auditors’ assistance shall be obtainable to help in audit process.They should act under the auditor’s control.

(3) All expenditures incurred by the auditors on auditing, which shall decided by the Chairman /General Manager or requested by the audit unit, shall be payable from the Authority’s fund. Afterdeducting such amount given to the qualified auditor by the Authority, the balance amount shallbe credited to the Sri Lanka joint account.

(4) There shall be permission to check all the books, deeds, agreements, accounts, vouchers and alldocuments related to the auditor and his assistants who support in his auditing process, and theAuthority or the officers shall be provided with details whatever concern, to them.

(5) Under this Section qualified auditor means,

(I) Persons of member of the Sri Lanka Institute of Charted Accountants or a certificateholder of a legally recognized firm to function as an accountant.(II) Holder of a certificate, issued by a Council of an institution, to function as an accountant,with(III) Member of Sri Lanka Institute of Charted Accountants or legally recognized otherinstitutes, holding the partnership of an Accountants’ Firm.

Generalenquiries ofreceipt andpayments

Usage of fundsof theAuthority

Loans of theAuthority

Financial Year ofthe Authority

Audit ofAccounts of theAuthority

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.20188A

23. (1) The Auditor, checking the accounts of the Authority and,

(I) Shall notify that all details and clarifications required were in receipt or not in receipt,(II) Shall notify that whether the account reports were prepared accordingly to exhibit theactivities of the Authority are true and,(III) According to his view, he can be forward a report to seek the attention of the ProvincialCouncil on matters related to the accounts viewed with interest, if available any inquiriesto be clarified.(IV) Shall forward his report along with the accounts, to the Chairman.

24.On receipt of the Auditor General’s report, in respect of every year, the Chairman shall cause thatreport, audited accounts of the assets and liabilities, statement on the activities of the Authority,to the Minister in charge of Local Government and the copies of the reports and documents, shallmake arrangement to be tabled within 03 months after end of a financial year, before the ProvincialCouncil.

Part V

General Provisions

25. (1) The Minister, may for the purpose of implementing, enacting the provisions of this Statute,make rules.

(2) Shall make rules without prejudice to the generality powers conferred in sub Section I, inrespect of all or any of the following matters.

(3) Any expenditure incurred by any person referred to in sub Section 1in any suit or prosecutionbrought against him before any court in respect of any act which is done or is purported to bedone by him under this Statute or on the direction of the Authority shall, if the Court holds thatsuch act was done in good faith, be paid out of the fund of the Authority.

26. (1) Expenditures incurred on civil or criminal case prosecutions against the Authority shall be paidout of Authority’s accounts. All expenditures or compensations charged by the Authority fromsuch cases, shall be credited to the Authority’s fund. The Authority reserve the rights to decide,whether such amount shall be bared by the Authority’s fund or not, in case of the officer individuallyresponded by the officer concerned.

27. (1) Any member, officer and employee of the Authority shall be deemed to be a public servant withinthe meaning and for the purposes of the Paenel Code.

(2) The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the meaning of Bribery Act.

Part VI

Interpretation

28.In this Statute, unless the context otherwise require,

“Province” means the Central Province,

“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council,

AccountsReports andAnnual Reports

Powers to makerules

Protection foractions takenunder thisStatute

Interpretation

Members andofficers deemedpublic servants

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.10.2018

“Governor” means the Governor of Central Province,

“Minister” means the Provincial Minister, in charge of the subject Local Authorities,

“Ministry” means the Ministry in charge of the subject Local Government of the Central ProvinceProvincial Council,

“Secretary to the Ministry” means the Secretary in charge of the subject Local Government ofthe Central Province Provincial Council,

“Local Authority” means Municipal Councils, Urban Councils and Pradeshiya Sabhas within theCentral Province,

“Entity” means any public corporation, company or institution affiliated to the Government,

“Pollution” means any direct or indirect alteration of physical, thermal, chemical biological,radioactive properties of any part of the environment by the discharge, emission or the deposit ofwaters so as to affect any beneficial use adversely or to cause a condition which is hazardous orpotentially hazardous to public health, safety or welfare or to animals, birds, wildlife, aquatic lifeor to plants of any description, and the “Solid Waste” means refuse, bulk refuse, ashes, sludge,human or animal excreta, waste oil,waste acid and alkali, carcasses or any other filthy matterincluding solid waste which may cause nuisance to, or could affect the health of the GeneralPublic or could the passage of time, because a nuisance to or affect the health of the GeneralPublic.

29.In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Statute the Sinhalatext shall prevail.

10 - 1275

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.