THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

A

BILL

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

(Private Members’ Bill)

Part II of February 12, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 16. 02. 2021)

To be presented in Parliament by Hon.Buddhika Pathirana, M. P. for Matara District

INSTITUTE OF WORLD LIFE LINE YOGA(INCORPORATION)

to incorporate the Institute of World Life Line Yoga

1Institute of World Life Line Yoga (Incorporation)

Preamble

Short title

Incorporationthe Instituteof World LifeLine Yoga

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF WORLD LIFE LINEYOGA

WHERE an Institute called and known as the “Institute ofWorld Life Line Yoga” has heretofore been formed inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidInstitute according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the objects andmatters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Institute of World LifeLine Yoga (Incorporation) Act, No. 2021.

2.From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so may persons as now are members ofthe “Institute of World Life Line Yoga” (hereinafter referredto as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted asmembers shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to asthe “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the nameand style of the “Institute of World Life Line Yoga” and bythat name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full powerand authority to have and use a common seal and alter thesame at its pleasure.

3.The general objects for which the Corporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)to expand branches to provide training for Yoga,meditation;

5

10

15

20

25Generalobjects of theCorporation

2Institute of World Life Line Yoga (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

(b)to conduct a special vocational training for schoolleavers and youngsters just employed aiming atimproving youth leadership qualities andpersonality; and

(c)to maintain physical and mental spirituality with aview to sustain a developing society, free of chargeYoga and Bawana programme will be organized.

4.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to theother provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the timebeing of the Corporation be administered by a Board ofDirectors consisting of Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary,Treasurer and another two members elected in accordancewith such rules.

(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shallconsist of the members of the Board of Administration of theFoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of the commencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhat so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotionof furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or anyone of them, including the power to acquire and holdproperty movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts,to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,to erectany building or structures on any land held by theCorporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers andservants required for the carrying out of the objects of theCorporation.

6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from timeto time, at any General Meeting of the members and by amajority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:—

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation

Rules of theCorporation

Generalpowers of theCorporation

30

35

3Institute of World Life Line Yoga (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

30

(a)classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand membership fees payable;

(b)procedure to be observed for the summoning andholding of meetings of the Corporation and of theBoard of Directors, the quorum for such meetingsand the exercise and perfomance of their powersand duties;

(c)the appointment, powers, duties and functions ofthe various officers, agents and servants of theCorporation;

(d)qualification required to become a memberof the Corporation and of the Board of Directors;and

(e)the administrations and management of the propertyof the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and alldebts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to theFoundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation forthe purposes of this Act.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmoneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way ofgifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees orgrants for and on account of the Corporation shall bedeposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or morebanks as the Board of Directors shall determine.

Debts due byand payableto thefoundation

Fund of theCorporation

4Institute of World Life Line Yoga (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

30

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable and immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise andall such property shall be held by the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for thetime being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the Corporation, butshall be given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions having objects similar to those of theCorporation and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibitedfrom distributing any income or property among theirmembers.

11.(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shallcause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received andexpended by the Corporation.

(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be thecalendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examinedand audited at least once in every year by an auditor orauditors appointed by the Board of Directors.

12.The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such

Audit andaccounts

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Seal of theCorporation

5Institute of World Life Line Yoga (Incorporation)

5

number of person as may be provided for in the rules in forcefor the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign theirnames to the instrument in token of their presence and suchsingning shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate or of any other persons except such as are mentionedin this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

10

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

6Institute of World Life Line Yoga (Incorporation)

Department of Government Printing