I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20201A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2199$10 - 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 27 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2020'10'27No. 2199/10 - TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2020

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 33197 — 25 (10/2020)

SERVICE MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA AYURVEDIC MEDICAL SERVICE

FOLLOWING Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service is substituted without prejudice to any actiontaken or purported to have been taken in terms of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service publishedin the Gazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 dated 20th of May 1996 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka andamendments made thereto from time to time.

By order of the Public Service Commission,

M. A. B. DAYA SENARATH,Secretary,Public Service Commission.26th October, 2020.

01. Effective Date:This Service Minute shall come into force with effect from 27.10.2020

02. Appointing Authority: Public Service Commission or Health Service Committee to whom the Public ServiceCommission has delegated powers.

03. Category/ Categories of Service:

3.1 Category of Service :Medical OfficerExecutiveSenior Executive

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20202A

3.2 Grades: Medical Officer -Preliminary GradeGrade IIGrade I

Executive-Administrative Grade IAdministrative Grade II

Senior Executive-Specialist Grade

04. Role:

The general role of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service is to work in collaboration with the Divisions ofAyurveda, Siddha, Unani and Indigenous Therapy with a view to giving effect to the aspects of carrying out theservices of prevention and treatment of diseases together with specialized services, forecasting the issuesconcerning health, planning, implementation and evaluation, health education, research activities, community healthactivities, manufacturing, management and standardization of drugs, cultivation of herbs and management ofAyurvedic services by identifying the causative factors detrimental to health through the Ayurvedic Medical Servicewhich is an All Island Service.

05. Salaries

5.1 Salary Code:

SL 2 - 2016 (Preliminary Grade, Grade II and Grade I)SL 1 - 2016 (Administrative Grade II Grade I)SL 3 - 2016 (Specialist Grade)

5.2 Salary Scale :

SL 2- 2016 - Rs. 52955 - 3X 1335 - 7X 1345 - 2X1630 - 16X2170 - 104355SL 1- 2016 - Rs. 47615 - 10 X 1335 - 8 X1630 - 17 X 2170 - 110895SL 3- 2016 - Rs. 88000 - 12 X 2700 - 120400

5.3 Initial salary step of the grade system:

GradeSalary CodeInitial salary stepInitial salarypoint (Rs.)

Preliminary GradeSL 2 – 2016Step 02Rs. 54, 290Grade IISL 2 – 2016Step 05Rs. 58, 305Grade ISL 2 – 2016Step 14Rs. 71, 805Administrative Grade IISL 1 – 2016Step 12Rs. 62, 595Administrative Grade ISL 1 – 2016Step 20Rs. 76, 175Specialist GradeSL 3 – 2016Step 01Rs. 88, 000

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20203A

06. Posts associated with the service

6.1 Approved grades, titles of posts and number of posts

Grades for which postTitle of postsNumber ofare approvedapproved posts

Administrative Grade IDirector - Ayurveda Teaching Hospitals04

Director - Ayurveda Research Hospitals04

Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda09

Administrative Grade IIDeputy Director - Ayurveda Teaching Hospitals02

Director – Ayurveda Research Hospitals01

Provincial Deputy/ Assistant Commissioner

of Ayurveda10

Director - Provincial Ayurveda Hospitals03

Assistant Commissioner (Technical)01

Assistant Director (Technical Education)01

Specialist Medical OfficerSpecialist Medical Officer121

Grade

Medical Officer Grade IMedical Officer in Charge04

Supervisory Community Health Medical

Officer09

Medical Superintendent (Ayurveda)24

Medical Officer in Charge – (Drug

Manufacturing Unit)11

Chief Municipal Ayurvedic Medical Officer02

Medical Officer PreliminaryScientist (Botany/ Chemistry)02

Grade and Grade IIAyurvedic Community Health Medical Officer22

Lecturer05

Medical Officer (Education )05

Medical Officer (Investigation)01

Ayurvedic Medical Officer1680

Community Health Medical Officer832

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20204A

6.2 Consolidated number of officers:

Administrative Grade I17Administrative Grade II18Specialist Medical Officer Grade121Medical Officer Grade I50Medical Officer Preliminary Grade and Grade II 2547

Preliminary Grade, Grades II and I are considered as belonging to the number of consolidated officers for thepurpose of grade to grade promotion.

6.3 Nature of the post/ posts: Permanent and pensionable

Note – Shall be subject to the policy decisions made by the government on the pension scheme in future.

07. Method of recruitment

7.1 Percentages of recruitment :

StreamPercentage

Open100 %

LimitedNot applicable

MeritNot applicable

7.2 Open recruitment

7.2.1 Grade at recruitment: Preliminary Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service

7.2.2 Qualifications:

7.2.2.1 Educational qualifications:

Should have obtained one year hospital intern training following a five year degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani medicine from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission.

7.2.2.2 Professional qualifications:

Should have obtained the certificate of registration in Ayurvedic Medical Council of Sri Lanka

7.2.2.3 Experience: Not applicable

7.2.2.4 Physical fitness:

Every candidate should be in an adequately sound physical and mental fitness to serve in any part ofIsland and discharge duties in the relevant post.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20205A

7.2.2.5 Other :

(a) Should be a citizen in Sri Lanka.(b) Should be of an excellent moral character and sound physical fitness.(c) Should have completed in every respect the qualifications referred to in 7.2.2 to 7.2.3 stated inthe notice calling for applications as qualifications to be satisfied for recruitment to the post.

7.2.3 Age

7.2.3.1 Minimum limit: 22 years7.2.3.2 Maximum limit: 45 years

7.2.4 Method of recruitment:

Graduates with degree in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani from a University recognized by the University GrantsCommission will be recruited according to the order of the merit list issued by the University GrantsCommission. Where the graduates related to several years are vying as applicants, recruitments will be madethrough a general interview giving priority to such order based on merit list of the respective years.

7.2.4.1 Authority Appointing the Board of General Interview: By the Appointing Authority (The general interviewwill be held for the purpose of verifying as to whether the candidates have fulfilled the qualificationsand are of sound physical and mental fitness and no marks will be given at the interview.)

7.2.5 Method of inviting application:

By publishing notices in government gazette or through the notices published in public newspapers and thewebsite.

08. Efficiency Bar

8.1

Which of theBefore how many yearsNature of Efficiency Bar:Efficiency Barthe Efficiency BarWritten/ Professional/is to be passedCertificate Courses/ Other

1st Efficiency BarBefore a lapse of 03 years uponA written examination.appointment to PreliminaryThe Syllabus is in Appendix I.Grade of the AyurvedicMedical Service

8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examinations are conducted : Twice a year

8.3 Authority conducting the Efficiency Bar Examinations :

By the Commissioner General of Examinations or an institution approved by Secretary to the Ministry In chargeof the subject of Indigenous Medicine on whom the administrative powers have been delegated by the PublicService Commission.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20206A

09. Language proficiency

9.1

LanguageProficiency to be acquired

Official Language

Other Official Language

10. Grade Promotions

10.1 Promotion to Grade II from Preliminary Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service

10.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of 02 years in Preliminary Grade andearned two (02) salary increments.

(ii) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory or higher level during a period of two (02) yearspreceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved procedure of the performance appraisal.

(iii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.

10.1.2 Method of Promotion:

When the officers fulfilling the qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the AppointingAuthority, promotion to Grade II will be made by the Appointing Authority with effect from the date onwhich they meet with such qualifications after the scrutiny of qualifications.

10.2 Promotion to Grade I from Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service

10.2.1 Promotion of Medical Officers with Postgraduate Degree/ Postgraduate Diploma

Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of six (06) years in Grade II of thecategory of service and earned six (06) salary increments during the relevant period.(iii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission CircularNo. 01/2020.(iv) Should have obtained a postgraduate diploma or a higher postgraduate degree from a University or anInstitution recognized by the University Grants Commission as stated in Appendix II of the ServiceMinute and such qualification should be certified by the Board of Management of such PostgraduateInstitute.

Officers joined the service through a language other than an officiallanguage should acquire the prescribed official language proficiencyduring the period of probation. It is sufficient to obtain an ordinarypass for the subject of mother tongue in the G.C.E. (O/L).

Should acquire the language proficiency at the respective level in termsof the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and the Circularsincidental thereto.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20207A

(v) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.(vi) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the respective level during the prescribedperiod.

10.2.2 Promotion of Medical Officers who do not possess Postgraduate Degree/ Postgraduate Diploma

Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment(ii) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of twelve (12) years in Grade II of thecategory of service and earned twelve (12) salary increments during the relevant period.(iii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission CircularNo. 01/2020.(iv) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.(v) Should have acquired the other language proficiency at the respective level during the prescribed period.

10.2.3 Method of Promotion:

When the officers fulfilling the qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the AppointingAuthority, promotion to Grade I will be made by the Appointing Authority with effect from the date on whichthey meet with such qualifications after the scrutiny of qualifications.

10.3 Promotion to Administrative Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service

10.3.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should have completed an active and satisfactory period of service of eight (08) years in Grade II of theAyurvedic Medical Service and earned eight (08) salary increments or be a Grade I Officer of the AyurvedicMedical Service(ii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission CircularNo. 01/2020.(iii) Should have obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals as stated inAppendix III.(iv) Should have completed a period of service not less than 03 years as an Officer in Charge/ MedicalSuperintendent in a Research/ Teaching Ayurveda Hospital, District Ayurveda Hospital or Rural AyurvedaHospital approved by the Department of Management Services. (The period of service following aformal appointment or an acting appointment to a post belonging to Administrative Grade II or I of theAyurvedic Medical Service will also be considered.)

10.3.2 Method of Promotion

Applications are invited from among Ayurvedic Medical Officers in service who have satisfied qualificationsin 10.3.1 at the time when vacancies occur in the posts (as at 01st of January and 01st of July every year). TheAppointing Authority will appoint a Board of Interview and approve the relevant marking scheme and actionwill accordingly be taken to make promotions after obtaining the approval of the Appointing Authority followingthe scrutiny of qualifications of the candidates by the relevant Board of Interview and the submission of therecommendations of such Board of Interview to the Appointing Authority with the recommendation of theSecretary of the Ministry.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20208A

10.4 Promotion to Administrative Grade I from Administrative Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service

10.4.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service of 03 years in Administrative Grade II of theAyurvedic Medical Service and earned three (03) salary increments.(ii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission CircularNo. 01/2020.(iii) Should have obtained a Postgraduate Degree in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals from a Universityrecognized by the University Grants Commission as stated in Appendix III.

10.4.2 Method of Promotion

Applications are invited from among Ayurvedic Medical Officers in service who have satisfied qualificationsstated in 10.4.1 at the time when vacancies occur in the posts (as at 01st of January and 01st of July everyyear). The Appointing Authority will appoint a Board of Interview and approve the relevant marking schemeand action will accordingly be taken to make promotions after obtaining the approval of the AppointingAuthority following the scrutiny of qualifications of the candidates by the relevant Board of Interview andthe submission of the recommendations of such Board of Interview to the Appointing Authority with therecommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry.

10.5 Promotion to Specialist Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service

10.5.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should be an Ayurvedic Medical Officer in Grade II or above grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service(ii) Should have obtained a full time Postgraduate Degree of Doctor of Medicine in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani orMaster of Surgery in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani in a subject stated in Appendix IV for a period of not less than03 years in a local or foreign university recognized by the Government of Sri Lanka or University GrantsCommission and such qualification should be certified by the Board of Management of such PostgraduateInstitute .(iii) No disciplinary punishment has been imposed in terms of the Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020.(iii) Should have obtained a Board Certificate of the Board of Study established in a Postgraduate Institute ofAyurveda/ Siddha/ Unani recognized by the University Grants Commission following a full time clinical andresearch training for a period of not less than 02 years under supervision of a Specialist Medical Officer ofthe Department of Ayurveda relating to a subject pursued after completion of qualifications stated in I and IIof 10.5.1. above.

Note :- Promotions are made to the Specialist Grade considering only the qualification of full time clinical and researchtraining for a period of not less than 02 years under supervision of a Specialist Medical Officer of the Departmentof Ayurveda relating to a subject pursued after completion of the qualifications stated in 10.5.1 (i) to 10.5.1. (iii)above until the Boards of Study referred to in 10.5.1 (iv) are established.

10.5.2 Method of promotion

Applications are invited from among Ayurvedic Medical Officers in service who have satisfied qualificationsstated in 10.5.1 at the time when vacancies occur in the posts (as at 01st of January and 01st of July everyyear). The Appointing Authority will appoint a Board of Interview and approve the relevant marking schemeand action will accordingly be taken to make promotions after obtaining the approval of the AppointingAuthority following the scrutiny of qualifications of the candidates by the relevant Board of Interview andthe submission of the recommendations of such Board of Interview to the Appointing Authority with therecommendation of the Secretary of the Ministry.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.20209A

11. Appointment to posts: Given in Appendix V

12. Conditions of Service:

12.1 Conditions for Confirmation in Service

Ayurvedic Medical Officers recruited to Preliminary Grade are subject to a period of probation of three years.Confirmation in appointment will be made in terms of rules and regulations of the Establishments Code of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission.

12.1.2 It is compulsory to fulfill the following qualifications for confirmation in appointment :

(i) Should have a satisfactory service during the period of probation,(ii) Should have earned all due salary increments during the period of probation,(iii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar examination.

12.2 In addition to the provisions specified in this Minute, every officer of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service issubject to the provisions of Volumes I and II of the Establishments Code, provisions of Financial Regulations,Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and rules and regulations enacted by the Government from time totime and also to the Ministerial and Departmental Orders and Circulars.

12.3 Any officer recruited to the Ayurvedic Medical Service is subject to serve in any duty station of the Island as they arerecruited to the Service to serve in the posts Island-wide.

12.4 Transfers

Transfers of all Ayurvedic Medical Officers are made in terms of the Scheme of Transfer approved by the PublicService Commission.

13. Interpretations and Definitions

(a)“Service Minute” means the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service.(b)“Commission ” means the Public Service Commission.(c)“ Service” means the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service.(d)“Secretary of the Ministry” means the Secretary of the Line Ministry in charge of the subject of IndigenousMedicine.(e)“Commissioner of Ayurveda” means the Head of the Department of Ayurveda.(f)“Ministry” means the Line Ministry in charge of the subject of Indigenous Medicine.(g)“Period of Active Service” means the period of service during which an officer was drawing the salariesapplicable to his post inclusive of the periods of no pay leave the Cabinet of Ministers, as a policy, hasspecifically stated to have reckoned as being a period of active service other than the periods of no pay leave.

14. Absorption into the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service

i. The period of Service will be counted on the basis of the date of appointment to each post. However, owing to theabsorption, the date of increment of the person concerned should not be changed and such date should be in forceunchanged as the date of increment that existed prior to the absorption. Likewise, due to the reason that the newsalary step of the person concerned is in correspondence with his last drawn salary at the salary conversion, heshould not be placed on the next higher salary step either in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the EstablishmentsCode.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.202010A

ii. The provisions of absorption will be applicable only to those who are in Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effectivedate of this Service Minute. All Ayurvedic Medical Officers drawing salaries under salary scales given in the PublicAdministration Circular 03/2016 and Circulars incidental thereto on the due date will be absorbed as follows subjectto the provisions in Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

Officers of the Ayurvedic Medical Service will be absorbed as follows :

(a) Officers serving in Preliminary Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of thisService Minute will be absorbed into Preliminary Grade of the Service(b) Officers serving in Grade II of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this Service Minutewill be absorbed into Grade II of the Service.(c) Officers serving in Grade I of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this Service Minutewill be absorbed into Grade I of the Service.(d) Officers serving in Specialist Grade of the Ayurvedic Medical Service as at the effective date of this ServiceMinute will be absorbed into Specialist Grade of the Service.

15. Interim Provisions

15.1 The provisions of absorption into the Preliminary Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service set out in theGazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 of 20.05.1996 shall remain in force as it was until the absorption into the PreliminaryGrade of the last Ayurvedic Medical Officer holding the Diploma out of the holders of Diploma in Ayurveda recruitedin terms of the Service Minute effective from 01.01.1996.

15.2 These interim provisions will be applicable only to those officers recruited under the Service Minute of the Sri LankaAyurvedic Medical Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 924/2 of 20.05.1996 that was in force prior tothe new service being effective. 16. Matters not provided for:

Any matter not provided for in this Minute will be determined by the Public Service Commission.

17. Other:

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Service Minute, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.202011A

Appendix I

1.1 Name of the Examination:Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka AyurvedicMedical Service

1.2 Particulars of the Examination:

Question PaperDurationTotal marksPass marks

1. Monetary Systems02 hrs.10040

2. Establishments Code and Procedural Rules02 hrs.10040

3. Hospital Administration02 hrs.10040

1.3 Syllabus of the Examination :

Title of the question paperSyllabus

1. Monetary Systems

2. Establishments Code andProcedural Rules

3. Hospital Administration

(a) Volume I of Financial Regulations of the Government ofSri Lanka (Excluding Chapter X)

(b) Establishments Code and Procedural Rules of the PublicService Commission

(a) General rules and regulations governing the hospitals(b) Keeping the hospitals clean(c) Rules and regulations governing the patients(d) Methods of obtaining prescribed foods and beverages forpatients(e) Monitoring of the drug manufacturing plants(f) Rules and regulations governing the admission of patients(g) Knowledge on the duties assigned to higher medicaldesignations to minor employees(h) General administrative regulations of the Department ofAyurveda(i) Regulations relating to the maintenance of accounts,documents and books of the stores of the Department ofAyurveda(j) Procedure of Manual of the Department of Ayurveda

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.202012A

Appendix II

Ayurvedic Medical Officers should have followed a Postgraduate Diploma for a period of at least one academic year or ahigher degree pertaining to the following subject areas to be promoted to Grade I of the Ayurvedic Medical Service set outin this Minute. This Postgraduate Diploma/ Postgraduate Degree should be obtained from a University/ PostgraduateInstitute recognized by the University Grants Commission.

Subjects recommended:

1) Surgery- Surgical therapy including ulcer therapy, burn therapy, fractures, ulcertreatment, general surgical therapy, caustic therapy, Agnikarma or ThermalMicro cautery, anal disorders, disorders of urinary system, leech therapy

2) ENT- Dental therapy, ophthalmology, headaches, general ENT Ophthalmology

3) Physical therapy- Physiotherapeutical diseases including general physiotherapy, prevention ofdiseases and psychotherapy, Panchakarma, nervous illnesses, dermatologicalillnesses, joint diseases

4) Demonology- Demonological systems of treatment, astrology, Sathwawaja and DaiwaVyapasra therapy

5) Pediatrics- Paediatric therapy, obstetrics, gynecologic diseases

6) Toxicology- Treatment of diseases caused by poison, general toxicology

7) Community Medicine- General therapy of community medicine, Community Medicine and Yogatherapy

8) Pharmacology- Division of taste, Pharmacology, Bhishhya Kalana

9) Rasayana-tantra

10) Aphrodisiac medicine

11) Management of Ayurveda Hospitals

12) Those who have obtained Postgraduate Degrees or Postgraduate Diplomas in other subjects except the above 11subjects with prior approval of the Line Ministry will be considered for promotion to Grade I upon recommendationsof a three member Committee appointed by the Secretary of the Line Ministry.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.202013A

Appendix III

Administrative Grade I

Should have obtained a Postgraduate Degree in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals for a period of not less than two yearsfrom a local or foreign higher educational institution, Postgraduate Institute or a University recognized by the UniversityGrants Commission.

Administrative Grade II

Should have obtained a Postgraduate Diploma in Management of Ayurveda Hospitals from a local or foreign higher educationalinstitution, Postgraduate Institute or a University recognized by the University Grants Commission.

Appendix IV

Specialist Grade

The term “Medical Specialist” means a person who have followed a full time postgraduate degree for a period of not less than3 years in any of the following subjects from a local or foreign University recognized by the Government of Sri Lanka and theUniversity Grants Commission in accordance with the system of medicine defined as “Ayurveda” in the Ayurveda Act, No.31 of 1961 and obtained a Board Certificate from a Board of Study established in a Postgraduate Institute of Ayurveda/Siddha/ Unani recognized by the University Grants Commission after obtaining a full time clinical/ research training relatingto the subject for a period of not less than 02 years under supervision of a Specialist Medical Officer.

(1) General Ayurveda/ Siddha / Unani Medicine(2) Community Medicine(3) Materia Medica(4) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Surgery(5) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani ENT and Ophthalmology Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani(6) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Pediatrics(7) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Gynecology and Obstetrics(8) Ayurveda / Siddha/ Unani Demenology(9) Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Toxicology(10) Indigenous Medicine

Apart from this, the MD/ MS postgraduate degrees in Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani to be awarded in future for the supplementarysubjects of 10 main subjects referred to above are also recommended for the Specialist Grade.

SpecializationRecognized qualifications

1. Physical therapyShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of following fields:

Physical Therapy (General Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Medicine), Physical Therapy(Panchakarma), Physical Therapy (General Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani),Panchakarma, Pathology, Rejuvenation and Aphrodisiac

2. Community MedicineShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of followingfieldsAyurveda/Siddha/Unani Community Medicine, Ayurveda/ Siddha/ UnaniNutrition

3. PharmacologyShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of followingfields:

Ayurveda/ Unani Pharmacology, Ayurveda/Siddha/ Unani Pharmaceutics,Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Alchemy)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.10.202014A

4. SurgeryShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfields :

Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Surgery, Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Anesthesiology,Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Para Surgical Procedures

5. ENTShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfield :

Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani ENT, Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Ophthalmology,Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Oral Diseases

6. PaediatricsShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfield :

Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Pediatrics

7. Gynecology and ObstetricsShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfield :

Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Gynecology and Obstetrics

8. DemonologyShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfield :

Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Demonology and Psychiatry

9. ToxicologyShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfield :

Ayurveda/ Siddha/ Unani Toxicology

10. Indigenous TherapyShould obtain the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one followingfield :

Fracture therapy, Ulcer therapy, Burn therapy, Acupuncture, Eye treatment,Snake bite treatment and

Venom therapy

In addition to the above postgraduate qualifications, following qualifications are also recommended for the promotion ofMedical Officer (Research) category of the Ayurveda Research Institute and the Medical Officer (Education) category ofthe National Institute of Indigenous Medicine to the Specialist Grade.

Should have obtained the MD degree in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani in one of the fields of Basic Principles of Ayurveda andAnatomy and Physiology (Sharira Vingnana).

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.