==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2096$6 - 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 05 jeks i÷od - 2018'11'05No. 2096/6 - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. : CI/1571.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Memorandum of Understanding entered into betweenFinaly Properties (Pvt) Limited, No. 186, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 02 of the one part and the United Tea, Rubber andLocal Produce Workers Union, No. 513-2/1, ElvitigalaMawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 24th April 2018is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the IndustrialDisputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactmentsof Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)

A. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,26th October 2018.

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING No. 16OF 2018

1A- G 28852 - 16 (11/2018)

Collective Agreement

This Collective Agreement made on this 24th day of April

Two Thousand Eighteen, to take effect from the First day of

January Two Thousand Seventeen, between Finlay Properties

(Private) Ltd, a Company having its registered office at No.

186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, (hereinafter referred to

as “the Employer”) of the one part and the United Tea,

Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union a Trade Union

duly registered under the provisions of the Trade Unions'

Ordinance and having its registered office at No. 513 2/1,

Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05, (hereinafter referred to

as “the Union”) of the other part.

Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as

follows :

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

Title

This agreement shall be known and referred to as the “FinlayProperties (Private) Ltd, Manual Workers' CollectiveAgreement of 2017”.

PART I

Containing terms and conditions of employment and mattersincidental thereto and connected therewith

1.Persons covered and bound

This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer,the Union and all employees who are members ofthe Union and are employed on monthly contract ofemployment.

2.Date of Operation and Duration

This Agreement shall be effective from the First dayof January Two Thousand Seventeen, and shallthereafter continue to be in force unless it isdetermined by either party giving one month's noticein writing to the other, subject to the proviso thatone party hereto shall not give such notice to theother party to commence before the First day ofDecember Two Thousand Nineteen (2019) and suchnotice shall not expire before the Thirty First day ofDecember Two Thousand Nineteen.

3.This Agreement shall supersede and replace theprovisions of the “Finlay Properties (Private) Ltd.Manual Workers' Collective Agreement 2014”.

4.General Terms and Conditions of Employment

During the continuance in force of this Agreement,the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall bedeemed to be included in each contract of servicebetween the Employer and an Employee covered anbound by this Agreement, whether such contract ofservice be written or oral, which was subsisting onthe date hereof or which shall come into being atany time after date hereof during the continuance inforce of this Agreement.

Provided the said terms and conditions ofemployment in respect contract of service of theEmployees, may be amended with the consensus ofthe Trade Union and upon such amendments beingagreed upon in writing.

5.Probation

Every employee recruited by the Employer shallserve a period of probation of not more tha six (6)months, Provided, however, that if during the six(6) months probationary period the Employer is notsatisfied with the progress of such Employee, theprobationary period may be extended for a furtherperiod of three (3) months and in that event theEmployer shall indicate to the Employee in writing,the reasons why the probationary period has beenextended. During the period of probation or extendedprobation, the Employer shall have the right toterminate the services of the Employee withoutnotice. If the Employee's service are not terminatedfor unsatisfactory service during the period ofprobation or extended probation and the Employeehas not been confirmed by the Employer, theEmployee shall be deemed to be confirmed in itsEmployer's service with effect from the day afterthe day on which the period of probation, as the casemay be ended.

6. Attendance

1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by theEmployer an Employee shall present himself forwork on every day (other than a holiday) at theusual starting time of the store, factory, mill orjob and shall there remain available for workthroughout the normal working hours.

2) If at a store, facotry, mill or job, work istermprarily not available for an Employee in hisown occupation, he shall be deemed to be readyand willing to perform work within the capacityand skill in any other occupation at any otherwork site of the Employer where work isavailable.

3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of anEmployee shall constitute neglect of duty forwhich he shall be liable to appropriatedisciplinary action.

7.Hours of work

The normal working hours shall be those hours, whichare customarily worked at a store, factory, mill orjob in the Establishment of the Employer.

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

8.Forfeiture of wages

Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction ofthe Employer an Employee fails to hold himselfavailable for work throughout the normal workinghours of each working day, he shall forfeit and hisEmployer shall be entitled to deduct his wages forthe period from the time at which such failure occursuntil he is again available for work.

9.Overtime

1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shallwork reasonable overtime, which has beenauthorized by the Employer. Refusal to workreasonable overtime in the absence of asatisfactory explanation, which is acceptable tothe Employer, shall constitute neglect of duty,for which an Employee shall be liable toappropriate disciplinary action.

2) Overtime work(i. e. work performed in excessof normal working hours) shall be remuneratedat one and one half (1 1/2) time the normalhourly rate ascertained in accordance with theprovisions of 16 (a) hereof.

10.Weekly Holidays

1) In respect of each week, an Employee shall beallowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week asthe weekly holiday. Provided, however, that ifany Employee has not worked for a period of atleast twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of anyperiod of overtime work during that week, heshall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shallbe entitled to deduct one day's wage in respectof the weekly holiday for that week computedin accordance with the provisions of Clause16(b) hereof.

2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28)hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employershall include -

a) every holiday allowed by the Employer tothe Employee as annual holiday.

b) every Public holiday granted by theEmployer in terms of Clause (II) hereofand

c) every day's absence on any groundapproved by the Employer.

3) The Employer may employ any Employee on aweekly holiday subject to the followingconditioins :-

I A day within the six days next succedingsuch weekly holiday shall be allowed tothat employee as a holiday withremuneration. Provided, however, that ifany employee who is employed on aweekly holiday is liable to forfeit and hisEmployer is entitled to deduct one day'swage in respect of that weekly holiday asprovided in sub-clause (1), then and insuch event that Employee shall forfeit andhis Employer shall be entitled to deductone day's wage computed in accordancewith the provisions of Clause 16(b) hereofin respect of the holiday which shall beallowed to that Employee within six (6)days of that weekly holiday. Provided,further that in respect of not more thantwo (2) such weekly holidays in any onecalender month an Employee may with theconsent of the Employee.

a) instead of allowing an alternateholiday within six (6) days ofweekly holiday in respect of whichthat Employee shall not be liable toforfeit, and the Employer shall notbe entitled to deduct one day's wagecomputed in accordance with theprovisions of Clause 16(b) hereofin lieu of such alternate holiday.

or

b) in case that Employee is entitled toan alternate holiday within six (6)days of the weekly holiday asaforesaid in respect of whichalternate holiday he shall be liableto forfeit and the Employer shallbe entitled to deduct a day's wage asaforesaid, employ that Employee onthe alternate holiday.

II. That in respect of work done on suchweekly holiday, the employee shall be paidas remuneration.

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

a) one and one half (1 1/2) times thenormal hourly rate ascertained inaccordance with the provisions ofClause 16(a) hereof for the numberof hours worked during the firstnine (9) hours (exclusive of onehour for meal), and

b) at double the normal hourly rateascertained in accordance with theprovisoins of Clause 16(a) hereoffor each subsequent hour of work.

The provsions of this Sub-clause shallnot apply to Employees engaged on workoutside the business premises of theemployer for period exceeding twelve(12) days in respect of the duration ofeach such period.

11.Annual Holidays

Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee inaccordance with the decisions of the Wages boardfor the Tea Export Trade, Engineering Trade andMotor Transport Trade, as the case may be.

12.Public Holidays

1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employeein accordance with the decisions of the WagesBoard for the Tea Export Trade, EngineeringTrade and Motor Transport Trade. Providedhowever, that an employee may be employed ona Public holiday in accordance with theDecisions of the relevant Wages Board.

2) If any Public holiday to which an Employee iseligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1)falls on Sunday, a day eigher in the six (6) daysimmediately preceding or in the six (6) daysimmediately succeeding such Public Holidayshall be granted to the Employee as a weeklyholiday in accordance with the provisions ofClause 10 hereof.

3) If any Public holiday to which an Employee iseligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1)falls on Saturday, the number of hoursconstituting the normal working day (inclusiveof one hour for meal) on the day immediatelyproceeding such Public Holiday shall be six andone half (6 1/2) hours.

13.Casual Leave

In respect of each year of employement during whichany employee has been constinuously inemployment, that employee shall be entitled to takeon account of private business or other reasonablecause, including ill-health, if that Employee'sentitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave(hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) withremuneration for the period or an aggregate of periodnot exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shallallow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay suchremuneration.

Provided, however, that not more than two (2) days'casual leave shall be taken at any time, save andexcept upon the ground of ill-health, provided furtherthat any worker shall not be entitled to take casualleave immediately preceding or immediatelyfollowing any period of annual holidays. Providedfurther that in respect of any Employee's first yearof employement, including any period of probation,he shall be entitled to casual leave for that yearcomputed on the basis of one day for each completeperiod of two months' service.

Casual leave will normally be granted on applicationwithout the employee being required to state thereason for the application. Where an Employer fundsit difficult to grant an application for casual leave,his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee assoon as possible after the application is made and insuch case, the Employee may be required to statethe reason for the application in order that theEmployer may decided whether it is reasonable inthe circumstances to grant him casual leave.

4.Sick Leave

An Employee who has joinded the services of thecompany on or before the 24th April 2018 shall beentitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty-one (21)days . Provided that -

a) His illness is supported by a MedicalCertificate from a Registered MedicalPractioner (unless waived by the Employer)and

b) The Employee shall not be on probation withinthe meaning of Clause 5 thereof. Provided,however, that an Employee who has been onprobation shall as from the date of

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

confirmaiton in respect of the remainder ofthe first year of employment be entitled to sickleave not exceeding ten (10) days if he isconfirmed after six (6) months' probation andsick leave not exceeding five (5) days if he isconfirmed after nine (9) months' probation.

An Employee who has joined the services of thecompany on or after 24th April 2018 shall be entitledto sick leave not exceeding seven (7) days providedthat -

a) Any absence on the ground of illness over andabove two consecutive days is supported by aMedical Certificate from a RegisteredMedical Practioner (unless waived by theEmployer) and

b) The Employee shall not be on probation withinthe meaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided,however, that an Employee who has been onprobation shall as from the date ofconfirmation in respect of the remainder ofthe first year of employment be entitled to sickleave not exceeding three (3) days if he isconfirmed after six (6) months' probation andsick leave not exceeding two (2) days if he isconfirmed after nine (9) months' probation.

15.Monthly consolidated wages

1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 thereof,the salaries of employees covered and boundby this Agreement will be revised as follows :

a) The empoyer shall increase the salariesof employees covered by this agreement,by 9% with effect from 1st January 2017on the salaries as at December 2016.

b) Each employee shall thereafter be placedon the corresponding point of the salaryscale set out in the First Schedule heretoin the grade applicable to him. If there isno corresponding point, he shall be placedon the next highest point on the samescale.

c) Thereafter salaries will be increased by afurther 5% with effect from 1st January2018 on the salaries as at December 2017.

d) The salaries will be increased again by afurther 5% with effect from 1st January2019 on the salaries as at December 2018.

e) In addition, with effect from 1st January2017 the employee who are so eligiblewill receive increments on the followingbasis.

Current annual increment rates are Rs.

50/- (Manual worker - tea export/ engineering unskilled)75/-(Engineering Skilled)60/-(Engineering Semi Skilled)80/-(Drivers 0-5 years of service)100/-(Drivers 5-10 years of service)120/-(Drivers over 10 years of service)

2) The scales of the consolidated wages set outin Schedule I hereto include all statutoryallowances as at the date of this agreement.

3) This Agreement shall not have the effect ofchanging the incremental date of an Employee.

4) In lieu of the consolidation of salaries, basedon the Colombo Consumer Price Index(CCPI), hitherto prevailled, with effect fromFrist day of January 2017 a sum of Rs. 550/-will be added and the scales of consolidatedwages set out in the First Schedule hereto shallbe revised by addition to and by consolidationof the salary at such stage of each grade ofeach employee.

In a similar manner a further sum of Rs. 550/-will be added with effect from Frist day ofJanuary 2018 and again a further sum ofRs. 800/- will be added with effect from Firstday of January 2019 and the scales ofconsolidated wages in the First Schedulehereto shall be revised by addition to and byconsolidation of the salary at such stage ofeach grade of each employee.

The Employer also agrees to make a paymentto each employer covered by this Agreementby way of Notional arrears, (for the periodJanuary 2017 to January 2018)

However, parties agree that such paymentsmade by way of notional arrears for the periodJanuary 2017 to January 2018, shall not attractconsequential benefits such as EPF/ETF, etc.

5) If during the continuance in force of thisAgreement, the Government of Sri Lanka

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

a) Prescribes increase in wages by anywritten law and applicable to categoriescovered by this Agreement, legallyobliging the Employer to make suchpayment, the Employer shall pay suchincrease in wages prescribed by suchwritten law and in terms of such written law.

b) Recommends increases in wages, suchrecommendations will not be applicableto the Employer, irrespective of whetheror not such recommendation areapplicable to categories covered by thisAgreement.

16.Wages for period less than one month

For the purpose of this Agreement, the wages of anEmployee for periods less than one month shall becomputed in the following manner.

a) For one hour- the monthly wage dividedby two hundred (200)

b) For one day- the monthly wage divided bytwenty six (26)

c) For one-half day - a day's wage ascertained as(either morningabove divided by two (2)or Afternoon)

d) For one week- a day's wage ascertained asabove multiplied byseven (7)

17.Production Bonus in lieu of NRCLG

The employer, the Union and the employee agreethat a payment guaranteeing a minimum amount ofRs 27,000/- per annum (Rs. 2,250/- per month) willbe paid to each employee covered and bound by thisagreement provided however, that the quantum of thispayment (subject to the minimum payment of Rs.27,000 per annum) will be calculated in accordancewith the under-noted formula and subject to theprovisions of the succeeding sub clause of thisparagraph.

The formula :

BulkRupees TB Range RupeesPacketRupees

Range-MTRange

-MT-MT

Less than 1020Less than 40 600.0Less than 100500

11-203041-45637.5100-150625

21-305046-50712.5151-200875

31-407051-55787.5201-2501125

41-509056-60862.5251-3001375

51-6011061-65937.5301-3501625

61-7013066-701012.5351-4001875

71-8015071-751087.5401-4502125

81-9017076-801162.5451-5002375

91-10019081-851237.5501-5502625

(i) The calculation on the above formula will be ona monthly basis and will be subject to a maximumpayment of Rs. 3,500/- per month

(ii) The above payment shall be payable by theEmployer to an Employee who is eligible toreceive the same by virtue of his service underthe Employer during a part of the year by reasonof the fact that he is not in the Employer'sservice when the payment becomes due inJanuary of any year of he joined the Employer'sService during the course of the qualifying year.(Qualifying period will be from January toDecember)

(iii) The above payment shall not be payable to anEmployee in respect of any period for which hereceived no wages for whatever reason.

(iv) The formula referred to above is based on thenumber of machines available and the capacityof the factory at present. Acquisition of newmachinery in the future by the employer, partiesagree to amend the formula referred to above.

(v) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or anyother payment shall be due or calculated on theabove payment.

18.Provident Fund

1) An Employer and Employee shall contribute tothe Provident Fund at rates prescribed by theEmployees' Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

2) Subject to the provisoins of the Employees TrustFund Act, No. 46 of 1980, where an Employerand Employee as at the date hereof werecontributing to a Provident Fund at rates morefavorurable than those prescribed by theEmployees' Provident Fund Act, the morefavourable rates of contribution will continue.

19.Skills Allowance

An allowance of Rs. 400/- per months will be paidto the employees who are identified for placementas Electricians and Mechanics, Similary, MachineOperaters, Forklift Operators and Quality Checkerswill be paid an allownace of Rs. 350/-, Thereafterwhen the Employees acquire vocationalqualifications prescribed by the company, subject tothem been placed in the relevant grade and re-designated, they will become entitled to a furtherincrease of Rs. 475/-, and Rs. 400/- respectively.The total amounts of Rs. 875/- (Electricians andmechanics) and Rs. 750/- (Mechine Operators,Forklift Operators and Quality Checkers) respectivlywill be consolidated in to the salary of eachemployee and the allowance will be discontinuedforthwith.

These employees who have already been entitled forthe aforementioned payments previously will be paidthe difference as indicated below and the followingamount will be consolidated to the salary with effetfrom 01st January 2017.

- Electricians and Mechanics : Rs. 300/-

- Machine Operators, Forklift Operators andQuality Checker Rs. 200/-The above training will be conducted by thecompany or by an Institute recommended by theCompany. The Company agrees to bear thecourse fee, if any

20.Terminal Benefits

1) Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided,pay terminal benefits to Employees inaccordance with the scheme of terminal benefitsset out in this Clause.

2) The scheme shall apply to every Employee inthe servce of an Employer on the First day ofJanuary Two Thousand Seventeen or who joinsthe service of an Employer on any day after the

First day of January Two Thousand Seventeenas long as this Agreement continues in force.

3) As and by way of terminal benefits the Employershall pay an Employee a sum equivalent to onemonth's wages for each year of service less theEmployer's contribution to the Provident andTrust Funds but excluding interest thereon.

4) The wage on which the said terminal benefitsunder sub-clause (3) hereof shall be payable willbe the last monthly wage receivable by anemployee on which Provident Fund is payableand shall not include any production bonuspayment made in lieu of NRCLG.

5) For the purpose of calculating terminal benefitsunder this Clause, an year of service shall be aperiod of not less than six months.

6) The terminal benefits provided for in this Clauseshall be payable to an Employee on the cessationof his services arising from death or any othercause whatsoever, Provided, however, that if atthe date of cessation of an employee's servicesthere is due to this Employer from the Employeeany sum on account of fraud, misappropriationor any other account and the same cannot berecovered from the amount to the Employee'scredit in the Provident Fund the same shall berecovered from the terminal benefits providedfor herein.

7) The provisions of this Clause shall not apply toEmployers who operate a more favourablescheme of terminal benefits.

8) On the death of an Employee whilst in service,who is eligible to receive terminal benefits underthis Clause, his Employer shall pay suchterminal benefits in the manner and to thepersons hereinafter set forth-

a) If there is a valid nomination in force forthe purpose of the deceased Employee'sProvident Fund at the date of his death, tothe nominee or nominees of suchEmployee in conformity with the form ofnomination where such nominee issurviving and of full age.

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

b) Where there is no valid nomination or inthe event of the nominee or in one or moreof the nominees having pre-deceased, theEmployee or in the event of a nomineebeing minor at the time that the paymentof the terminal benefits become due, theEmployer shall make payment only afterthe person or persons entitled to thepayment have established their claim inlaw and furnished proof thereof.

9) In the event of any written law providing for thepayment of gratuity or terminal benefits, themore favourable scheme shall apply but not both.

10) No employee shall be entitled to any gratuity orterminal benefits in addition to the terminalbenefits provided for in this Clause or by anywritten law as the case may be.

21.Bouns

1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemesand without prejudice to the Employer's claimthat bonus payments in the past and as providedin this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employerwill, subject as hereinafter provided, continueto pay to each of his Employees who have notbeen on unatuhorized absence, a bonus whichwill not be less than the sum of money paid tohim as his bonus for the year immediatelypreceding the signing of this Agreement. Inexceptional circumstances to be determined bythe management on a case by case basis, anemployee who had been on unauthorizedabsence may be considered for payment ofbonus. If in any year the Employer, at hisdiscretion, reduces the bonus to an amount lessthan the sum of money paid to each of hisEmployees as bonus for the year immediatelypreceding the signing of this Agreement, theUnion may canvass such reduction of bonus withthe Employer. If the Union is not satisfied bythe Employer in this matter, the Union maypursue this matter with the Federation. If thedispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settledwith the Federation, the same shall be referredto a Committee of three persons (hereinafterreferred to as “a Bonus Committee”) which shallbe constituted in accordance with the provisionsof sub-clause (2) for settlement in the mannerhereinafter set forth.

2) At the written request of the parties to thedispute, as to the reduction of the bonus, theCommissioner General of Labour willconstitute a Bonus Committee, which shallconsist of three Senior Accountants nominatedby the Council of the Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka.

The said Chartered Accountants shall be personswith at least 10 years' post qualificationsexperience, The slection of the three CharteredAccountants will be communicated by theInstitute of Chartered Accountants to theCommissioner General of Labour to theEmployer, the Union and the Federation.

Thereupon the Commissioner General ofLabour will communicate in writing to eachmember of the Bonus Committee soconstituted, a Statement of Principles andProcedure by which the members of the BonusCommittee shall be bound in settling the disputeas to the reduction of bonus.

3) Upon receipt of the submissions and theStatement of the Principles and Procedure fromthe Commissioner General of Labour, the BonusCommittee shall, in accordance with the saidPrinciples and Procedure, decide whether thereduction of the bonus by the Employer wasjustified and if the reduction was not justifiedto what extent, if any, the bonus should bereduced, The Bonus Committee shallcommunicate the decision in writing to theFederation and the Union and the CommissionerGeneral of Labour.

If the decision of the Bonus Committee isunanimous, such decision shall be final andbinding on the parties to the dispute and theUnion and/or its members shall not pursue thematter further by any form of Trade Union actionor otherwise during the continuance in force ofthis Agreement. If, however, the BonusCommittee is divided in its decision, then thedecision of the Commissiner General of Labouron the matter shall be final and binding on theparties to the dispute and the Commissioner'sdecision shall be communicated in writing bythe Commissioner General of Labour to theFederation, and the Union/or its members shall

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

not puruse the matter further by any form ofTrade Union action or otherwise during thecontinuance in force of this Agreement.

4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled norbe competent to decide that in any year theEmployer should pay his Employees a bonusexceeding the sum of money paid as bonus inthe year immediately preceding the signing ofthis Agreement.

5) The fees payable to the members of each BonusCommittee shall be borne equally by the partiesto the dispute as reduction of bonus and bepayable on demand by the CommissionerGeneral of Labour.

6) The payment of bonus exceeding the sum ofmoney paid as bonus to Employees in the yearimmediately preceding the signing of thisAgreement shall be at the sole discretion of theEmployer and shall not be called in question bythe Union or any of its members nor shall theEmployer's failure or refusal to pay such bonusbe the subject of any dispute.

7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4)(5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to theexisting bonus scheme.

At the request of the Commisioner General ofLabour, the Council of the Institute of ChartredAccountants of Sri Lanka will nominate threeChartered Accountants without less than 10years of post-qualification experience drawnfrom a professional Accountancy Firm to serveon the Bonus Committee.

22.Annual Increments

The annual increments provided in each grade of thescales of consolidated wage in the First Schedulehereto shall be automatic unless as a matter ofpunishment for general ineffeiciency includingirregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinaryaction on account of serious misconduct, anincrement is suspended, stopped or deferred, inwhich case where and increment is –

a) deferred - the loss of increment shall becontinuous throghout the year.

b) stopped - the loss of increment shall only befor the period of stoppage during the year.

c) suspended - the increment is suspended pendinga decision to defer to stop an increment, suchdecision being dependent upon a considerationof the factors giving rise to the suspension.Where on such decision an increment is neitherstopped nor deferred, then the suspension shallbe treated as waived and the full increment fromthe date of suspension thereof shall accrue tothe Employee concerned.

Deferred, stoppage or suspension of an incrementshall only be effected in cases where the Employeehas been notified in writing of a complaint againstsuch Employee and has been found guilty after dueinquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which,in the circumstances, does not merit termination ofemployment.

23.Warning

If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrantsa warning, the same shall be conveyed to theEmployee by letter, a duplicate of which shall besigned by the Employee. If the Employee refuses tosign the duplicate, the warning may be given to theEmployee orally by the Employer in the presenceof two witnesses.

24.Suspension

1) An employee may be suspended without pay byhis Employer–

a) Pending an inquiry to be held by suchEmployer on a charge or charges ofmiscondut which warrants dismissal.

b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace ordamage, the property or disturbance of thebusiness of the Employer.

c) As a punishment for misconduct for a periodnot exceeding seven (7) working days afterdue inquiry.

2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause(1)(a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereofthe Employer shall provide the Employee witha written order of suspension specifying thereasons for such suspensions and thereafter hold

10AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

an inquiry into the charge or charges in termsof Clause 25 thereof.

25. Disciplinary Action

Where an Employer proposes to proceed against anEmployee, then –

1) irrespective of whether an Employee has beensuspended under Clause 24 hereof or not, theEmployee shall be furnished with a show-cause,which shall set out the particluars of the chargeor charges of misconduct alleged against suchemployee and such show-cause notice shall givethe Employee not less than three (3) clearworking days in which to give the answer orexplanation to the charge or charges preferred.

2) within three (3) clear working days, after thedate of the show-cause notice, the Employeeshall furnish in writing to the Employer, theanswer or explanation to the charges preferredagainst such Employee, Provided, however thatif in the circumstances it is reasonable, theEmployee may ask the Employer for anextension of time within which to furnish thewritten answer or explanation to the show-causenotice and where such request is made by anEmployee to the Employer, the Employer shallgrant such request for such further period oftime as is deemed necessary in thecircumstances of the case.

3) if the Employer is satisfied with the writtenanswer or explanation of the Employee, theEmployee shall, if he is under suspensionforthwith, be reinstated and shall be paid allwages and entitlements due for the period ofsuch suspension.

4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the writtenanswer or explanation of the Emloyee to theshow-cause notice and such answer orexplanation is rejected by the Employer, theEmployer shall commence an inquiry within ten(10) working days from the date of receipt byhim of the written answer or explanation to theshow-casue notice.

5) after holding such inquiry, the Employer shallnotify the Employee of the findings on each ofthe charges in the show-cause notice and thepunishment, if any, imposed by the Employer,Provided that if any Employer fails to make anorder except for reasons beyond the control ofthe Employer on the charges in the show-causenotice within thirty (30) working days from theconclusion of the inquiry into such charges, theEmployer shall not be liable to be punishedthereafter in respect of such charges and noinference adverse to the Employee in respectof such charges shall be drawn from suchcharges.

6) if the Employee is under suspension and theEmployer after such inquiry makes order that-

a) the Employee shall not be dismissed thenthe Employee shall resume employmentforthwith and shall, subject to theprovisions of sub-clause 24(1)(c) hereofbe paid all wages and entitlements due forthe period of suspension irrespective ofsuch other punishment less than dismissalthat may be imposed by the Employer onthe findings as to the charges in the show-cause notice.

b) The Employee shall dismissed - TheEmployee's dismissal shall take effectfrom the date of the Employee'ssuspension and accordingly the Employershall not be paid for the period of suchsuspension.

c) In the view of the serious or involvednature of the charges in the show-causenotice against the Employee, theEmployer.

is unable to make a final order as it is necessaryand desirable that the matter be referred to thePolice or other authorities for furtherinvestigations or inquiries and that the matterbe therefore referred to the Police or otherauthorities or if in view of the serious orinvolved nature of the charges preferred againstthe employee, the matter had been previsoulyreferred to the Police or other authorities forinvestigation or inquiries that the outcome ofsuch investigation or inquiries be awaited, thenin either such circumstances, the Employee mayremain suspended without pay.

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

7) If in any case where an Employee is suspendedas provided for herein, an Employer fails tomake an Order under paragraph (a) to (c) of thepreceding sub-clause for any reason other thenthat of the Employee's own seeking within thirty(30) working days from the date of theEmployee's suspension, the Employee shall beentitiled to half his normal remunerations forthe period of thirty (30) days from the date ofsuch suspension and to his full remuneration forthe period of suspension in excess of thiry (30)days up to the date on which the Employermakes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) ofthre preceding sub-clause irrespective of theoutcome of the inquiry

8) In any case where an Employee is suspended, asprovided herein, the Employer shall make anorder under paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub-clause(6) within ninety (90) days of the date ofsuspension of the Employee unless he isprevented from so doing by reason of theEmployee's own seeking or for reasons beyondthe control of the Employer or it is agreedbetween the Federation and any of the Unionsthat in the circumstances of the case the periodninety (90) days be extended for such furthertime as may be agreed.

9) An Employer shall not be required to hold aninquiry as referred to in sub-clause (4) and (5)hereof where the Employer proposes to warnthe Employee or where the Employer admits tothe charge or charges, Provided, however, thatif the Union disputes the warning or punishment,imposd on the Employee by the Employer andrequests the holding of an inquiry, the employer.

shall comply with such request and theprovisions relating to the holding of an inquiryshall then apply subject to the exception that thefact that the inquiry had not commendced within(10) working days after receipt of theEmployee's explanation shall not be material orrelevant.

26.Retirement

On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years anEmployee shall, ipso facto, retire and cease to beemployed and there shall be no obligation on theEmployer to give the Employee any notice of suchretiremnt. Provided, however, that an employee who

has retired may, at the discretion of the Employer,be employed after his retirement on a temporarybasis on such terms as may be mutually agreed.

27.Termination of Service

1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for thehire of any Employee by the Employer, exceptfor work usually performed by the day or by thejob, or by the journey , shall (subject toprovisoins of Clause 5 hereof or unlessotherwise expressly stipulated) be deemed andtaken in law to be a contract for hire and servicefor the period of one month and to be renewablefrom month to month and shall be deemed andtaken in law to be so renewed unless one month'sprevious notice is given by either party to theother of his intention to determine the samesuch month has expired.

2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particularjob or period, such as casual or temporary work,he shall be informed thereof at thecommencement of his employment, and hiscontract of service will terminate on thecompletion of the job or period or on the failureof the employee to complete the job within areasonable time.

28.Union Recognition

The Union shall be comptetent to makerepresentations on behalf of its members who areemployed in any work place of the Employer inregard to issues of general application or to theeffect of principle such as matters affecting generalterms and conditions of employment, either in thework place or the trade as a whole, the followingprovisions shall apply :-

1) When the Union is reprsentative of not less thanforty per centum (40%) of the employees, whosmembership subscription is not in arrears, theEmployer will recognize the Union for thepurpose of general claims and matters andnegotiate with it on that basis. If there is anyother Union which is also representative of notless than forty per centum (40%) of suchEmployees, the Employer will be at liberty torequire that general claims and matters bediscussed and negotiated with all the Unionscompetent to make general demands by virtue

12AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

of the requisite membership and not separatelywith each such Union.

2) When the Employer carries on more than onetype of business or has more than one work placeand the claim or matter is restricted to one typeof business or one work place but is applicableor capable of being applicable to otherEmployees in the service of the Employer, thecompetence of the Union to make such claimor raise such matter shall be determined byreference to the duly qualified members of theEmployees in the service of the Employer inSri Lanka.

3) If it becomes necessary to decide the questionwhether at the establishment of the Employer,the Union is competent to make general claimsor raise general matters, the same shall bedetermined by a Referendum, which shall beheld by the Departmnt of Labour and the resultof such Referendum shall be binding on theEmployer and that Union and the parties hereto.

29.Disputes Procedure

1) In the first instance, the Union shall submit anydemand on behalf of its members to theEmployer and give the Employer at least ten (10)working days time within which to reply. If, inthe Union's opinion, the Employer's reply isunsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shallexplore the possibility of reaching a settlement.

2) Where the Union concludes that negotiationswith the Employer have been abortive, it shallask the Department of Labour to intervene andgive the Department not less than ten (10)working days to arrange Conference and/ordiscussions with a view to a settlement of thedispute. Negotiations under the aegis of theDepartment of Labour shall then proceed untilthe Depatment of Labour reports failure.

3) Subject to the provisions of Clause 32 thereof,all disputes between the Union and the Employershall be settled in accordance with the provsionsof the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulationsmade thereunder.

4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigatesupport or engage in any unfair labour practiceduring the currency of this Agreement.

30.How Anomalies in the course of Implementingthis Agreement shall be dealt with

Any anomaly arising from the implemenation of thisAgreement shall be settled by negotiation betweenrepresentatives of the Federation and the Union andif the matter cannot be settled by negotiation, thematter shall be settled in accordance with theprovisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and theregulations thereunder.

31.Trade Union Action

The Union and its members and the Employeescovered and bound by this Agreement jointly andseverally agree with the employer that during thecontinuance is force of this Agreement they shallnot engage in any strike or other form of Trade Unionaction against the Employer in respect of any TradeUnion action against the Employer in respect of anydispute between the Employer on the one hand andthe Union and/or its members and/or any employeescovered and bound by this Agreement on the otherhand, whether or not such dispute is related to thisAgreement, except where such disputes has beencaused by an act of an Employer which, in theopinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever namecalled) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive orcalculated to threaten or undermine the existenceor the legitimate activities of that Union and/or itsmembers or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimentalto the interests of the Union and or its members.

Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days' noticein writing shall be given by the Union to the Employerconcerned, the Federation and the CommissionerGeneral of Labour before the date of commencementof any intended strike or othr form of Trade Unionaction consequent to an act of an Employer which inthe opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoevername called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictiveor calculated to threaten or undermine the existenceor the legitimate activities of the Union and/or itsmembers or is grossly unfair or seriouslydetrimental to the interest of that Union and/or itsmembers.

32.Variations of Terms and conditions ofemployment benefits

1) The Union and its members and the Employeescovered and bound by the Agreement jointly andseverally agree with the Employer that during

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

the continuance in force of this Agreement, theywill not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any ofthe terms and conditions of employementpresently applicable to any of the Employeescovered and bound by this Agreement asamended or altered in terms of this Agreement,or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyedby any of the Employees covered and bound bythis Agreement other than by mutual agreement.

2) The Employer agrees with the Union and itsmembers and the Employees covered and boundby this Agreement that he shall not seek to vary,alter or withdraw all or any or the benefitspresently enjoyed by the employees covered andbound by this Agreement other than by mutualagreement.

3) Any dispute or difference arising fromnegotiations under the provisions of sub-clauses(1) or (2) may be resolved by voluntaryarbitration but only if all the parties concernedagree to submit such dispute or difference forsettlement by voluntary arbitration.

PART II

Containing the facilities an concessions granted bythe Employee to the Union

1.Breaches of Collective Ageement

If in the opinion of the employer the Union commitsa breach of any of the terms of this CollectiveAgreement, then and in any such event the Unionshall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities andconcessions granted by the Employer in thesucceeding clauses of this Part and the same shallstand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer'sright to restore such facilities and concessions uponsuch terms and conditions as the Employer maydecide.

2.Domestic Inquiries

If an Employee who is furnished with a show-causenotice in terms of Clause 25 is a member of theUnion, the following provisions shall apply to theinquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show-cause notice.

a) The Employer will subject as hereinafterprovided, allow a member of such Union

(hereinafter referred to as ‘Observer’) to bepresent as an Observer without loss of wagesfor absence from work.

b) If the Employee who is served with a show-cause notie desires an Observer to be present atthe inquiry to be held pursuant to such show-cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours atleast before the time appointed for thecommencement of the inquiry submit to theEmployer the name of such Observer.

c) An Observer may answer any question which theperson who conducts the inquiry may ask him,but an Observer shall not be entitled to representthe Employee who is served with a show-causenotice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall beentitled to require an Observer who obstructssuch inquiry in any manner whatsoever towithdraw therefrom and an Observer shallforthwith comply with such requirement.

e) The absence of an Observer from the whole orpart of an inquiry for any reasons whatsoevershall not vitiate such inquiry nor the proceedingsthere at nor the findings pursuant thereto.

3.Union Meetings

The following provisions shall apply to meetings ofthe Union :

a) In respect of each meeting, which the Uniondesires to hold at the Employer's premises, anapplication for permission shall be previouslymade to the Employer.

b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, theEmployer shall be entitied to impose, inter alia,one or more the under-noted conditions.

I.That no person other than an Employee inthe services of the Employer shall bepresent at a meeting of the Union.

II.On occasions such as the Annual GeneralMeeting of the Union, the Office Bearersof the Parent Union may, with the previousapproval of the Employer, attend.

14AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

III.Fix a time limit within which a meeting ofthe Union shall be concluded or adjourned.

c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its OfficeBearers to ensure that the terms on whichpermission to hold a meeting of such Union isgranted, are duly complied with.

d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its OfficeBearers to ensure that no damage is caused inthe course of or in connection with a meting ofthe Union to the Employer's property or anyother persons at the Employer's premises andthe Unioin shall indemnify the Employer andkeep the Employer indemnified against any suchdamage.

4.Duty Leave

The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :

1) Without prejudice to the right of the Employerto refuse to grant premission if, at his discretionthe exigencies of the circumstances warrantsrefusal, the Employer will generally grantpermission for not less than two Office Bearersof the Union

a) to be present at the Conference held underthe aegis of the Employer or theEmployers' Federation of Ceylon or theDepartment of Labour in connection witha dispute between the Union and theEmployer.

or

b) to attend inquiries before IndustrialCourts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunalswithout loss of wages for such absence.

2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leavewithout remuneration to an Employee to attenda trade union course of seminar or conferenceeither in Sri Lanka or abroad unless theEmployee concerened is entitled to Annual orother holidays which he wishes to utilize for thepurpose.

5.Check - off

1) This Clause shall apply to the Employer if in hisCompany the membership of the Union is not

less than forty per centum (40%) of theemployees covered and bound by this CollectiveAgreement.

2) The Employer shall, on the written request ofan employee, deduct from the wages due to suchEmployee the current monthly Union dues asare specified by the employee to be payablemonthly by the Employee to the Union and remitthe amount as deducted to the Union, inaccordance with the procedure and upon andsubject to the conditions here in after set forth.

3) Every Employee who agrees to the deductionof Union dues from his wages shall sign astatement to that effect in the form set out inForm No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as an“Authorisation”) as set out in the First Schedulehereto.

4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdrawhis agreement to check-off at any time by signinga statement to that effect in the form set out inForm No. 2 (hereinafter referred to as a“Revocation”) as set out in the First Schedulehereto.

5) As far as practicable deduction under anauthorisation shall commence from the wagesdue immediately after the date of receipt of suchauthorization and shall continue therafter untilthe authorization is cancelled by a revocation.

6) As far as practicable deduction under anauthorization shall cease from the date of receiptof a revocation cancelling such authorization.Provided however

a) that an employer shall not be liable in anymanner whatsoever to the Union or theEmployee concerned for failure to complywith sub-clauses (5) or (6).b) that, at his discretion, the Employer shallbe entitled not to make deductions by wayof check-off in any month in which thededuction by way of check-off , willtogether with all other deductions fromthe Employee's wages in that month exceedthe deductions permitted by law.

7) The Employer shall not lesser than the tenth dayof each month remit the Union dues deduction

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

from the wages of the employees in the monthimmediately preceding to the Treasurer of theUnion in accordance with the tenor of eachauthorisation by a cheque payable to theTreasures thereof and crossed “Account Payee”.

8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Unionand the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope, addressed to the treasurer of theUnion at its address for the time being.

9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly

acknowledge receipt of the cheque.

10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay the the

Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as

aforesaid, any sum other than the Union dues

actually deducted.

FORM No. 1

Name of Employer

Authorisation

As I am an employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement affecting Employees employed in a mannual orlabouring capacity in the .....................................................Trade and bearing No........................................... of 2017 and Idesire to avail myself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as amember of the ............................................................Union.

Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees .................................................................... (Rs...............) inrespect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. Thefirst payment should pleace be made from my wages next due, immediately following the date hereof.

..............................................................Date of SigningSignature of Employee

..........................................(Full name of Employer)

Received on ........................................

(To be filled by employer)

16AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

FORM No. 2

Name of Employer .....................................................................................................................................................................

Revocation

With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, pleace cease to deduct from my wages any further membership duesin favour of ...........................................................Union with effect from the wages next due to me, immediately followingthe date hereof.

..............................................................Date of SigningSignature of Employee

..........................................(Full name of Employer)

Received on........................................

(To be filled by employer)

PART III

Containing Definitions of Certain Words

In parts I and II of this Agreement, unless excluded by the subject or content, the following words shall have the meaningset opposit to them :

WordsMeaning

Branch UnionThe Branch Union of the United Tea, Rubber & Local ProduceWorkers' Union covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.

Check - offThe act of the Employer deducting at the request of the Union,subsecription payable to the Union by an Emloyee from the latter's paywith his concurrence.

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in Industrial Disputes Act.

EmployeeAn employee convered and bound by(for convernience sometimes)

Referred to as he or its grammaticalThis Agreementvariations)

Industrial Disputes ActThe industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950

Normal Incremental DateThe date on which an employee would normally receive an increment.

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

WordsMeaning

UnionUnited Tea, Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union

WageThe monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in theFirst Schedule hereto.

WeekThe period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on thesuceeding Saturday night.

YearA continuous period of twelve (12) months.

Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine, Words importing the singular number shall include theplural and vice versa.

In Witness whereof the parties aforementioned have hereunto set their hands at Colombo. G. S. Jayasinghe, ExecutiveDirector for & on behalf of Finlay Properties (Private) Ltd, and D. W. Subasinghe, General Secretary for & on behalf ofUnited Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union on this 24th day of April Two Thousand Eighteen.

........................................................................G. S. JayasingheD. W. SubasingheExecutive DirectorGeneral SecretaryFinlay Properties (Pvt.) LtdUnited Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union

....................................Coralie PieterszExecutive DirectorFinaly Properties (Pvt.) Limited

Wintesses :

1.Name : 1. Dhaniskka Dharmarathe1.Name : K. M. S. N. RathnayakeDesignation : Manager - HRDesignation : Branch President

2.Name : 2. Chaminda Waduge2.Name : S. Y. A. S. SilvaDesignation : Manager ProductionDesignation : Branch Secretary

11 - 803

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA