==== BLOCKS ==== 

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'07'29PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2024 1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART III – LANDS

Land Acquisition Notices

wxl 2395$02 – 2024 cQ,s ui 29 jeks i÷od – 2024'07'29No. 2395/02 – MONDAY, JULY 29, 2024

THE LAND ACQUISITION ACT (CHAPTER 460)

Declaration under Section 5

I, Nalaka Jude Harin Fernando, Minister of Tourism and Lands, hereby declare, under Sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act, that the lands described below are needed for a public purpose and will be acquired under the provisions of that.

The allotments of land described as follwing names and extents depicted in the Advance Tracing No. KE/RWN/2018/272 and dated 30.05.2019 prepared by the Surveyor General, situated at the Village of peterhillgama, in Siyambalawala Grama Niladhari Division, No. 100B,in Mogodagoda pattuwa Minor Division, in the Divisional Secretary's Division of Ruwanwella in Kegalle District,Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows,

01. Lot zAZ - Peterhill Estate- Extent : 0.0499 Hectare North: Peterhill Estate Lot B; East : Lot B and Jambugahamulahena; South: Jambugahamulahena and Peterhill Estate; West: Peterhill Estate.

02. Lot zBZ - Peterhill Estate- Extent : 0.0098 Hectare North: Peterhill Estate; East : Peterhill Estate and Jambugahamulahena; South: Jambugahamulahena and Lot A; West: Peterhill Estate.

Harin Fernando, Minister of Tourism and Lands.

My No. : 4-3/9/2017/WS/84.Ministry of Tourism and Lands,''Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Road,Battaramulla.04th March, 2024.

EOG 07 - 0273

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A – G 042333 – 61 (07/2024)

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'07'29PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2024 2A

THE LAND ACQUISITION ACT (CHAPTER 460)

Declaration under Section 5

I, Nalaka Jude Harin Fernando, Minister of Tourism and Lands, hereby declare, under Sub-section (1) of Section 5 of the Land Acquisition Act, that the lands described below are needed for a public purpose and will be acquired under the provisions of Land Acquisition Act.

The allotments of land in the names and extents below mentioned, in the Advance Tracing No. KU/KRN/2021/485 and dated 27.08.2022 prepared by the Surveyor General, situated at the Villages of Olupeliyawa, Ogodapola and Ganegedara in 830-Madithiyawela Grama Niladhari Division in the Divisional Secretary's Division of Kurunegala in the District of Kurunegala in the North- Western Province and bounded on the,

01. Lot zAZ - Kirimetiya Stream - Extent : 0.6605 Hectare North: Maguruoya, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by T.M.P.Sudumenike, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by S. M. Nimanka Thilakarathna and others. Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by T. M. Mayurasena, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by Nimal Kanthi Menike, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by T. M. Niluka Damayanthi, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by M.Samantha Kumara Makavita Ogodapolawaththa, which is claimed by D.Roopasinghe, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by R. M. Karunathilaka, Ogodapolawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Ogodapolawaththa which is claimed by I. L. Nandasena, Ambagahamula waththa which is claimed by R. M. Karunathilaka Hapugahahenyaya which is claimed by J. M. Chandrasekara, Diddeniyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant and Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by D.Perera; East : Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by D. Perera, road, Lot B and Diddeniyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant; South: Diddeniyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by Willson Peiris Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by I. T. Kusumawathi, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by I. D. Roopa Ranjani, road, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by I. G. Jayathissa. Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by F. Shanthi Sakaraja, Channel, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by I. L. Nandasena, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by the nun Dhammadinna, Diddeniyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by

R. M. S. Rathnayaka, road, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by W. M. Jayasinghe, Diddeniyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by M. D.Amith Priyadarshna, Diddeniyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by D. M. Dingiri Amma Channel, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by W. A. A. N.Watareka and Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by U. Dharmasiri; West: Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by W. A. A. N.Watareka, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by U. Dharamasiri, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by W. M. S. Priyadarshani, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by Nandani De Silva, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by 'Eksath' welfare society of Diddeniyawaththa and Maguru Oya.

02. Lot zBZ - Extent : 0.0013 Hectare North: Lot A and Road; East : Lot C; South: Lot C and Road; West: Road and Lot A.

03. Lot zCZ - Kirimetiya Stream - Extent : 0.2763 Hectare North: Lot B and Road, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by D. Perera, Borukgamuwawaththa which is claimed by K. D Nadawathi and others, Borukgamuwawaththa which is Not Known the claimant, Lot D, J and AD; East : Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by D. H. A. Madhusha Dilanka Perera, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by D. H. A.Thilina Nilanka Perera, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by Jayampathi Lanka Company; South: Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by Jayampathi Lanka Company, Dambokkawaththa which is unable to search the claim and Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by K. Weerasinghe; West: Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by K. Weerasinghe, road, Lot B, Diddeniyawaththa which is claimed by D. Perera, Borukgamuwawaththa which is claimed by K. D. Nandawathi and others and Borukgamuwawaththa which is unable to search the claimant.

04. Lot zDZ - Ganegedara Stream - Extent : 0.0614 Hectare North: Lots E and F, Kirimetiyapitiyahena which is claimed by K. W. Jasintha Perera, Lots G and H; East : Lots L and K, Thuththiripitiyawaththa which is claimed by K. V. M. N.C. Perera and Lot J; South: Thuththiripitiwaththa is claimed by K. V. M. N.C. Perera, Lots J,AD and C; West: Borukgamuwawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Kirimetiyapitiyahena which is claimed by K. W. Jasintha Perera, Lots E and F.

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'07'29PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2024 3A

05. Lot zEZ - Kirimetiyapitiyahena - Extent : 0.0232 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land, Kirimetiyapitiyahena which is claimed by K. W. jasintha Perera and Lot F; East and South: Lot D; West: Remaining portion of the same land and the cemetery which is claimed by Romam catholic church of Malpitiya.

06. Lot zFZ - Kirimetiyapitiyahena - Extent : 0.0169 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land; East : Lots G and D; South: Lots D and E; West: Kirimetiyapitiyahena which is claimed by K. W. jasintha Perera and remaining portion of the same land.

07. Lot zGZ - Kirimetiyapitiyahena - Extent : 0.0042 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land, road of provincial council and Lot H; East : Lot D; South: Lots D and F; West: Remaining portion of the same land.

08. Lot zHZ - Extent : 0.0043 Hectare North: Road of Provincial Council, Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is claimed by U.K Don Bonipayas, Lots AB and AC; East : Lots AB and AC,M and L; South: Lots L, K, D and G; West: Kirimetiyapitiyahena which is claimed by K. W. jasintha Perera and Provincial Council Road.

09. Lot zJZ - Thuththiripitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0295 Hectare North: Lots D and K; East : Remaining portion of the same land; South: Remaining portion of the same land and Lots AD and C; West: Lot D.

10. Lot zKZ - Thuththiripitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0098 Hectare North: Lots D, H and L; East : Provincial Council Road and Remaining portion of the same land; South: Remaining portion of the same land and Lot J; West: Lot D.

11. Lot zLZ - Extent : 0.0023 Hectare North: Lot AC and M; East : Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant and Provincial Council Road; South: Thuththiripitiyawaththa which is claimed by K. V. M. N.C. Perera and Lot K; West: Lots D and H.

12. Lot zMZ - Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0082 Hectare North: Lot AC; East : Lots Z, N and Road; South:

Remaining portion of the same land and Provincial Council Road; West: Lots L, H and AC.

13. Lot zNZ - Extent : 0.0015 Hectare North: Lot AA, Z and T; East : Lot P; South: Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is claimed by K. V. D. R. Perera and Road; West: Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant and Lot M.

14. Lot zPZ - Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0052 Hectare North: Lot T; East : Lot Q; South: Thennehenawaththa which is claimed by U. K. D. R. S. Senavirathna and U. K. D. Pushpa Sriyani and Remaining portion of the same land; West: Road and Lot N.

15. Lot zQZ - Thennehenawaththa - Extent : 0.0189 Hectare North: Lot T and R; East : Asweddum paddy ﬁ eld is claimed by S. G. Sujeewa Ganegedara and Remaining portion of the same land; South: Remaining portion of the same land; West: Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is claimed by K. V. D. R. Perera and Lots P and T.

16. Lot zRZ - Asweddumkumbura - Extent : 0.0158 Hectare North: Lots T and S; East : Asweddumkumbura is claimed by Eranda Dissanayake Ganegedara and Remaining portion of the same land; South: Remaining portion of the same land, Thennehenawaththa which is claimed by U. K. D. R. S. Senavirathna and U. K. D. Pushpa Sriyani; West: Lots Q and T.

17. Lot zSZ - Asweddumkumbura - Extent : 0.0124 Hectare North: Lot T; East : Proposeed central Express Way and Remaining portion of the same land; South: Remaining portion of the same land, Asweddumkumbura which is claimed by. S. P. Sujeewa Ganegedara; West: Lots R and T.

18. Lot zTZ - Ganegedara Stream - Extent : 0.0973 Hectare North: Lot Z, Y, X, Mahawelakumbura which is claimed by U. K. Lilian Udugama and others, Lots W and V, Mahawelakumbura which is claimed by U. K. Anthony Mahinda and Lot U; East : Mahawelakumbura which is claimed by U. K. Anthony Mahinda and Proposeed Central Experwss Way and Lot S, R, Q; South: Lots S, R, Q and P; West: Lots N and Z.

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'07'29PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2024 4A

19. Lot zUZ - Mahawelakumbura - Extent : 0.0025 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land ; East : Proposed Central Express Way; South: Lot T; West: Remaining portion of the same land.

20. Lot zVZ - Mahawelakumbura - Extent : 0.0031 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land ; East : Lot T; South: Lot T and W; West: Mahawelakumbura which is claimed by U. K. Lilian Udugama and others and Remaining portion of the same land.

21. Lot zWZ - Mahawelakumbura - Extent : 0.0017 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land and Mahawelakumbura which is claimed by U. K. Anthony Mahinda; East : Lots V and T; South: Lots T and X; West: Remaining portion of the same land.

22. Lot zXZ - Mahawelakumbura - Extent : 0.0061 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land; East : Lots W and T; South: Lots T and Y; West: Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant and Remaining portion of the same land.

23. Lot zYZ - Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0051 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land and Mahawelakumbura which is claimed by U. K. Lilian Udugama and others; East : Lots X and T; South: Lots T and Z; West: Road and Remaining portion of the same land.

24. Lot zZZ - Not Mentioned - Extent : 0.0220 Hectare North: Road, Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant and Lot Y; East : Lot T; South: Lots T and N; West: Lots AC, AA and Road.

25. Lot zAAZ - Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0051 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land; East : Road and Lot Z; South: Lot AC; West: Lot AB and Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is clamant by U. K. Don Bonipayas.

26. Lot zABZ - Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa - Extent : 0.0036 Hectare North: Remaining portion of the same land; East :

Kirimetiyapitiyawaththa which is unable to search the claimant and Lots AA and AC; South: Lot AC; West: Lot H Road of Provincial Council and Remaining portion of the same land.

27. Lot zACZ - Ganegedara Stream - Extent : 0.0154 Hectare North: Lots AB and AA; East : Lots Z and N; South: Lots M and H; West: Lots H and AB.

28. Lot zADZ - Kirimetiya Stream - Extent : 0.3037 Hectare North: Thuththiripitiya waththa which is claimed by K.V.M.N.C.Perera, Thuththiripitiya waththa which is claimed by C.I.C.Mission Church, Thuththiripitiya waththa which is claimed by D.T.P.K. Thirimanna, Thuththiripitiya waththa which is claimed by K.V.D.R. Perera and others, Thuththiripitiya waththa which is claimed by B. Ruwan Mahinda Perera.; East : Road which is claimed by Road Development Authority and Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by S.A. Wijekody; South: Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by S.A.Wijekody, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by B.Ruwan Mahinda Perera, Dambokkawaththa which is unable to search the claimant, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by Ruwan Mahinda Perera, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by D.H.A.Madhoosha Dilanka Perera and Lot C; West: Lot J and Thuththiripitiyawaththa which is claimed by K.V.N.C. Perera.

29. Lot zAEZ - Olupeliyawa Stream - Extent : 0.3634 Hectare North: Olupeliyawa waththa which is claimed by K.V.M.N.C.Perera, Olupeliyawa waththa which is claimed by E.A.Chamil Prasad Alwis. Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by S.Movan Krishantha Senapathi, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by S.A.Wickramasinghe, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by T.M.Pemawathi, Olupeliyawayaya which is unable to search the claimant, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by T.M.Anura Thennekoon, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by T.M.Rathnayake and road.; East : Road, Lot "AF", Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by J.M.Ananda Samaraweera, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M.Muthubanda, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by Thilakarathne Banda, Korawakmulla land which is claimed by Wasantha Ganegedara, stream, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by Mahendra Ranasinghe; South: Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by J.M.Ananda Samaraweera, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M.Muthubanda, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to

III fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'07'29PART III – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.07.2024 5A

search the claimant, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by Thilakarathne Banda, Korawakmulla land which is claimed by Wasantha Ganegedara, stream, Dambokkawaththa which is claimed by Mahendra Ranasinghe; West: Road which is claimed by Road Development Authority, Olupeliyawa waththa which is claimed by K.V..N.C.Perera, Olupeliyawa waththa which is claimed by E.A.Chamil Prasad Alwis, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by S.Movan Krishantha Senapathi, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by S.A. Wickramasinghe, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by T.M.Pemawathi.

30. Lot zAFZ - Extent : 0.0027 Hectare North: Road, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by D.M.Anoma Kumari Dissanayake and Lot AG; East : Lot AG, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant and road ; South: Road, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by J.M. Ananda Samaraweera and Lot AE; West: Lot AE and road.

31. Lot zAGZ - Olupeliyawa Stream - Extent : 0.2818 Hectare North: Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by D.M.Anoma Kumari Dissanayake, Olupeliyawa waththa which is unable to Search the claimant, Olupeliyawa waththa which is claimed by Hasith Mallikage, Olupeliyawa waththa which is claimed by L.B.Dias, stream and Olupeliyawa waththa which is unable to search the claimant.; East : Stream, No. 823-Nailiya Grama Niladhari Division, Katti Ela, Pinkumbura which is claimed by A.B. Wimaladasa, Lot AH and Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant; South: Lot AH, Pinkumbura which is claimed by A.B. Wimaladasa, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by

R.W.T.M.K. B. Olupeliyawa, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by Indrani Olupeliyawa, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M. Thennakoon Banda, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M.Somapala, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M.Muthubanda, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M.Somapala, Madithiyawelayaya which is claimed by M.M.Muthubanda, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant and road; West: Road, Madithiyawelayaya which is unable to search the claimant, Lot AF, Olupeliyawayaya which is claimed by D.M.Anoma Kumari Dissanayake and Olupeliyawa waththa which is unable to search the claimant.

32. Lot zAHZ - Pinkumbura - Extent : 0.0218 Hectare North: Lot AG; East : Katti Ela and remaining portion of the same land; South: Remaining portion of the same land; West: Lot AG.

Harin Fernando, Minister of Tourism and Lands.

My No. : 4-3/7/2021/HW/21.Ministry of Tourism and Lands,''Mihikatha Medura", No. 1200/6,Rajamalwaththa Road,Battaramulla.12th March, 2024.

EOG 07 - 0274

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.