==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'11PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.10.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2092$61 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 11 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'10'11

No. 2092/61 - THURSDAY OCTOBER 11, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Motor Traffic Statute of the Western Province Provincial Council

THE draft of the Statute of the Motor Traffic of Western Province Provincial Council is mentioned below.

KEJITAN LALITH WANIGARATHNE,

Minister of the Western Provincial Roads,Transport, Co-operative Development andTrade, Housing and Constructions, Estate

Infrastructure Facilities, Industry and

Rural Development.

At the Ministry of Western Provincial Roads, Transport,Co-operative Development and Trade, Housingand Constructions, Estate Infrastructure Facilities,Industry and Rural Development,No. 204, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla.08th of October, 2018.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A PG 4279 — 12 (10/2018)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'11PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.10.20182 A

Motor Traffic Statute of the Western Province Provincial Council

A Statute to issue licenses for the Motor vehicles within Western Province, levy license fees relevantthereto, repeal the Statute of Western Provincial Motor Traffic No. 07 of 1991 and to provide provision forthe incidental matters thereto.

BE it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaas follows:-

1.This Statute may be cited as the Motor Traffic Statute of the Western Province, No. ........... of 2018and shall come into operation on receiving the assent of the Governor of the Western Province.

2.For the function of this statute, Western Provincial Department of Motor traffic (Hereinafter referredto as the ''Department") shall be constituted hereby.

3.The objective of the Department shall be acting to levy any fees of motor vehicles relevant tolicense within the limitations that might be directed by law in respect of the Western Provincialmotor vehicles; subject to certain releases.

4. (1)Western Provincial Commissioner of Motor Traffic whom shall be appointed to operate anddischarge the functions of the Department and whom shall be hereinafter referred to as the"Commissioner" shall be the Head of the Department.

(2)For the functions mentioned in this statute, Western Provincial Deputy Commissioner ofMotor Traffic, Western Provincial Assistant Commissioners of Motor Traffic, Motor TrafficInspectors and other positions that might be needed shall be appointed from time to time.

(3)In respect of the appointments made under this section, provision of the amended ProvincialCouncil Act, No. 42 of 1987, amended from time to time shall be applied.

(4)The Commissioner, shall act in subjection to the ordinary command and administration of theSecretary of the Ministry.

5.The Commissioner could be able to delegate any powers vested upon the Commissioner under thisstatute to a public officer of the Department or to any other public officer.

6.Powers and fuctions of the Commissioner shall be as undermentioned.

(1)levying fee with adherence to the relevant amount and the procedure as directed by law; fora revenue license, vendor's license, a visitor's temporary license for a motor vehicle or anyother motor vehicle license of a motor vehicle which is in possession or use of anybodywhose residence is in the Western Province, issuing relevant licenses for the levied feesaccording to the provision mentioned in the relevant law and taking actions to levy anyunpaid fees for a motor vehicle license adhering to the provision provided under this statute.

(2)Where the powers owned by any authority mentioned in law regarding Motor vehicles; aredelegated by the relevant authority as mentioned in the said law, executing the relevantpowers with adherence to the extent of such delegation.

(3)Taking administrative actions using modern technology necessary for engaging in above6(1) and 6(2) shall be a function of the Commissioner.

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

Constitution oftheDepartments.

Objectives oftheDepartment.

Powers andfunctions of theCommissioner.

Head of theDepartment.

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'11PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.10.2018

(4)Providing transport services to carry passengers via the roads of Western Province by motorvehicles, regularizing the goods transportation and providing transport facilities viainterprovincial roads.

(5)Powers and fuctions of the Commissioner, any decision or decisions made by above law andactions, shall not be in subjection to the personal liability.

7. (1)Every application for any license, temporary license for a provincial motor vehicle shall beapplied adhering to the provision mentioned in the relevant written law.

(2)Every application for a license shall be processed having paid the due license fee either to thecommissioner or to the License Issuing Authority for whom the power has been delegatedspecifically for it by the commissioner.

(3)No license shall be issued by the commissioner or the license issuing Authority, if the due fee,which is for the license, has not been paid or the applicant has not duly fulfilled the relevantprovision thereto.

(4)Levying license fee under this statute and issuing relevant licenses shall be in subjectionwithin the limitations and releases directed by law.

8. (1)As directed by law, any vehicle that belongs to Western Province under any motor vehiclelicense or temporary license, the relevant license obtained by duly paying the license fee shallnot be kept in possession and shall not be used by anybody in an occasion where the relevantlicense in non-enforceable.

(2)Registrar of Motor Traffic, Commissioner of Motor Traffic, Government Agents of Gampaha,Colombo and Kaluthara districts or a vehicle that belongs to the Western Province shall beconsidered as the Authority of registering a motor vehicle for the function of this section.

(3)However mentioned in 7(3), at particular circumstances, a departmental committee appointedby the Secretary of the Ministry could decide on the levying or non-levying of fees.

9. (1)In case of not paying license fees for the motor vehicle license or temporary license whichshall be obtained for a vehicle that belongs to Western Province under this statute, therelevant person who has the ownership of the vehicle or the person who is keeping thevehicle in possession should be informed by sending a written notice certified by thecommissioner or the officer for whom the power has been specifically delegated; mentioningthe license fee, surcharge levied based on the non-payment and total amount of the feeincluding the last date given for making the payment.

The maximum period of time provided for making the payment under the above subsection,shall be a date that does not exceed a time period of 30 days from the date of issuing the notice.

(2)Where the amounts of fee as stated by a notice mentioned under the section (1) of this sectionin not paid by a person as mentioned in the notice, a certificate that is consisted with; totalamount of fee to be levied, name of the relevant person, registered ownership of the vehicle orthe residence and the business adderss depending on the situation shall be presented by thecommissioner or the officer for whom the power has been specifically delegated; to theMagistrate Court at the jurisdiction of the relevant address mentioned in the certificate.Subsequently, that person shall be summoned by the Magistrate to show cause before him.Further, if that person fails to present satisfying causae thereto, the amount of fee mentionedin the certificate shall be levied from the defaulter as the penalty, as a fine prescribed by ordersand the fine shall be credited to the provincial council fund.

Paying licensefees

Applying for alicense, Issuingof licenses.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'11PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 11.10.20184 A

10. (1)Regulations shall be made by the Minister regarding any factors that are for operating theobjectives of the Department under this statute including deciding the relevant procedures tooperate the provision mentioned in 7th, 8th and 9th sections of this statute.

(2)Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall have aneffect either on the date of publishing it or on a coming date mentioned in the Gazette.

(3)After publishing the regulations made by the Minister in the Gazette, that should be sent tothe Provincial Council immediately for the approval, Provincial Council shall approve thoserules and it shall be notified by gazette notification.

In case of non-approving, that shall also be notified by a gazette notification and since thatday onwards, those regulations shall be considered as repealed without causing any prejudiceto the actions taken so far thereunder.

11. (1)Since the date of receiving the approval of the Governor of Western Province for this statute,Western Provincial Motor Traffic Statute No. 07 of 1991 of Western Province ProvincialCouncil shall be repealed hereby

(2)However, (a)All movable and immovable properties;(b)All assets and liabilities;(C)All responsibilities and engagements;

Which were prossessed by the Department of Motor Traffic of Western Province establishedunder the Western Provincial Motor Traffic Statute No. 07 of 1991 shall be considered as themovable and immovable properties, assets and liabilities, responsibilities and engagements ofthe Department under this statute.

(3)Shall be considered as the functions performed under the Western Provincial Motor TrafficStatute No. 07 of 1991.

(4)Every case filed by the Department or filed against the Department under the Western ProvincialMotor Traffic Statute No. 07 of 1991 shall be considered as the cases filed under this statute.

12. In this statute, Unless the Context otherwise requires-

“Governor" means the Governor of the Western Province,

“The Minister”means the minister in - charge of the Motor Traffice Subject,

“Secretary of the Ministry”means the Secretary to the Ministry under which the WEster ProvincialMotor Traffic Subject Comes,

“Motor Vehicles”means the same interpretation given in Motor Traffic Act,

“Law means the Motor Traffic Act No. 14 of 1951 which was amended from time to time and any ActPassed by the parliament for the function of the said Act or relevant incidentals.

13. In the event of any inconsistency in the sinhala and Tamil text, Sinhala text shall prevail.

10 - 1408

InterimProvisions

Interpretation

Sinhala Text toPrevail in case ofinconsistency

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Power ofmakingregulations