w;s úfYI

wxl 2379$02 - 2024 wfma%,a ui 08 jeks i÷od - 2024.04.08No. 2379/02 - monday, April 08, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

L.D.B. 4/2007(II)

THE AYURVEDA ACT, No. 31 OF 1961

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health under Section 82 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 read with Sections 7 (g) 10, 77 and Part VI of the aforesaid Act.

Dr. Ramesh Pathirana, Minister of Health.03.04.2024,Colombo.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the Ayurveda Code for Ayurveda Medicine and Surgery Regulations, 2024 and shall come into operation on 08th April 2024 (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AYURVEDA MEDICINE AND PRODUCTION REGULATORY COUNCIL

2. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”), an Ayurveda Medicine and Production Regulatory Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Regulatory Council”).

1A- PG 6690 - 104 (04/2024) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.20242A

(2) The Regulatory Council shall, by the name assigned to it by sub-regulation (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.

3. For the purposes of these regulations (hereinafter referred to as “the Code”) -

(a) the articles, substances or drugs as specified in Part II of Schedule I hereto are hereby declared as “declared article, substance or drug”; and(b) the plants as specified in the Part I of Schedule I hereto are hereby declared as “declared medicinal plants”;

in terms of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (j) of Subsection (1) of Section 77 of the Act.

4. The objects of the Regulatory Council shall be to -

(a) regulate all matters relating to the cultivation of declared medicinal plants and the manufacturing, preparation, importation, exportation, purchasing, storing, distribution, sale, advertising, transportation, supply and quality control of any Ayurveda product or any declared article, substance or drug :

(i) which are used in Ayurveda medicine and used in Ayurveda surgery; or

(ii) which may be obtained over the counter without a prescription;

(b) the regulation of all matters relating to:

(i) the cultivation of declared medicinal plants; or

(ii) the manufacturing, preparation, importation (other than Cannabis), exportation, purchase, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, transportation, supply and quality control of Cannabis, opium and poisons, minerals, animal matter, goods or other dangerous drugs as determined by the Regulatory Council,

to the extent they are required in Ayurveda medicine and surgery;

(c) the regulation of all matters relating to obtaining of the registration, approval, or issuance of licences, certificates, or permits, as the case may be, required to carry out activities referred to under preceding paragraphs (a) or (b) subject to the provisions of the Act and, any regulations made thereunder and in accordance with the provisions of any other written law, subject to such terms and conditions relating to such registration, approval or as specified in such licences, certificates or permits;

(d) monitoring and overseeing of activities carried out by the persons who obtained registration, or approval or the holders of licences, certificates and permits referred to in paragraph (c) with a view to maintain the standards of products and services provided by them;

(e) the reference of any matter under its purview and to obtain recommendations on such matters from any authority including-

(i) the Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine; (ii) the Committee on Evaluation of Ayurveda Manufactories and Stores; (iii) the Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets; and(iv) the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants; established under this Part;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

3A

(f) the carrying out of the surveys on quality, safety and adverse effects of any declared article, substance, drug or Ayurveda product available in the market;

(g) the documentation of information pertaining to all registration, approval, or issuance of licences, certificates, or permits issued by the Regulatory Council annually.

5. The Regulatory Council shall consist of-

(a) the following ex-officio members, namely:

(i) the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda (hereinafter referred to as the “Commissioner-General”); and

(ii) the Additional Commissioner-General (Technical) of Ayurveda appointed under Subsection (2) of Section 3 of the Act;

(b) The following members appointed by the Minister, namely;

(i) Four Ayurveda Practitioners attached to the Department of Ayurveda, qualified in Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Deshiya Chikithsa system of medicine disciplines, respectively;

(ii) Three Senior Academics who are Professors or senior Lecturers in the subjects of Materia

Medica, or Pharmaceutics in Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani disciplines in a recognized State University;

(iii) Four Registered Ayurveda Practitioners; and

(iv) Four persons excelled in, and representing the fields of Law, Accounting, Management and Chemistry, respectively.

6. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be the Chairman of the Regulatory Council.

(2) Members of the Regulatory Council shall elect one member among themselves as the Vice Chairman of the Regulatory Council.

(3) Chairman of the Regulatory Council, or in his absence, the Vice Chairman of the Regulatory Council shall preside at every meeting of the Regulatory Council.

(4) In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman at any meeting of the Regulatory Council, any member elected by the members present shall preside at such meeting of the Regulatory Council.

7. The quorum for any meeting of the Regulatory Council shall be nine members.

8. (1) The Additional Commissioner-General of Ayurveda (Technical) shall be the Secretary to the Regulatory Council and shall, subject to the general directions of the Regulatory Council, be responsible for the administration of the affairs of the Regulatory Council.

(2) The officers and employees of the Technical Division in the Department of Ayurveda shall, as it may consider necessary, assist the Regulatory Council in carrying out its functions under the Act.

9. Any person –

(a) if such person is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.20244A

(b) if such person is or becomes a member of Parliament or a Provincial Council or any Local Authority;

(c) if such person has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect the discharge by him of his functions as a member of the Regulatory Council;

(d) who holds ownership of an institution engaged in pharmaceutical industry;

(e) who has been engaged in any employment or consultancy service in an institution engaged in pharmaceuticals industry, other than a Government institution;

(f) if such person is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(g) if such person is an undischarged bankrupt; or

(h) if such person is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other country,

shall be disqualified from being appointed or continue to be a member of the Regulatory Council.

10. Every appointed member of the Regulatory Council shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a period of three years, and unless removed from office shall be eligible for re-appointment, for not more than one further term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

11. (1) Any appointed member of the Regulatory Council may at any time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister, and such resignation shall take effect from the date on which the resignation is accepted in writing by the Minister.

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned therefor, remove any appointed member from office. An appointed member who has been removed from office shall not be eligible for re-appointment as a member of the Regulatory Council or to serve the Regulatory Council in any other capacity.

(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death, resignation or removal of any appointed member, the Minister shall, subject to paragraph (b) of regulation 5, appoint another person to fill such vacancy and such person shall hold office for the un-expired period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(4) Where any appointed member of the Regulatory Council is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on account of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent from Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, the Minister shall, having regard to the provisions of regulation 5, appoint any other person to act in place of such member during his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Regulatory Council fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the Regulatory Council without obtaining prior excuse for such absence from the Chairperson such member shall be deemed to have vacated his office at the conclusion of the third meeting of such consecutive meetings and the Minister shall appoint another person to fill such vacancy in the manner provided by regulation 5.

12. (1) The Regulatory Council may subject to the provisions of the Act, make rules in respect of any matter relating to administration of the affairs of the Regulatory Council including, to-

(a) regulate its own procedure in regard to its meetings and transaction of business at such meetings;

(b) regulate the procedure relating to any matter referred to –

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

5A

(i) the Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine;

(ii) the Committee on Evaluation of Ayurveda Medicine Factories and Stores;

(iii) the Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets; and

(iv) the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants.

(2) Every rule made by the Regulatory Council shall be subject to the provisions of Subsections (2) and (3) of Section 49 of the Act.

13. The Powers and Functions of the Regulatory Council shall be –

(a) to issue registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits, as the case may be, relating to matters specified under section 77(1) of the Act for which a licence or a permit is required, including –:

(i) the cultivation of declared medicinal plants and manufacturing, preparation, purchase, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, transportation, supply and dispensing of any declared article, substance or drug;

(ii) the importation and exportation of any declared article, substance or drug;

(iii) the cultivation, storing, distribution, transportation of Cannabis and manufacturing, exportation, storing, distribution, transportation and sale of cannabis related declared article, substance or drug and Ayurveda products, of which the cultivation, importation, exportation, transportation, sale, storing and distribution has been restricted by any other Act or law;

(iv) the importation, exportation, storing or distribution, as the case may be, of any dangerous drug, including opium, extracted Paripaka spirit, or any poisons, minerals or animal materials of which the importation, exportation, sale, storing and distribution has been restricted by any other Act or law;

(v) the advertising in print or electronic media including social media of any Ayurveda product or any declared article, substance or drug which could be sold over the counter, for the purpose of promoting directly or indirectly such Ayurveda product, or such declared article, substance or drug.

(b) registration of-

(i) any Ayurveda product under the Act;(ii) any Ayurveda manufactory under the Act;(iii) an Ayurveda pharmacy under the Act;(iv) a distributor of any declared article, substance or drug under the Act; or(v) an Ayurveda drug store, under the Act,

for the purposes of Ayurveda medicine and surgery on recommendations of the Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine and the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants.

(c) the issuance of instructions, guidelines and rules on recommendations of the Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine to the effect that any declared article, substance or drug that may be obtained from the open market without medical recommendations is suitable for human consumption;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.20246A

(d) the issuance of instructions, guidelines and rules, on recommendations of the Technical Committee on

Ayurveda Medicine, for cultivation of declared medicinal plants and for the importation, exportation, storage, transportation, sale, distribution and dispensing of declared article, substance or drug and Ayurveda products used in Ayurveda medicine and surgery;

(e) the issuance of instructions, guidelines and rules, on recommendations of the Technical Committee on

Ayurveda Medicine, for cultivation of declared medicinal plants and for the importation, exportation, storage, transportation, sale, distribution and dispensing of declared article, substance or drug and Ayurveda products including opium, Cannabis, extracted Paripaka spirit, dangerous drugs, poisons, minerals and animal materials, used in Ayurveda medicine and surgery;

(f) to prepare, compile and publish standards relating to declared article, substance or drug;

(g) to make guidelines, rules and recommendations relating to registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits under this Code;

(h) to issue instructions to the Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine, the Committee on Evaluation of Ayurveda Manufactories and Stores, or the Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets relating to-

(i) the inspection of manufactories and stores; and

(ii) the testing of the quality and standards of declared articles, substances or drugs or Ayurveda products in the market to ensure the maintenance of quality and standards recommended by the Regulatory Council;

(i) to issue instructions to the Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine, the Committee on Evaluation of Ayurveda Manufactories and Stores, the Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets or the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants relating to-

(i) the inspection of cultivation fields and stores; and

(ii) the testing of the quality and standards of fields of declared medicinal plants, crops and the declared articles, substances or drugs or Ayurveda products made out of such crops, to ensure the maintenance of quality and standards recommended by the Regulatory Council;

(j) to temporarily suspend or cancel registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits in pursuance of any report of the the Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets;

(k) to assure public health in pursuance of recommendations made by the the Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets by taking measures to enquire into the safety operation, quality and stability necessary for human consumption of declared article, substance or drug available for sale in the open market and the advertisements made in relation to such declared article, substance or drug without obtaining prior written approval of the Regulatory Council;

(l) issue recommendations to the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister for releasing from Sri Lanka Customs the raw materials, packing materials and machinery required for local production of any declared article, substance or drug upon request made therefor by a manufactory registered under the Regulatory Council for the importation of same;

(m) to declare the local and overseas laboratories qualified for testing the standards, safety operations and quality of any declared article, substance or drug;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

7A

(n) to appoint any other committee or committees as required for effective achievement of the objectives of the Regulatory Council;

(o) to determine, with the concurrence of the Ministry of Finance the charges for services rendered by the

Regulatory Council;

(p) to obtain relevant information and data from the manufacturers, importers, exporters, wholesale dealers, retail pharmacists, prescribers, dispensers and any other person involved in the manufacture or sale of any Ayurveda product in Sri Lanka or any other country who may assist in the determination of the quality or price of a single Ayurveda product or a group of such products; (q) to recommend to the relevant manufactories the reduction or increase in prices or the maintenance of any existing price of any Ayurveda product or a group of such products in consultation with relevant authorities;

(r) to monitor the price fluctuations of any Ayurveda product, where necessary;

(s) to collect data on the use of any Ayurveda product or a group of such products in Sri Lanka;

(t) to recommend to the manufactories, the methods of determining the introductory price and maximum retail price of any Ayurveda product and price revisions of such product and, to provide advice to such manufactories on any other matter relating to pricing of such product;

(u) to take into consideration from time to time, any Ayurveda product which shall be subject to revision of prices;

(v) the inspection of any fields of declared medicinal plants cultivated under this Code;

(w) to make rules in respect of matters referred to in regulation 12; and

(x) generally, to do such other acts and things as authorized by the Act and by these regulations to facilitate the proper discharge of the functions of the Regulatory Council.

14. (1) The seal of the Regulatory Council –

(a) shall be determined by the Regulatory Council and may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the Regulatory Council;

(b) shall be in the custody of such person as the Regulatory Council may determine, from time to time; and (c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document except with the sanction of the Regulatory Council and in the presence of two members of the Regulatory Council who shall sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(2) The Regulatory Council shall maintain a register in respect of the instruments and documents to which the seal of the Regulatory Council is affixed.

(3) In issuing any registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits under these regulations, the Seal of the Regulatory Council, the Official stamp of the Chairman and the official stamp of the Secretary shall be affixed to such approval, permit, licence or certificate.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.20248A

15. Any Member, officer or employee of the Regulatory Council shall, before entering upon his duties, sign a declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in respect of all matters connected with the working of the Regulatory Council and shall by such declaration pledge himself not to disclose any matter which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his functions, except–

(a) when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b) in order to comply with any of the provisions of the Act or these regulations.

16. (1) The Financial Year of the Regulatory Council shall be the calendar year.

(2) The Regulatory Council shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other financial transactions of the Regulatory Council.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall apply to the audit of accounts of the Regulatory Council.

(4) All expenses incurred in the implementation of the duties and functions of the Regulatory Council shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

(5) All revenue collected by the Regulatory Council shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

(6) The Members of the Regulatory Council shall be paid remuneration in terms of the provisions of section 45 of the Act.

17. (1) There shall be appointed a Technical Committee on Ayurveda Medicine (hereinafter referred to as the “Technical Committee”) which shall be responsible in making recommendations to the Regulatory Council in respect of cultivation of declared medicinal plants, importation, exportation, storage, sale and distribution and dispensing of any declared article, substance or drug, as the case may be.

(2) The Technical Committee shall be comprised of-

(a) one ex-officio member who shall be the Additional Commissioner-General of Ayurveda (Technical); and (b) eight other members appointed by the Chairman of the Regulatory Council, from among the members appointed to the Regulatory Council under regulation 5 (b).

(3) The Additional Commissioner-General of Ayurveda (Technical) shall be the Chairman of the Technical Committee. The members of the Technical Committee shall select one member from among themselves as the Secretary of the Technical Committee.

(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Technical Committee shall be five members.

18. The Powers and Functions of the Technical Committee shall be –

(a) to make the public aware of the required standards of Ayurveda products;

(b) to evaluate the applications referred to it and make recommendations relating to the registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits under the Code;

(c) to make recommendation to the Regulatory Council on suspension or cancellation of such registration, approval or licences, certificates or permits;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

9A

(d) to obtain reports from relevant sectors relating to the standards and quality of declared article, substance or drug and Ayurveda products and issue recommendations; and

(e) to make recommendations in respect of any other matter referred to it by the Regulatory Council for the purposes of this Code.

19. (1) There shall be appointed an Committee on Evaluation of Ayurveda Manufactories and Stores (hereinafter referred to as the “Evaluation Committee) which shall be responsible in making recommendations to the Regulatory Council prior to registration or issuance of approvals, permits, licences or certificates in respect of manufactories of declared article, substance or drug or in respect of any imported or exported article, substance or drug which is declared under this Code, on any standards required to be complied with by such manufactory, importer or exporter of such Ayurveda article, substance or drug.

(2) The Evaluation Committee shall be comprised of-

(a) the Additional Commissioner-General Generalof Ayurveda (Technical) who shall be the ex-officio member who shall serve as the Chairman of the Evaluation Committee;

(b) six other members appointed by the Chairperson of the Regulatory Council on the recommendation of the Regulatory Council including three members selected from among the members appointed to the Regulatory Council under regulation 5 (b).

(3) The members of the Evaluation Committee shall select one member among themselves as the Secretary of the Evaluation Committee.

(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Evaluation Committee shall be four members.

20. The powers and functions of the Evaluation Committee shall be –

(a) to carry out site inspections of the manufactories, in relation to which references of application for registration or renewal have been made and to issue recommendations in respect thereof to the Regulatory Council;

(b) to carry out raids and sudden inspection of licenced manufactories as instructed by the Regulatory Council or the Technical Committee; and

(c) to report to the Regulatory Council of any misconduct of the Chief Medical Officer or any other staff member of a licenced manufactory, which has been noticed or detected during a site visit, raid or inspection.

21. (1) There shall be appointed a Committee on Investigation of Ayurveda Manufactories, Stores and Markets (hereinafter referred to as the “Investigation Committee”) which shall be comprised of-

(a) the Additional Commissioner-General of Ayurveda (Technical) who shall be the ex-officio member who shall serve as the Chairman of the Investigation Committee; and

(b) six other members appointed by the Regulatory Council on the recommendation of the Regulatory Council including four Ayurveda Practitioners nominated by the Commissioner-General.

(2) The Members of the Investigation Committee shall elect one member from among themselves as the Secretary of the Investigation Committee.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Investigation Committee shall be four members.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202410A

22. The powers and functions of the Investigation Committee shall be:-

(a) either on its own motion or on a complaint or request made to the Commissioner-General to carry out inspections, raids and investigations, prior to or after the registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits -

(i) for the cultivation of any declared medicinal plant; (ii) to manufactories, stores and pharmacies; (iii) for the distribution, transportation, exportation and importation of any declared article, substance or drug,

(b) for the testing of the quality of declared article, substance or drug in the market and make recommendations to the Regulatory Council accordingly.

23. (1) There shall be established a Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants (hereinafter referred to as the “Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee”) –

(a) to evaluate and recommend the project report with related to the cultivation and harvesting of Cannabis; and

(b) to coordinate with the Department of Ayurveda and the Regulatory Council concerning the matters pertaining to provision of security to and the evaluation of, projects related to Cannabis.

(2) The Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee shall be comprised of –

(a) the Commissioner-General who shall serve as the Chairman of the Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee; (b) a Senior Assistant Secretary nominated by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister;(c) the Commissioner-General of Excise appointed under section 7 of the Excise Ordinance (Chapter 52) or his nominee;(d) the Inspector-General of Police appointed under Article 41A of the Constitution or his nominee;(e) Director-General of the Board of Investment, appointed under section 6 of the Board of Investment

Law, No. 4 of 1978, or his nominee;(f) Additional Commissioner-General (Technical) of Ayurveda; and(g) three members of the Regulatory Council who shall be nominated by the Minister.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee shall be five members.

PART II

LICENCE TO MANUFACTORIES OF ANY DECLARED ARTICLE, SUBSTANCE or drug

24. (1) No person shall commence or continue with the operation of any manufactory to be engaged or engaged in manufacturing any declared article, substance or drug in Sri Lanka except under the authority of a valid licence issued name of a valid business registration by the Regulatory Council in the under these regulations.

(2) Where the name of a registered business includes the word ‘Ayurveda’, or ‘herbal’ such business is required to be registered with the Department of Ayurveda, prior to applying for a licence in respect of such registered business.

(3) Valid Environmental Protection Licence (EPL), Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) permit shall be required to be obtained from relevant authorities, where necessary, in respect of such manufactory prior to applying for a licence.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

11A

25. (1) On or after the appointed date, every application for registration of any manufactory of any declared article, substance or drug shall be made to the Regulatory Council in the Form A as specified in the Schedule II hereto.

(2) Every applicant-

(a) shall take all necessary precautions to ensure that his manufactory be -

(i) sufficiently spacious and ventilated;(ii) covered with a boundary wall for the safety of production process;(iii) completely prevented and protected from animals and birds being entering; (iv) not located in an area vulnerable to floods and other natural disasters;(v) not in the close proximity to open garbage dumping sites and public toilets;(vi) away from the factories, agro-chemical sales outlets, chemical mixing stations, funeral parlours and vehicle service stations, as determined by the Regulatory Council as unsuitable to be in the vicinity;

(b) shall possesses a business registration certificate issued by an authorized institution in his name;

(c) shall possesses an Agreement entered into between him and a registered Ayurveda Practitioner which is valid for not less than three years; and

(d) shall have obtained any other approval deemed necessary by the Regulatory Council in respect of the manufactory.

(3) Every applicant who has complied with sub-regulation (2) may apply for registration accompanied by required documents and information according to the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council from time to time, including the site plan, proposed building plan and details of declared article, substance or drug intended to be manufactured in the proposed manufacturing plant and a description of the sub-units in the proposed manufactory together with a processing fee determined by the Regulatory Council.

26. (1) Upon receipt of the application for approval of the proposed manufacturing plant, the Regulatory Council shall, at the next meeting of the Regulatory Council to be held after the receipt of such application, either-

(a) refer the application to the Technical Committee or to any other institution approved by the said Technical Committee, for recommendation; or

(b) reject the application assigning reasons therefor.

(2) The Regulatory Council may, upon receipt of recommendations of the Technical Committee and where it deems necessary, require the applicant to furnish further information relating to a matter or matters specified in the said recommendations.

(3) Upon the receipt of such recommendations and on considering such recommendations and information furnished by the applicant and, on being satisfied that the manufacture all guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practices recommended by the Regulatory Council have been complied with, the Regulatory Council shall -

(a) (i) issue the required licence to the applicant with a registration number on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto; or

(ii) for reasons to be recorded by the Regulatory Council, refuse to issue such licence;

(b) where a licence is issued to the applicant by the Regulatory Council under sub paragraph (i), of paragraph (a), the Regulatory Council may issue any letter or letters of recommendations to relevant

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202412A

authorities for the purpose of obtaining or importation of any machinery and raw material required for the manufacturing process involved in the manufacture of such declared article, substance or drug or any of them, as the case may be. 27. Any applicant, whose application has been rejected due to the non-fulfilment of the requirement may appeal to the Regulatory Council requesting for the issuance of a licence upon fulfilling the necessary requirements.

28. Every licence issued under regulation 26 shall be-

(a) substantially in the form specified in Schedule IV hereto;

(b) where the manufactured item is an Ayurveda drug, in addition to requirements specified under regulation 29, subject to such terms and conditions specified therein;

(c) valid only for the manufacture of the Ayurveda article, substance or drug in respect of which approval was sought; and

(d) valid only for the period specified therein.

29. Every manufactory issued with a licence to manufacture any declared article, substance or drug (hereinafter referred to as “a Licenced Manufactory”), shall -

(a) have its name board to be clearly and conspicuously displayed together with the registration number and contact details in identifiable letters and figures, at the entrance of the manufactory;

(b) exhibit the Licence and the valid Certificate of Registration issued by the Ayurveda Medical Council to the Ayurveda Medical Practitioner, with whom the Licenced Manufacturer has entered into an agreement, which shall be valid for the period of the licence;

(c) practice Good Manufacturing Practices recommended by the Regulatory Council in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council;

(d) provide and maintain such number of staff, premises, equipment and facilities as are considered to be necessary for the manufacture of any Ayurveda article, substance or drug undertaken to be manufactured by such Licenced Manufacturer and shall not carry out such manufacture except under the required medical supervision and at the premises specified in the licence ;

(e) maintain such staff, premises, equipment and facilities for the handling and storage of the raw materials and medicines as are considered necessary;

(f) not issue any production to the market except under the approval of the Chief Medical Officer of such manufactory;

(g) ensure that such declared article, substance or drug manufactured in such manufactory in commercial scale are in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.

(h) provide such information as may be required by the Regulatory Council in respect of any declared article, substance or drug manufactured at such manufactory and of the operations carried out in relation to such manufacture;

(i) establish a product related complaint handling system inclusive of recording, analysing and taking corrective measures;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

13A

(j) inform the Regulatory Council before making any material alterations in the premises, plant or machinery used under the licence, or in the operations of which they are used and any changes in any key personnel responsible for:-

(i) the production operations; or

(ii) the quality control and quality assurance of products manufactured;

(k) preserve all records including batch manufacturing records and distribution records for a period of five years from the date of expiry of the relevant batch of any declared article, substance or drug prepared at the manufactory;

(l) keep readily available for inspection by the Regulatory Council or Evaluation Committee or by any other person nominated by the Regulatory Council, all records including the details of manufacture of each batch of every declared article, substance or drug that is manufactured at the manufactory, and the tests carried out in respect thereof;

(m) maintain the records in such manner which would enable the records to be easily identifiable from the batch number of medicine as shown on each container in which the medicine is sold, distributed or exported;

(n) keep all records in a manner which would facilitate the withdrawal or recall from sale, supply or exportation of any declared article, substance or drug.

30. (1) The Regulatory Council shall maintain an updated register of every Licenced Manufacturer which shall contain such particulars pertaining to the Licenced Manufacturers as may be determined by the Regulatory Council.

(2) Every Licenced Manufactory shall furnish to the Regulatory Council such particulars required by the Regulatory Council from time to time and where there is any change in the particulars, inform such particulars forthwith to the Regulatory Council. (3) Upon the receipt of any particulars furnished by a Licenced Manufactory under sub-regulation (2), the Regulatory Council shall make or cause to be made such appropriate alterations as may be necessary in the relevant register.

31. (1) A licence issued under regulation 26 shall be renewable on an application made in that behalf to the Regulatory Council in the Form A as specified in Schedule II hereto within a period of ninety days prior to the expiry of such licence.

(2) A licence shall be renewed by the Regulatory Council, only if it is satisfied that the Licenced Manufactory has adhered to the standards in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council and, where the manufactured item is a declared drug, in addition to the requirements specified under regulation 29 the Regulatory Council shall satisfy that the provisions of the Act and any other written law and such terms and conditions specified in the licence have been complied with.

32. (1) Upon the receipt of an application for renewal of a licence under regulation 31 the Regulatory Council shall, within thirty days of the receipt of such application, either-

(a) refer the application to the Evaluation Committee or to any other institution approved by the said Technical Committee, for recommendation; or

(b) reject the application assigning reasons therefor.

(2) The Regulatory Council shall, where it deems necessary may require the applicant to furnish further information relating to a matter or matters specified in the recommendations within a specified time.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202414A

(3) Upon the receipt of such recommendation and on considering such recommendations, and information furnished by the applicant and, on being satisfied that all guidelines of the Regulatory Council for Good Manufacturing Practices recommended by the Regulatory Council have been complied with, the Regulatory Council shall -

(a) renew such licence for a period of one year on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule

III hereto; or(b) for reasons to be recorded by the Regulatory Council, refuse to renew the licence- 33. Where the Regulatory Council has refused to renew the licence issued to a Licenced Manufactory, the Regulatory Council shall-

(a) strike off the name of such Manufactory from the register of manufactories;

(b) take such measures as the Regulatory Council deems appropriate, in respect of the items that have been already manufactured but not issued to the market and the items that are still in the process of being manufactured.

34. (1) The Regulatory Council may suspend or cancel the licence issued under regulation 26, if the Regulatory Council is satisfied that the Licenced Manufacturer has violated the provisions of the Act or, regulations or rules made thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of such licence.

(2) Where a licence has been suspended, the Regulatory Council shall, within fourteen days of such suspension refer the matter to the Investigation Committee for investigation and recommendation.

(3) Upon the receipt of recommendations by the Investigation Committee, the Regulatory Council may revoke the approval, permission, licence or certificate remove the suspension and permit to resume work of the manufactory.

PART III

REGISTRATION OF AYURVEDA PRODUCTS

35. (1) Every Ayurveda product prior to being issued to the market as an item ready for human consumption, shall be registered with the Regulatory Council under the provisions of this Part.

(2) Every applicant who intends to register an Ayurveda product with the Regulatory Council shall-

(a) have a Licenced Manufactory registered for the purpose;

(b) make an application to the Regulatory Council in the Form B specified in Schedule II hereto;

(c) submit all such information, as may be determined by the Regulatory Council time to time.

(d) provide samples of the Ayurveda product as may be required by the Regulatory Council; and

(e) pay a processing fee as may be determined by the Regulatory Council.

(3) Registration procedure for an imported Ayurveda product shall be as specified in Part IV hereto.

(4) A separate application shall be made in respect of each Ayurveda product intended to be registered.

36. An Ayurveda product applied for registration shall be-

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

15A

(a) made by the use of one or more ingredients or medicinal items contained in-

(i) the Ayurveda Pharmacopoeia published from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, Sri Lanka;

(ii) Siddha Pharmacopoeia published from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, Sri

Lanka;

(iii) Unani Pharmacopoeia published from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, Sri

Lanka;

(iv) Pharmacopoeia of Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani approved by the Government of India; or

(v) Traditional Medicinal Systems of medicine contained in the Pharmacopeias in other Countries as approved by the respective governments;

(b) made by the use of one or more of the pharmaceuticals considered as a botanical, mineral or zoological, which are traditionally used in the Deshiya Chikitsa systems of medicine and surgery of Sri Lanka;

(c) referred to in the authentic or classical books accepted in the systems of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, and Deshiya Chikitsa systems of medicine and surgery;

37. On receipt of an application for the registration of an Ayurveda product, the Regulatory Council shall, within a period of thirty days of such receipt, refer the matter to the Technical Committee for recommendation and report.

38. The Technical Committee on consideration of information furnished in such application, shall inform the Regulatory Council of its recommendation within a period of thirty days of receipt of such application.

39. Upon the receipt of such recommendation, the Regulatory Council may, either issue a Certificate of Registration in the form as specified in Schedule IV hereto, on payment of a relevant fee as specified in Schedule III hereto or for reasons to be recorded by the Regulatory Council refuse to issue a Certificate of Registration to the applicant.

40. Every Certificate of Registration, unless it is suspended or cancelled earlier, shall be valid for a period of three years, in respect of a local product and for a period of one year in respect of an imported product and shall be subject to such terms and conditions specified therein. 41. The Regulatory Council may suspend or cancel a Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 39, if the Regulatory Council is satisfied that the holder has violated the provisions of the Act or, regulations or rules made thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of such Certificate of Registration.

42. (1) A Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 39 shall be renewable on an application in Form B as specified in Schedule II hereto being made in that behalf to the Regulatory Council not later than ninety days before the expiry of the validity period of such Certificate and on payment of the relevant renewal fee as specified in Schedule III hereto.

(2) A Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 39 shall be renewed by the Regulatory Council, if the Regulatory Council is satisfied that the holder of such Certificate of Registration has complied with the provisions of the Act, regulations and rules made thereunder and the terms and conditions specified in the Certificate of Registration.

43. Packing, labelling and the contents of the brochure to be provided with an Ayurveda product shall be as specified in the Schedule V hereto.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202416A

PART IV

Registration of an improted Ayurveda product

44. Every imported Ayurveda product shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of this Part.

45. (1) Every Ayurveda product imported to the country shall be manufactured in a licenced manufactory of the respective country and shall have been approved for the respective period of validity by the relevant authority of such country which has the power to determine the quality of the product.

(2) The manufacturer of the Manufactory referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall appoint a Sri Lanka business entity registered with the Department of Ayurveda as its local authorized agent.

(3) Where any authorized agent intends to import an Ayurveda product to Sri Lanka, he shall, through a registered Ayurveda practitioner apply to the Regulatory Council in the Form C specified in the Schedule II hereto together with –

(a) the documents and information specified in the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council;

(b) the samples of the Ayurveda product obtained in terms of regulation 53 and the dossier, if applicable; and

(c) the applicable fee as specified in Schedule III hereto,

for a licence for such importation.

(4) Separate applications shall be made in respect of each Ayurveda product intends to be imported.

46. The Regulatory Council shall maintain a register in which every application received for the registration of an Ayurveda product intends to be imported, shall be recorded. The particulars to be entered in such register shall be determined by the Regulatory Council.

47. (1) Every application submitted to import an Ayurveda product shall be accompanied with following documents: -

(i) a Free Sale Certificate issued by the relevant authority of the respective country; (ii) Performa Invoice; (iii) Fund Transfer document; (iv) Commercial Invoice; (v) Packing List; (vi) Copy of Bill of Lading or the Airway Bill; (vii) A document to prove the country of origin; (viii) Material Safety data Sheet; (ix) Relevant analytical and safety reports; (x) any other document as are required to import the Ayurveda product or as may be determined by the Regulatory Council;

(2) Documentary evidence to show that the relevant product contains the following accepted percentages of constituents: -

(a) (i) where the product is a food item and not a formula in any Code of medicine or a recognized original edition, has herbal extracts, minerals or animal material as active component in percentage as may be determined by the Regulatory Council from time to time;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

17A

(ii) where the product is a cosmetic compound and not a formula in any Code of medicine or a recognized original edition, contains herbal extracts, minerals or animal material as active components in percentage as may be determined by the Regulatory Council from time to time;

(b) has a coating produced using chemicals and whether such chemical for coating had been extracted naturally;

(c) where it contains one or more chemicals has been confirmed to be of good quality, performance and soundness for human consumption with medical reports or two recognized research articles relating to researches conducted in terms of methodology recognized by a recognized government institute or university and published in peer reviewed journal in the country of production; and

(d) has been proved as suitable for human consumption upon testing for toxicity.

48. (1) The Regulatory Council shall within thirty days of the receipt of such application to import an Ayurveda product, refer such application to the Technical Committee for recommendation.

(2) The Technical Committee shall within a period of sixty days of such reference submit its recommendations to the Regulatory Council, in writing.

(3) The Regulatory Council, upon the receipt of such recommendation shall either-

(a) approve the importation of a sample of the relevant product subject to provisions of any applicable written law; or

(b) reject such application assigning reasons therefor.

(4) The Regulatory Council may, prior to the issuance of licence and where it deems necessary, call for further information, in addition to those submitted together with the application.

(5) Prior to the issuance of licence, the Regulatory Council shall consider whether the Ayurveda product intended to be imported may cause an adverse impact on the local manufacturer and whether they are in accordance with the relevant standards specified in the guidelines of the Regulatory Council.

(6) The Regulatory Council shall, on being satisfied that all the requirements for the importation of the Ayurveda product referred to in the application has been fulfilled, issue a licence to the applicant to import the Ayurveda product in the form as specified in the Schedule IV hereto, on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto or for reasons to be recorded by the Regulatory Council, refuse to issue a licence.

49. Every licence to import an Ayurveda product shall unless it is suspended or cancelled earlier, be valid for a period of one year and shall be subject to such terms and conditions specified therein. 50. (1) Where the holder of a licence to import any Ayurveda product has violated the provisions of the Act or, regulations or rules made thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of such licence, the Regulatory Council shall suspend or cancel the licence issued under regulation 48 and require the holder to withdraw the Ayurveda product imported under such licence from the market at his own expense and in accordance with the procedure as determined by the Regulatory Council.

(2) Where any Ayurveda product registered to be imported under these regulations has not been imported in to Sri Lanka within one year from the date of registration for such importation, the Regulatory Council may suspend or cancel the licence issued in respect of such product.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202418A

51. A licence issued under regulation 48 shall be renewable on an application being made in that behalf to the Regulatory Council not later than ninety days prior to the expiry of such licence and on payment of the relevant renewal fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto.

52. (1) An application to import a sample of an Ayurveda product shall be made in Form D of Schedule II hereto, together with such other particulars as may be determined by the Regulatory Council.

(2) The Regulatory Council shall, upon and within thirty days from the receipt of such application to import a sample of an Ayurveda product, refer such application to the Technical Committee for its recommendation.

(3) The Technical Committee shall within a period of sixty days of such reference submit its recommendations to the Regulatory Council, in writing.

(4) The Regulatory Council shall, upon the receipt of such recommendation, either-

(a) approve importation of such sample subject to provisions of any applicable written law; or

(b) reject such application assigning reasons therefor.

(5) The Regulatory Council shall issue to the applicant a letter of authority for the importation of such sample which shall include –

(a) the name and description of the product; and

(b) the period of validity of such authorization.

53. (1) A sample of Ayurveda product imported for the purpose of submitting for registration shall not be sold in any manner whatsoever and shall only be used for the purpose of registration of such Ayurveda product with the Regulatory Council.

(2) Every imported sample of the Ayurveda product specified above, shall be in accordance with standards as specified in the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council.

(3) Any such sample imported without obtaining prior approval of the Regulatory Council shall be destroyed or caused to be destroyed by such Council. Any person who imports such samples without a valid licence shall be dealt with in terms of the provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).

(4) Where it is found that such sample or a full consignment of such Ayurveda product is not suitable for human consumption, the Regulatory Council shall have power to order the destruction of such sample or the full consignment as the case may be, in accordance with the applicable law and expenses incurred in the destruction of such sample or such full consignment shall be borne by the importer.

54. The Regulatory Council shall maintain a register of letters of authority issued in respect of samples referred to in regulation 53, in which particulars of such samples intended to be imported shall be recorded. The particulars to be entered in such register shall be determined by the Regulatory Council.

55. Packing and labelling of and the contents of the brochure to be provided with an imported Ayurveda product, shall be as specified in Schedule V hereto.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

19A

PART V

Exportation of Ayurveda products

56. Every Ayurveda product prior to exportation shall be registered with the Regulatory Council, in terms of the provisions of Part III of this Code.

57. A separate application shall be made to the Regulatory Council, in respect of every Ayurveda product intended to be exported, along with such required documents as may be determined by the Regulatory Council for the purposes of desk review and making its recommendation to relevant authorities.

58. Upon the receipt of approval from the Regulatory Council the person who intends to export an Ayurveda product shall apply for same to the Export Development Board established under section 3 of the Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No.40 of 1979.

PART VI

STANDARDS FOR AYURVEDA PHARMACIES

59. No pharmacy shall sell any Ayurveda drug or any other Ayurveda product if such pharmacy has not been registered under these regulations for the purpose.

60. (1) Every application for the registration of an Ayurveda Pharmacy shall be made by a person who has a valid business registration with the relevant authority and who has entered into a valid agreement for at least one year, with an Ayurveda pharmacist who has registered with the Ayurveda Medical Council for the purpose of carrying on an Ayurveda Pharmacy.

(2) A registered Ayurveda Practitioner shall be entitled to apply for the registration of an Ayurveda pharmacy.

(3) Every application made for the registration of an Ayurveda pharmacy shall be made to the Commissioner-General in Form E as specified in the Schedule II hereto together with the other required documents as specified by the Regulatory Council.

(4) Upon the receipt of documents for registration, the Commissioner-General shall inspect or cause to be inspected the site intended for the setting up of the pharmacy prior to registration.

(5) The Commissioner-General, on being satisfied with the relevant documents submitted and the outcome of the site inspection, shall register such pharmacy for a period of one year upon the payment of a fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto and issue him a registration number.

(6) Every registration of a pharmacy shall be subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Regulatory Council and is renewable upon application made therefor three months prior to the expiry of such registration. In the event of a renewal of its registration, the registration of the business shall be in the name of the applicant and a valid agreement between the applicant and any Ayurveda Pharmacists registered with the Ayurveda Medical Council shall be in existence for the period for which renewal is sought.

(7) The Commissioner-General shall maintain a register of all registered pharmacies containing information including the names of the proprietor, address of the Business Registration and address of the location of the pharmacy and the contact details of such pharmacy, and particulars of the registered pharmacist as required by the Regulatory Council.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202420A

61. Every Registered Ayurveda pharmacy shall,

(a) display a name board indicating the words “Ayurveda Pharmacy” in all three languages, the registration number of such pharmacy, and the qualification of the registered pharmacist for selling Ayurveda products, declared articles, substances or drugs either retail, wholesale or both;

(b) where in any such pharmacy Ayurveda products, declared articles, substances or drugs are sold wholesale, also have to be registered as an Ayurveda drug store;

(c) ensure that-

(i) the Ayurveda products which are sold in such pharmacy are duly registered with the Regulatory Council;

(ii) each category of Ayurveda products, articles, substances or drugs are separately stored to prevent mixing up;

(d) its Certificate of Registration as an Ayurveda pharmacy which shall contain the photograph of the Ayurveda Pharmacist and the relevant certificate of business registration be displayed clearly in the premises;

(e) ensure that the pharmacist shall not engage in any promotional activity or propaganda which is likely to motivate the consumers for the use of any particular drug or product sold therein;

(f) ensure the advertisements, posters and papers are displayed only within the premises and the pharmacist does not engage in promotional or advertising activity of any form therein;

(g) ensure that where any supermarket intends to sell Ayurveda products in its business premises such supermarket, adheres to the standards and regulations in force in respect of Ayurveda pharmacies.

62. The premises of any Registered Ayurveda pharmacy shall, -

(a) have considerable space and shall be fit for systematic and methodical continuance of activities of such Ayurveda Pharmacy;

(b) where drugs are required to be mixed, possess sufficient space dedicated for that purpose;

(c) be compartmentalized into two separate divisions for end products and dry medicines;

(d) be facilitated to store cosmetics and other non-medicinal materials separately, if any;

(e) where materials and equipment required for demonology are sold, be facilitated to allocate a separate space for the purpose; (f) have buildings designated in such a way so as not to expose medicinal materials to dust, smoke, sharp sun rays and unclean air;

(g) take steps to keep light, ventilation, temperature and humidity in conditions appropriate for pharmacies: air condition facilities must be provided to areas requiring such facilities;

(h) possess a minimum space of not less than 25 square feet, to be kept available as a waiting space for consumers;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

21A

(i) have a building structure planned in such a way so as to avoid or minimize the risk of drugs being mixed with unnecessary substances;

(j) have separate facilities to store expired or damaged articles, substances or drugs;

(k) provide physical facilities to enable cleaning in accordance with the cleaning methodologies employed by pharmacies;

(l) be planned with maximum provisions to prevent entrance of termites, insects, birds, rats and pet animals by following suitable precautionary measures and standard sanitation systems shall be used for the purpose comprised with washing and sanitary facilities established in the pharmacy and the storing premises in a manner easy to reach;

(m) be in a building over 10 feet in height-

(i) with walls and the ceiling painted with a paint containing no heavy metal and peeling proof;

(ii) with the floor properly finished without defects by applying materials easy to clean, non-reactive to medicines and non-slippery;

(iii) with a roof permanently fixed using long-lasting material suitable for a pharmacy;

(iv) without crevices between roof cover and walls;

(v) with a heat resistant fixed to the roof to control the inside temperature;

(vi) with a ceiling easy to clean and having no adverse impact on the Ayurveda products sold; and

(n) be equipped with fire extinguishers;

63. Every registered Ayurveda pharmacy shall be adequately staffed with Ayurveda pharmacists who work on fulltime basis and supporting staff working under supervision of such pharmacists.

64. (1) Every member of the staff having responsibility in the issuance of drugs on a prescription in a Registered Ayurveda Pharmacy shall-

(a) be of sound physical health;

(b) be dedicated to provide an agreeable, flexible and friendly service;

(c) wear a suitable uniform and a card for identification; and

(d) not consume liquor, cigarettes, chews of betel or narcotics during working hours.

(2) It shall be the duty of every member referred to in sub-regulation (1) to check the prescription prior to the issuance of Ayurveda drugs to a patient;

65. (1) Utmost care shall be taken in preventing growth of microbes in Ayurveda drugs which can cause adverse effects on such drugs.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202422A

(2) Ayurveda drugs for internal medication and external medication shall be clearly separated from each other and “Ayurveda drugs for external medication only” shall be written in a clearly visible manner in red colour in the area where Ayurveda drugs for external medication are exhibited for sale.

(3) Ayurveda drugs shall be arranged neatly in the display racks according to their usage and the same Ayurveda drug which is available in packings of different sizes, shall be placed in the same area and shall be clearly separated from each other according to the sizes of the packing.

(4) The price marked on the packing or label of the end product of the Ayurveda drug shall not be disfigured or changed and Ayurveda drugs of which the labels are unidentifiably disfigured or torn or the packing has been damaged or date of expiring has passed shall not be placed for sale.

(5) A retail price index shall be exhibited for all dry, raw or crude Ayurveda drugs kept for sale in a sales center.

(6) Only the end products of Ayurveda drugs registered with the Regulatory Council shall be stored or sold.

(7) Ayurveda drugs shall be taken for sale only from suppliers registered with the Regulatory Council.

(8) A register containing information of cultivators or collectors of raw materials, including the small scale or home garden cultivators shall be maintained and updated.

(9) Only natural, clean and sanitary dry, raw or crude materials shall be sold.

(10) In compounding medicine, a sanitary and clean process shall be followed.

(11) Ayurveda declared articles including equipment shall be obtained for sale only from manufacturers registered with the Regulatory Council.

66. Ayurveda declared articles, substances or drugs shall-

(a) be issued only upon medical recommendations and shall be issued only against a prescription bearing the stamp (with registration No. of the medical Regulatory Council) of an Ayurveda practitioner registered with the Ayurveda Medical Council;

(b) where it has been prescribed by a specially qualified Ayurveda practitioner, it shall only be issued with a prescription of such a practitioner: A separate register shall be maintained to keep record of the issuance of such drugs;

(c) be issued with only the ingredients referred to in the prescription and in the manner prescribed therein;

(d) be handled following approved sanitation methods;

(e) not be issued in breach of the recommendations given in a prescription issued by the practitioner;

(f) be packed in packings approved for the package of food and medicines and a packing shall not be re-used;

(g) not be issued where there is a difficulty in reading the medical prescription or when the prescription is unintelligible or where there is a doubt about the drugs prescribed;

(h) not be substituted if the stocks are available or if the Ayurveda practitioner had underlined the drug in his prescription;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

23A

(i) be issued with necessary instructions written on the cover in which the drugs are contained indicating the dosage and the manner of use in terms of the relevant medical prescription;

(j) where the practitioner has not given special instructions to follow in using a relevant drug, be issued with standard instructions in terms of the Code of Medicine;

(k) where issuance of the drug is limited by law, not be issued on a prescription and each time of issue shall be recorded in a register giving the details of the amount issued, name of the practitioner, registration No. and name and age of the patient; and

(l) be issued with a detailed bill on the medicines issued.

67. Every pharmacy which intends to sell, collect or store materials restricted by any other law shall obtain registration, approval or licences, certificates or permits required to carry on such activity or activities.

68. Every registered Ayurveda pharmacy shall maintain a separate register to keep records relating to –

(a) staff management;

(b) medical prescriptions;

(c) bills received on purchasing stocks of medicine;

(d) Rasa drugs;

(e) the sale of drugs, Ayurveda products other than rasa drugs;

(f) sale of visha and upavisha;

(g) drug bulk purchase bills;

(h) sale of imported medicine; and

(i) any other relevant document.

69. (1) Every Ayurveda pharmacist employed in a registered Ayurveda pharmacy shall, prior to issuance of any Ayurveda product, take appropriate measures to ensure that any requested Ayurveda product is or is not a material restricted by-

(a) the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218);(b) the Explosives Ordinance (Chapter 183);(c) the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235); (d) Excise Ordinance (Chapter 52); (e) the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance (Chapter 469); and (f) the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

(2) Every Ayurveda pharmacist shall take every precautionary measures in respect of the issuance of any such restricted material as required by the provisions of the respective laws specified under sub regulation (1).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202424A

Part VII

AYURVEDA DRUG STORES

70. (1) Every Ayurveda drug store shall be operated under the authority of a licence issued by the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda.

(2) The following institutions or persons, namely-

(a) a manufactory of medicine;(b) a hospital registered under the Department of Ayurveda; (c) a sales outlet of medicine; (d) suppliers of end products or dry products of declared articles, substance or drugs, Ayurveda products, as the case may be; (e) an importer or exporter or a distributor of medicines registered with the Department of Ayurveda;(f) a registered Ayurveda practitioner; or(g) a company registered under the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 or any other relevant authority to carry on a business of a drug store,

shall be eligible to obtain a licence to operate an Ayurveda drug store.

71. (1) Every applicant who intends to apply to obtain a licence to operate an Ayurveda drug store shall-

(a) possess a business registration made with regard to same, in the name of the applicant; and

(b) an agreement for a duration of not less than one year signed between the applicant and an Ayurveda

Pharmacist registered with the Ayurveda Medical Council.

(2) Activities of an Ayurveda drug store shall be carried out under the supervision of an Ayurveda Pharmacist registered with the Ayurveda Medical Council. An Ayurveda Pharmacist shall sign an agreement only in respect of one Ayurveda drug store.

72.(1) Every application to register an Ayurveda drug store shall be made to the Regulatory Council in Form E as specified in the Schedule II hereto along with the required particulars.

(2) Upon the receipt of an application for registration, the Commissioner-General shall inspect or cause to inspect the site of the drug store prior to issue registration.

(3) The Commissioner-General, being satisfied with the documents submitted and the outcome of the site inspection, shall register such Ayurveda drug store for a period of one year upon the payment of a fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto and issue him a registration number.

(4) Every registration shall be subject to such terms and conditions and may be renewable upon application made therefor three months prior to the expiry of registration.

(5) The Commissioner-General shall maintain a register of all registered Ayurveda drug stores which shall contain information including the name of the proprietor, address and the contact details of such Ayurveda drug store. 73. Every Ayurveda drug store shall-

(a) clearly display a name board conspicuously indicating the name of the store and the registration number, in all three languages;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

25A

(b) store only the items purchased or obtained from manufactories and importers registered with the

Regulatory Council;

(c) issue items only on internal written directives of the institution which purchases or obtains same, of which records shall be kept in registers maintained for such purpose by the store;

(d) take precautionary measures to prevent unauthorized persons entering the store premises;

(e) in the absence of instructions relating to storing, follow relevant standards prescribed by the Ayurveda Code or consult the Regulatory Council.

74. (1) An Ayurveda drug store shall not be located in the close proximity of-

(a) yards of garbage disposal;(b) public toilets;(c) agrochemical sales outlets;(d) institutions mixing chemicals; (e) funeral parlors and morgues;(f) vehicle service stations; (g) factories (such as tile, plastic, fuel refineries etc.) that immethodically or carelessly emit smoke, dust, carbon and heat unless it is covered or properly sealed; and (h) animal farms, and any other place in the vicinity of which the Regulatory Council determines as unsuitable to carry on a medicinal store.

(2) Where any place referred to in sub-regulation (1) is subsequently established near an Ayurveda store, such store shall take all precautionary measures to minimize impact caused by such place to the items stored in such store.

(3) Where the premises of an Ayurveda store is located in an area identified as vulnerable to floods and other natural disasters, precautionary and preventive measures shall be adopted by such store for the safety of items stored in such store.

75. Every premises used as an Ayurveda drug store shall-

(a) be sufficiently spacious;

(b) have separate entrances for input and output of materials as recommended by the Regulatory Council based on the capacity and facilities for loading and unloading at such entrances;

(c) have quarantine units set up outside the store premises;

(d) keep samples of primary materials in another site under appropriate conditions or separately in the premises itself;

(e) have two areas allocated separately to store end-products of medicine and dry medicines: In the event where raw medicines are to be stored, a separate area shall be used for the purpose under appropriate environmental conditions. All these areas shall have separate entrances and shall not be connected to each other internally;

(f) be housed in a building –

(i) with walls and the ceiling painted with a paint containing no heavy metal and peeling proof;(ii) with the floor properly finished without defects by applying materials easy to clean, non-reactive to medicines and non-slippery;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202426A

(iii) without crevices between roof cover and walls;

(g) designated in a manner so as not to expose medicinal materials to dust, smoke, sharp sun rays and unclean air;

(h) take steps to keep light, ventilation, temperature and humidity in conditions appropriate for places storing drugs and air condition facilities must be provided to areas requiring such facilities;

(i) which has a building structure planned in a manner so as to avoid or minimize the risk of drugs being mixed with unnecessary substances;

(j) which possesses separate facilities to store expired or damaged drugs;

(k) having maximum provisions to prevent entrance of termites, insects, birds, rats and pet animals by following suitable precautionary measures and standard sanitation systems for the purpose comprised with washing and sanitary facilities established in the store and the storing premises in a manner easy to reach;

(l) with facilities to store-over active materials, radioactive materials, dangerous drugs, hazardous materials, sensitive objects, substances that may be misused and inflammable and explosive materials separate from each other.

76. In the storage of drugs, a quarantine unit shall be located for the purpose of to quarantining all Ayurveda drugs (raw materials, packing materials) prior to they being transferred to the store.

77. (1) The quarantine unit shall follow standard quarantine procedure under the supervision of a registered pharmacist.

(2) Medicines shall be stored by using packing meant for food and medicinal items only. Medicine shall be supplied only by using the standard food or medicine transportation methodologies specified in the guidelines prepared by the Regulatory Council.

(3) A standard, certified collection of samples applicable for identification of materials shall be maintained in every store.

(4) Where further testing is required for proper identification of medicines at a situation of uncertainty, recommendations shall be sought by reference of such samples to a laboratory approved by the Regulatory Council.

(5) A separate store shall be available for the temporary storage of Ayurveda drugs until they are quarantined.

(6) Quarantined medicines shall be sent to the store, only after being properly labelled and certified.

(7) Quarantine registers containing particular of the medicines quarantined shall be maintained properly at the stores.

78. (1) Every Ayurveda article, substance or drug used for the production process, intermediate products and as packing materials of drugs, as determined by the Regulatory Council from time to time, shall be stored separately in terms of the Model Standards for Ayurveda drug stores as specified in the guidelines prepared by the Regulatory Council.

(2) Only the raw materials received from registered suppliers or end products of Ayurveda drugs and articles of licenced manufactories shall be stored in any Ayurveda drug store.

(3) Environmental conditions conducive for storing shall be maintained. Air conditioning and refrigeration

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

27A

facilities shall be made available to store drugs which required to be stored under air-conditioning or refrigeration.

(4) The materials stored shall be stacked in racks with shelves or stages so as not to contact with the floor.

(5) The store premises must be clean and be devoid of waste and pests. Cleaning and observation spaces shall be made available in storing and a standard sanitation process shall be available with clear instructions on cleaning methodologies.

(6) Raw materials shall be stored only in their natural clean state and different types of medicinal raw materials shall be labelled and stored separately

(7) All end products of Ayurveda drugs shall be categorized as botanical, mineral or zoological or the like and shall be stored separately.

(8) Hyperactive materials, radioactive materials, drugs specified in Part IX of these regulations, hazardous materials, sensitive objects, substances that may be misused and inflammable and explosive materials shall be stored in areas allocated to such materials and shall be maintained with caution and subject to hazardous preventive methodologies in terms of relevant local or international rules and regulations.

(9) Storing shall be done in a manner so as to prevent mixing of raw materials, inter contact and internal spoiling.

(10) When the same medicine is separated according to its quantity, it shall be packed in the same area marking due separations in respect thereof.

(11) In a store, regular stock-taking shall be carried out.

(12) (a) Where a label of an Ayurveda drug contains information different from the actual information that can be related to the drug, measures shall be taken to examine whether a mixing or an incorrect issuance had taken place.

(b) An Ayurveda drug which is different from the information contained in the label shall be identified by adopting the guidelines prepared by the Regulatory Council. (13) After an issuance of a medicine making a portion of such medicine to remain, the remaining portion of the medicine shall be stored in such a way so as not to be spoiled and decomposed, and shall be safely packed and labelled. The raw material of which a portion remains shall be first issued at the next issuance.

(14) Under any circumstance, any material with a damaged-packing shall not be issued. Where required, such material shall be referred to Quality Control Unit for necessary testing of its condition. All actions taken in that respect shall be recorded and registered.

(15) Proper precautionary measures shall be taken to prevent issuance of outdated materials. Expired, damaged, rejected or re-called medicines shall not be kept in the store. Such materials shall be stored in a separate place till they are disposed of and a separate register shall be maintained to keep records of such items and monthly reports shall be sent to the Regulatory Council in that regard. Expired or damaged medicines shall be disposed of methodically under approval of the Regulatory Council.

(16) A systematic methodology shall have to be developed to issue Ayurveda drugs on ‘First in First out (FIFO)’ basis without surpassing standards to be maintained relating to such drugs.

79. (1) Every Ayurveda store shall –

(a) keep records in order to enable the re-testing of the existing temperature and humidity;(b) check all pertinent equipment at proper intervals and keep records thereof;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202428A

(c) record in graphs the fluctuations of store temperature, to enable proper observation; and(d) calibrate measuring equipment at regular intervals.

(2) All records referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be kept safe for a period of one year from the date of expiry of that medicine or any other period provided by the existing rules and regulations.

80. (1) Every Ayurveda Store, in addition to the records referred to in regulation 79 shall-

(a) keep written records on activities performed in the premises;

(b) keep records in both written and electronic form of all items stored including instructions relating to recommended conditions of storing, precautionary measures, observations and the dates to re-check; and

(c) keep records of every issuance including the particulars of the item, its quality, amount, supplier, batch number of the supplier, date received, and date of expiry.

(2) The records referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be kept in a specific system of identification either based on batch numbering or a similar system.

81. (1) Raw materials and Ayurveda drugs shall be stored in packings in a manner that would prevent reacting with each other and being protected from external risks.

(2) Every packing referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall have labels clearly indicating the name of the item, batch number, date of expiry and the date for re-checking, condition for special packing in terms of the Registration Number of the Medicine. The abbreviations, names or codes that have not been approved by the Regulatory Council shall not be used in the labels.

(3) Receipt orders received pertaining to raw materials and medicines, shall be tested and confirmed at every order.

(4) Packing shall be physically tested and confirmed with respect to every order of raw materials and products.

(5) Uniformity of any stock shall be tested and confirmed. In case a stock consists of products belonging to several batch numbers, they shall be duly separated.

(6) All containers shall be well examined for cleanliness and where a broken or damaged container or a container which is below the required standards is found in a stock, the entire stock shall be kept in the quarantine premises for further investigations.

(7) (a) Qualified and trained staff shall take samples of the stocks when necessary. (b) Samples must be taken in terms of the written instructions provided by the Regulatory Council and the containers into which samples are taken shall be properly labelled.

(c) The samples so taken shall be quarantined. Batch separation process shall continue even in the process of storing.

(8) Raw materials or Ayurveda drugs shall be kept in a quarantine store until they are approved or rejected by an authorized officer.

82. (1) The store premises shall be cleaned in terms of standard sanitation procedures in order to prevent damages likely to be caused by animals including termites, insects, birds and rats and written records shall be kept of the procedures and methods used for sanitation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

29A

(2) Every packing container shall be cleaned before and after every use in terms of the standard methodologies applicable in respect thereof.

(3) Every precautionary measure shall be taken to prevent growth of microbes, in order to minimize its impact on medicines.

83. (1) Every Ayurveda Store shall be-

(a) supervised by an Ayurveda Pharmacists registered under the Act who shall be responsible for the activities carried out in the stores;

(b) staffed with a qualified person possessing knowledge on Ayurveda drug;

(2) The staff shall be –

(a) provided with a proper training on methodologies, regulations and safety measures of storing medicine;

(b) informed and trained on optimum protection of personal health and sanitation; and

(c) provided with a protective uniform suitable for their work.

84. The following registers shall be maintained in the stores and shall be regularly updated:-

(a) staff management register; (b) register of issuance of stocks; (c) register of wholesale and retail purchasing stocks of medicine and bills;(d) Rasa stock register;(e) Register on the sale of other than rasa products; and (f) Register on the sale of imported medicine.

Part VIII

Standards for Distribution

85. For the purposes of this Part –

“Distribution” means, the process of supply, purchasing, keeping (other than in a store), sale, importation, exportation and transportation of the declared article substance or drug or any Ayurveda product mentioned from the manufactory up to the point of handing over to the beneficiary and, however it does not mean directly handing over the item to the beneficiary.

86. Any person or institution engaged in the distribution of any declared article, substance, drug or Ayurveda product (hereinafter referred to as the “Registrant”) shall be registered with the Regulatory Council. The registration shall be annually renewed.

87. Every registered manufactory who wishes to apply for registration for the distribution of declared article, substance, drug or Ayurveda product shall apply to the Regulatory Council for the purpose in the application in Form G as specified in Schedule II hereto.

88. Every Registrant referred to in regulation 86 or a registered manufactory referred to in regulation 87 shall submit information of the process of distribution and other relevant information as required by the Regulatory Council.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202430A

89. Every Distribution outlet shall-

(a) display a name board or name boards, as the case may be, at the main entrance open to the main road in an identifiable manner containing the name of the registered institution and the words “a distributor registered with the Department of Ayurveda” in all three languages along with registration number in terms of recommendations of the Regulatory Council;

(b) have sufficient infrastructure facilities determined by the Regulatory Council; and

(c) clearly display a Certificate of Registration of Distribution issued by the Regulatory Council in the Head Office and regional Office of the registered institution.

90. (1) The capacity of distribution, media and transportation methodologies utilized by the person or institution registered for distribution shall be to the satisfaction of the Regulatory Council.

(2) Instructions of the Regulatory Council shall be followed in situations which hampers distribution process due to natural disasters or similar unpredictable situations. In case of an emergency, precautionary and quarantine measures shall be followed to prevent their impact on the distribution process.

(3) All parties engaged in the process of distribution shall abide by regulations applicable for distribution and made under this Part.

(4) Regulations applicable for distributions made under this Part shall be complied with even in the distribution and transportation of donations to people affected by disasters.

91. Registration for distribution shall be valid only for distribution of approved products registered with the Regulatory Council.

92. Where a registered distributor seeks assistance of an external party to distribute products, vehicles suitable for the purpose shall be utilized and shall make sure that the quality of the products are not be affected by the transportation, humidity, temperature, physical contact and the process of distribution.

93. Every distributor at the time of registration for distribution under this Part shall submit to the Regulatory Council information relating to-

(a) written objectives and requirements of the distributor properly stated and approved by the Regulatory Council;

(b) methodology available to keep relevant manufacturers and the Regulatory Council immediately informed of unauthorized distributions suspected or confirmed;

(c) approved methodologies for all administrative and technical activities to ensure that products were undertaken from authorized suppliers and distributed to authorized institutions;

(d) mechanism to be followed in the exchange of distributions at distribution exchanges;

(e) written methodology to confirm unauthorized distributions or the stations suspected on such unauthorised distributions; and

(f) methodology to be in place for distributors to measure quality of distributions in order to check damages likely to be caused to such distributions.

94. (1) Where registration is sought in respect of distribution of declared articles, substances or drugs or Ayurveda

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

31A

products, vehicles with appropriate enclosed partitions or separate vehicles for each item shall be used in order to prevent items getting mixed up with each other.

(2) Where the vehicles used for distribution belong to a third party or are hired, the applicant shall submit a letter of consent from the vehicle owner along with a copy of his National Identity Card, a copy the revenue licence and certificate of registration of the vehicle to the Regulatory Council along with the application for registration for such distribution.

(3) In case of a change of the ownership of a vehicle approved by the Regulatory Council for distribution under this Part or where a new vehicle is purchased, information in that regard shall be submitted to the Regulatory Council within fourteen days of the occurrence of such change.

95. A registered distributor shall -

(a) be responsible for the entire process of distribution made under this Part;

(b) clearly provide written instructions to and raise awareness of relevant individuals, making such individuals understand the distribution process;

(c) appoint a person in the institution responsible and authorized for ensuring implementation of distribution process and maintenance thereof in terms of these regulations;

(d) appoint managers and technical officers having the authority and facilities required for identification of deviation from optimum process and its rectification;

(e) not entrust to an individual an unbearable amount of responsibility which may affect the quality of the item distributed;

(f) take steps to avoid conflicts of interests or commercial, political, financial or other influences upon people and management which are likely to have an adverse impact on the quality of the distribution service or the item distributed;

(g) ensure that the staff observes personal health and cleanliness;

(h) follow defence strategies in a manner not to damage persons, property and stability of the environment; and

(i) take appropriate measures under the existing laws in order to prevent instances of damaging and spoiling distributions, substitution or transportation of unauthorized substances.

96. (1) Every registered distributor shall deploy properly trained and qualified staff to carry out distribution activities.

(2) Special training shall be given to those who are distributing dangerous material and the Regulatory Council shall be reported of such trainings.

(3) All members of the staff of a registered distributor shall be clad in a uniform suitable for the task.

(4) The health and hygiene of the members of the staff shall be properly preserved specially when they are engaged in duty.

97. (1) All vehicles used for distribution shall, at all times, keep the distribution licence issued in respect of the vehicle, in the vehicle, in order to be produced at an emergency check.

(2) Vehicles used for transportation shall be suitable for the relevant distribution purposes.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202432A

(3) Storing facilities shall be available in the packaging space of the vehicle used for distribution, in a condition suitable for the relevant category of products.

(4) Only the Categories of declared articles, substances or drugs that do not have adverse effect on each other when kept together in the same environment shall be transported in the same vehicle.

(5) Purpose specific vehicles or single vehicles with doors and compartments separated shall be used for distribution of more than one category of product.

(6) Raw opium or cannabis shall be transported in terms of the provisions of Part IX of this Code.

(7) During transportation any expired or damaged Ayurveda product, article, substance or drug shall be separately stored.

(8) During transportation over active materials, radioactive materials, dangerous drugs, hazardous materials, sensitive objects, substances that may be misused and inflammable and explosive materials shall be kept separate from each other.

(9) Structure of the vehicle used for transportation shall be designed to minimize risks and mistakes. It shall also be in a condition easy to clean and not easily dirtied. It shall also have an opening applied with filters preventing entry of dirt from outside and maintain a proper ventilation. Doors shall be able to be closed tightly.

(10) It is suitable to maintain an electronic tracking device and a remote vehicle identifying system through a global positioning system (GPS).

(11) Every registered vehicle shall be expeditiously removed from transportation upon being dilapidated. Such vehicles shall not be re-used without being adequately repaired. Long term decay of a vehicle shall be informed to the Regulatory Council.

(12) The frame of a vehicle shall be finished heat resistant. Insulators shall be installed in every vehicle to prevent heating from sun rays.

(13) Vehicles shall have special facilities for storing (such as uniform temperature, humidity etc.) and facilities pertaining to transportation of required category of materials. Measuring devices shall be available for measuring those conditions. Relevant measurements shall be recorded at equal durations of time.

(14) In case where materials requiring refrigeration facilities are to be transported, refrigerators with suitable temperature controls shall be fixed under transportation environment.

(15) Areas for parking vehicles, containers and operating equipment shall not be placed at close proximity of open garbage dumping sites and public toilets. It shall also be a place away from other factors such as Agro-chemical sales outlets, chemical mixing stations, funeral parlours and vehicle service stations as determined by the Regulatory Council to be unsuitable for running a medicine manufactory

(16) The vehicles used for transportation shall be kept away from the likely intrusion of animals.

(17) Cleaning substances and disinfectants shall be used on the vehicle in such a manner so as not to contaminate the materials stored in the vehicle.

(18) Vehicles shall not be released to unauthorized persons.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

33A

Part IX

Provisions pertaining to Opium and Dangerous Drugs

98. Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter III and IV of the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218) the Commissioner-General, under the authority of the Minister for the purpose of giving force and effect to these regulations in terms of subsection (2) of section 77 of the Act shall-

(a) import raw or prepared opium;

(b) appoint such number of officers of the Department of Ayurveda as opium officers;

(c) issue licences to registered Ayurveda Practitioners, pharmacies and stores for the purposes of preparation of Ayurveda drugs and storage, transportation, distribution and issuance of raw or prepared opium, for the requirements in Ayurveda drugs; and

(d) maintain regional opium deposits for rations of opium as needed for the purposes of Ayurveda medicine and surgery out of the Central deposit of opium maintained by the Commission General.

99. (1) Every such deposit referred to in regulation 98 (d) shall be regulated subject to a procedure prepared by the Regulatory Council which shall contain criteria, guidelines, conditions for supervision and regulations pertaining to maintenance of any Opium deposit.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall maintain or cause to maintain records relating to-

(a) sources and amounts of the provision of opium to that deposit; and

(b) parties to whom such deposits were issued and amounts so issued shall be clearly recorded and maintained.

(3) The Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda, subject to the direction of the Commissioner-General, shall be responsible for the maintenance and supervision of the deposits in the Province.

(4) The Regulatory Council shall make rules relating to the issuance and use of opium by the deposits.

(5) The Commissioner-General, on recommendations of the Regulatory Council, shall appoint Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda as the Chief Regional Opium Officer.

(6) The Chief Regional Opium Officer shall establish the Regional Opium Board for the relevant district comprising of the following:-

(a) ex-officio members:-

(i) District Secretary to serve as the Chairman of the Board;(ii) Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda;(iii) Medical Superintendent of District Ayurveda Hospital;(iv) Superintendent of Police;(v) Director General of the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board or his representative; and(vi) District Excise Officer nominated by the Director General of Excise Act;

(b) Three Ayurveda Practitioners of Deshiya Chikithsa appointed by the Commissioner-General.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202434A

(7) Opium shall be issued by the Regional Opium Board to registered Ayurveda Practitioners who have been issued with a licence therefor, by the Commissioner-General.

100. (1) Any Ayurveda Practitioner who wishes to have an opium licence shall apply to the Commissioner-General in the Form H specified in the Schedule II hereto.

(2) The Commissioner-General, upon receipt of the application, in addition to information submitted in the application, shall require the applicant to submit further information, which he deems necessary for the issuance of the licence.

(3) The Commissioner-General shall, prior to issuing the licence, refer the application to Regional Opium Board of the relevant District for clearance and recommendations.

(4) After due consideration of the facts of the application, information submitted by the applicant and the recommendation made by Regional Opium Board of the relevant district, the Commissioner-General shall-

(a) issue the applicant a licence in the Format of the Certificate as specified in the Schedule IV hereto for the purchase of opium upon the payment of a fee specified in the Schedule III hereto; or

(b) reject the application with reasons assigned therefor.

(5) Every licence issued under sub-regulation (4) (a) shall be valid for a period of one year and may be renewed upon application to that effect made to the Commissioner-General in the Form H specified in the Schedule II hereto, prior to three months of the date of expiry of such licence.

(6) The Commissioner-General of Ayurveda, by taking into consideration the previous records of the Licence holder, may renew the licence upon payment of a fee specified in the Schedule III hereto for a further period of not less than one year. Where the application for renewal is not made prior to three months of its date of expiry, the applicant shall pay a late fee to be determined by the Commissioner-General.

(7) A holder of a licence shall purchase opium before the expiry of the period of validity of such licence. Where he purchases such opium after the expiry of such period of validity, he shall be liable to pay a penalty as determined by the Commissioner-General.

101. (1) The Commissioner-General shall cancel the licence issued under regulation 100 where,

(a) the holder of the licence has neglected compliance with any provisions of this Act, the Poison, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218), or these regulations or any conditions stipulated in a licence subject to which such opium licence has been issued; or

(b) manufacturing activities performed by using opium have been terminated; or

(c) opium issued has not been used properly in the production process in respect of which such licence was issued. (2) The Commissioner-General, prior to cancellation of a licence under paragraph (a) or (c) of sub-regulation (1) shall notify the holder, of the suspension of the licence requiring him to show cause within thirty days of issuance of such notice, as to why his licence shall not be cancelled.

(3) Where the holder of a licence-

(a) fails to respond to the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2) within the stipulated time period; or

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

35A

(b) does not provide a valid explanation to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General,

the Commissioner-General shall, forthwith cancel the licence and notify the holder of such cancellation.

(4) In the event of a cancellation of a licence, the holder of such cancelled licence shall return to the Commissioner-General opium, if any, purchased under the cancelled licence and in his custody, with immediate effect.

102. (1) An Ayurveda Practitioner holding an opium licence referred to as ‘licensed Ayurveda Practitioner’ in regulations 103, 104 and 105 may be permitted to receive opium, transport, keep in possession, store, use for products and to produce medicines containing opium subject to conditions specified from time to time by the Commissioner-General.

(2) Every Ayurveda practitioner holding an opium licence shall-

(a) be responsible for the opium in his custody;

(b) supervise the storing and transportation of opium and production of drugs using opium issued to him; and

(c) submit to the Commissioner-General an annual report on the types and amounts of medicine produced by the use of such amounts of opium, under his supervision and responsibility.

(3) The Regulatory Council shall keep a register of Ayurveda Practitioners holding opium licences, which shall be updated from time to time.

103. Any liceneced Ayurveda Practitioner violating provisions of the Act, or these regulations or any conditions stipulated in the licence relating to opium, opium licence or any matters incidental thereto shall be guilty of an offence under the respective laws and shall be dealt with accordingly. The Commissioner-General shall blacklist any such person, who has been convicted by a Court of law upon finding guilty of committing an offence relating to opium under these regulations.

104. (1) A licenced Ayurveda Practitioner shall make a request for opium in the specified form to the Regulatory Council, to be used in production purposes.

(2) The Regulatory Council shall levy a fee determined by the Regulatory Council for the opium issued to licenced Ayurveda Practitioners.

(3) The Commissioner-General of Ayurveda shall maintain a register to record every request for opium made under the provisions of these regulations, particulars of which to be included in that register shall be determined by the Regulatory Council.

(4) when making a request under sub-regulation (1), information relating to the types of products and amounts of products for which opium is intended to be used and any other relevant particulars shall be provided to the Regulatory Council during specific period of time as determined by the Council.

105. (1) The Commissioner-General of Ayurveda shall, notify the Ayurveda Practitioner who makes a request under regulation 104 in writing of such acceptance or rejection of the request within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the request.

(2) Appeal Board, after considering the explanations placed before it shall-

(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commissioner-General to issue the applicant opium; or

(b) disallow the appeal.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202436A

(3) The decision of the Appeal Board shall be final.

106. (1) Applying opium to the medicine in the course of its production shall be carried out under the supervision of an Ayurveda Community Medical Officer nominated by the Commissioner-General.

(2) The Ayurveda Community Medical Officer shall place his signature on the production reports.

107. No person shall cultivate Cannabis, keep them in possession or store, manufacture Ayurveda product using them or export such Ayurveda product or transport Cannabis without obtaining a licence issued for the purpose by the Commissioner-General assigning specific authority for each such purpose.

108. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be responsible for the issuance of licences as specified in Schedule IV hereto, to registered Ayurveda Practitioners to obtain Cannabis from the Department of Ayurveda and keep them in possession in amounts required for enforcement of the purposes of this Code.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall, on recommendations of the Regulatory Council issue licence to-

(a) Government entities;(b) Semi-government entities; and(c) private entities,

upon making a request therefor, to cultivate, receive, keep in possession, store, sell, supply, distribute or transport Cannabis for the purpose of manufacturing Ayurveda products, or export Ayurveda articles, substances or drugs and Ayurveda products manufactured by using Cannabis.

109. The Commissioner-General, upon recommendations of the Regulatory Council, shall decide on the category of registered Ayurveda Practitioners qualified for the receipt of Cannabis and the amount of Cannabis to be issued to them in terms of directives of the Commissioner-General.

110. (1) A registered Ayurveda Practitioner shall submit a written request in the form specified by the Commissioner-General to receive Cannabis for production of drugs for the purpose of treating patients.

(2) Such request shall be accompanied by the particulars of drugs and Ayurveda products intended to be made using Cannabis, together with a processing fee as may be determined by the Commissioner-General, from time to time.

(3) The Commissioner-General shall maintain a comprehensive document on every request received for obtaining Cannabis and the types of drugs and Ayurveda products intended to be made using Cannabis and the required amounts and all other relevant particulars which are included in that request.

(4) (a) The Regulatory Council may accept the said request within a specific period of time taking into consideration reports submitted and all other relevant information provided or reject the request.

(b) Where the request is accepted by the Regulatory Council, that fact shall be informed to the applicant in writing.

111. (1) Where the Regulatory Council rejects the request, such rejection, shall be informed to the applicant with reasons therefor within a period of thirty days and the applicant reserves the right to submit an appeal within thirty days of receipt of such rejection.

(2) An appeal under sub regulation (1) shall be submitted to the Commissioner-General in a format specified by the Commissioner-General and, when an oral explanation is required for the purpose, the applicant or his representative shall appear before the Regulatory Council and give such explanation. A Sub-Committee consisting of at least three members of the Regulatory Council may be appointed if an investigation is required to be conducted on the said appeal and the Commissioner-General may conditions subject to which such investigation shall be carried out.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

37A

(3) An applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Regulatory Council shall appeal to the Appeal Board referred to in Part X to this Code.

(4) When any specific condition or several conditions specified by the Commissioner-General under sub-regulation (2) is or are violated in the course of any investigation carried out under sub-regulation (2) or any other investigation carried out after giving approval for such registration, the Commissioner-General reserves the right to temporarily suspend the registration and blacklist the applicant upon recommendation of the Regulatory Council.

112. (1) A Government, semi-government or private entity that wishes to cultivate Cannabis or to receive, keep in possession, store, distribute or transport Cannabis, used in the manufacture of Ayurveda articles, substances or drugs and Ayurveda products for both exportation and local sales shall apply to the Regulatory Council to obtain licences for the relevant purpose.

(2) The application shall be by way of a project proposal with a feasibility report, which shall be submitted by way of an Expression of Interest to the Regulatory Council at an open bidding opportunity provided by the Regulatory Council.

(3) The Regulatory Council shall, prior to making its decision shall refer the project proposal and feasibility report to the Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee for evaluation and if necessary, to any other relevant authority to obtain their recommendations.

(4) The Regulatory Council may, where necessary, require the applicant to furnish further particulars and information on the project proposal prior to issuance of licence.

113. (1) For the purpose of Expression of Interest (EOI) under regulation 112 (2), every prospective applicant shall-

(a) be a legal person;(b) submit only one application in the Form I as specified in Schedule II hereto;(c) be an operator of a valid registered local drug manufactory or an institution run under the supervision of a Ayurveda Practitioner registered with the Ayurveda Medical Council;

(2) A duly completed application shall be submitted within the requred time period stipulated in the application.

(3) All relevant documents shall be submitted as attachments to the application.

(1) The project proposal and the feasibility study shall be submitted along with the application.

(2) Every application shall be accompanied with an affidavit stating the applicant’s willingness to start and continue the project mentioned in the EOI and shall be accompanied by audited financial statements of the applicant for two consecutive years.

(3) Any correction made to the application shall be hand written using blue ink and countersigned by the applicant.

114. (1) The Regulatory Council shall, after considering the application referred to it under regulation 113, issue a temporary licence for a period of six (6) months upon payment of a refundable deposit specified in the Schedule III hereto for the purpose of arranging necessary infrastructure for the project. No person shall commence work of the project under a temporary licence.

(2) The Refundable deposit shall only be refunded-

(a) in local currency, at the equivalent convertible rate of US Dollars prevailing on the date on which the application was submitted;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202438A

(b) where the applicant does not continue with the project after laps of six months upon deducting 10% of such refundable deposit; (c) where the work on the project has caused any damaged to the environment or any other similar damage upon deducting a percentage of the deposit sufficient to make good the loss as determined by the Regulatory Council on a valuation report submitted by a committee appointed for the purpose by such Council; (d) upon the receipt of the permanent licence and making the deposit referred to under sub regulation (2) of regulation 115.

(3) A holder of a temporary licence who does not apply for a permanent licence may sell the project property. However, a temporary licence shall not be transferrable under any circumstance.

115. (1) A holder of a temporary licence shall obtain a permanent licence prior to the commencement of operations of the Cannabis project.

(2) Upon the receipt of recommendations of the Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee on the temporary licence and having evaluated them, the Regulatory Council shall issue the permanent licence to the applicant who shall be referred to as “the Cannabis licencee” for the purposes of this Code, on the payment of a fee specified in Schedule III hereto and the deposit specified in Schedule III hereto.

(3) A Cannabis licencee shall commence operations of the project from the date of issuance of such permanent licence and shall provide a detailed report to the Regulatory Council, of the operations carried out in every month on or before the thirtieth day of next month. In case of export of such declared articles, substances, drugs or Ayurveda products made using Cannabis, documents related to each shipment shall be submitted for prior approval and a no-objection document shall be obtained from the Commissioner-General in report thereof.

(4) Every cannabis licencee shall, prior to exportation of a cannabis consignment, ensure the receipt of payment by way of-

(a) cash in advance Telegraph Transfer (TT); or(b) an irrevocable Letter of Credit (LC).

(5) In respect of all exported declared articles, substances, drugs or Ayurveda products made using Cannabis, the exporter shall submit fund-receiving documents from a commercial bank in Sri Lanka within three months of a shipment or before the next shipment, whichever occurs first.

(6) All bills shall be quantitatively related to market value of the consignment to be expected and undervaluation or overvaluation or violation of import and export regulations shall be grounds for cancellation of licence issued under sub-regulation (2).

(7) A temporary licence or a permanent licence may be canceled without assigning reasons therefor, where the information provided as required above is found to be false.

(8) A written notice of any change in the information relating to the project shall be forthwith be given to the Regulatory Council. (9) Inspection of the premises, manufactories, fields, cultivation, harvest or stores relating to the Cannabis project by an authorized officer or officers, shall be allowed at any time of the day.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

39A

(10) A Cannabis licencee shall, when carrying out a Cannabis project-

(a) employ proper supervision, adequate care and safety measures in recommended manner during cultivation, production, storage, transportation, marketing and export operations. All measures and techniques in respect thereof shall be provided by the Cannabis licencee;

(b) establish a formal procedure for the maintenance of an isolated zone for the project;

(c) construct fences and boundary walls with strict security to cover the entire area used for the project;

(d) arrange security personnel to patrol near boundary fences and walls, which shall have surveillance posts established covering the entire area of the cannabis project and armed guards shall be deployed for continuous duty;

(e) establish and maintain an uninterrupted lighting system powered by solar energy or alternative energy or from the national grid;

(f) auto changeover generators which produce more than 25% of the total required capacity, be additionally installed to maintain a continuous lighting system;

(g) light up the premises in a manner that every person entering the premises can be identified;

(h) have armed guards for continuous patrolling of the project area day and night at least once per hour and a record of the same shall be maintained;

(i) be equipped with electronic surveillance camera system and a fully secured surveillance room shall be established for surveillance, covering all areas of the relevant premises;

(j) establish a formal procedure for vehicles and personnel access control and its continuity shall be maintained;

(k) have a formal system for intrusion control and identification of intruders;

(l) have warning signal monitoring stations and emergency response team in the relevant area to ensure internal and external security of the premises;

(m) pack cannabis products hygienically and shall be packaged using approved containment methods;

(n) deploy armed personnel when transporting raw materials or products containing Cannabis;

(o) use one or more high security sealing methods in the packaging, transportation, sale and exportation of raw materials or products containing Cannabis; and

(p) keep records of attendance of all employees employed in each premises, accurately and continuously.

116. Every Cannabis Licence issued under the Code shall be __

(a) substantially in the Form Specified in Schedule IV hereto;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202440A

(b) subject to such terms and conditions specified therein and to the provisions of any other written law to the extent permitted for purposes of this Code;

(c) valid only in respect of the specified purpose, for which it has been issued; and

(d) valid for a period of one year and may be renewed on application made ninety days prior to the expiry of the term of licence.

117. (1) A Cannabis Licence issued under this Code shall be renewable on an application made in that behalf to the Regulatory Council in the Form I as specified in the Schedule II hereto within a period of ninety days prior to the expiry of the term of such licence.

(2) A Cannabis Licence shall be renewed by the Regulatory Council, only if it is satisfied that the Licenced Ayurveda Practitioner or the Cannabis licencee has adhered to the provisions of the Act and any other written law this Code and such terms and conditions specified in the licence.

118. (1) Upon the receipt of an application for renewal of a licence under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 117, the Regulatory Council shall, within thirty days of the receipt of such application, either-

(a) refer the application to the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants or to any other authority for recommendation; or

(b) reject the application assigning reasons therefor.

(2) The Regulatory Council shall, where it deems necessary may require the applicant to furnish further information relating to a matter or matters specified in the recommendations.

(3) Upon the receipt of such recommendations and on considering such recommendations and information furnished by the applicant and, on being satisfied that all terms and conditions of the licence have been complied with, the Regulatory Council shall -

(a) renew such licence for a period of one year on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule

III hereto; or

(b) for reasons to be recorded by the Regulatory Council, refuse to renew the licence. 119. Where the Regulatory Council has refused to renew such licence, the Regulatory Council shall-

(a) strike off the name of such Licenced Ayurveda Practitioner or the Cannabis licencee from the relevant register;

(b) take such measures as the Regulatory Council deems appropriate to ensure the items that have been already manufactured but not issued to the market and the items that are still in the process of being manufactured and the cannabis fields, crops, and harvest to be handed over to the Commissioner-General.

120. When the Cannabis licence is cancelled the Licenced Ayurveda Practitioner or the Cannabis licencee as the case may be shall immediately surrender the possession of Cannabis fields, harvest, remaining stocks and Ayurveda products to the Commissioner-General and the Commissioner-General shall on receipt of such information seize and seal such premises.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

41A

121. (1) Under this Code, every Ayurveda Practitioner who holds a Cannabis licence shall submit to the Commissioner-General an annual report prepared in the format specified by the Commissioner-General on the utility of the relevant amount of Cannabis for specified purposes under his supervision and also submit an audited financial report and the extent of his responsibility regarding same.

(2) A register of the names of all Ayurveda Practitioners who holds a Cannabis licence shall be maintained by the Commissioner-General based on their respective activity and such register shall be updated regularly.

122. Any Ayurveda Practitioner or Cannabis licencee or any other person who violates any provision of any written law, other than to the extent permitted by the provisions of this Part for the purposes of this Code or any terms and conditions specified by the Regulatory Council pertaining to Cannabis licence shall be guilty of an offence punishable under the Act or such other law, as the case may be and shall be dealt with accordingly.

123. (1) A Cannabis Licencee shall dispose only the residuals of cannabis, which shall be sold to any other industry registered with the Ministry of Industries under an agreement entered into that effect and security parameters determined by the Regulatory Council in respect thereof.

(2) The Cannabis licencee shall maintain a register of every stock of residual Cannabis. 124. (1) Where the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda is of the opinion that-

(a) a Licenced Ayurveda Practitioner or the Cannabis licencee has neglected compliance with any term or condition under which any Cannabis licence has been issued;

(b) manufacturing activities performed by using opium have been terminated;

(c) opium issued has not been properly used in the manufacture of the registered product products;

(d) a holder of a licence issued under this Part has neglected adherence to any of the term or conditions imposed by the Regulatory Council; or

(e) a holder of a licence issued under this Part has violated any provision of the Act or this Code or any rule or guideline made thereunder;

the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda shall temporarily suspend the relevant licence, submit relevant information to the Regulatory Council and make arrangements to issue a notice of suspension on the Cannabis Licencee upon recommendations of the Regulatory Council. If the matter needs to be further investigated, the Regulatory Council may appoint a committee consisting of at least three members of the Regulatory Council for the purpose.

(2) Upon such suspension the orders issued by the Regulatory Council shall be followed in respect of whom the notice of suspension has been issued.

(3) The said notice of suspension shall include the reasons for such suspension and require the Cannabis Licencee to show cause in writing within fourteen days of the issuance of that notice as to why such licence shall not be cancelled.

(4) When Cannabis Licencee neglects the submission of the explanations as required under sub-regulation (3) within the period stipulated for the purpose or upon consideration of the explanations so submitted, the decision of the Regulatory Council shall be notified immediately to such Cannabis Licencee.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202442A

(5) If, for any reason, a licence is to be canceled based on the decision of the Regulatory Council, it is the responsibility of the person who held such licence to obey rules of such suspension or invalidation and disobeying them shall be a violation of the provisions of this Code.

(6) (a) A Cannabis licencee shall complete the work pertinent to each licence before the expiry of the period of validity of the lilcence.

(b) If any amount of Cannabis remains unused prior to the date of expiry of the period of validity of that licence, they shall duly be handed over to the issuing authority.

125. (1) A Cannabis deposit shall be maintained under conditions stipulated under this Code and under direct supervision of the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda. All its activities shall be regulated subject to a procedure to be formulated by the Regulatory Council.

(2) The said procedure shall contain clear criteria pertaining to the maintenance of a Cannabis deposit, requirements to be satisfied, guidelines to be followed, conditions to be stipulated and sources of receipt of Cannabis to that deposit and methodologies of distribution.

(3) Issuing authority shall maintain a disposal store for storing Cannabis handed over for disposal in terms of this Code. All the activities of the disposal store shall be regulated subject to a procedure formulated by the Regulatory Council.

126. (1) Guidelines on encouraging research on products made of herbal Cannabis and their intelligent use based on the results obtained upon using such products may be considered by the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda with recommendations of the Regulatory Council.

(2) The Commissioner-General of Ayurveda may permit, upon recommendations of the Regulatory Council and subject to conditions stipulated under this Code, export, store, keep in possession or sell any constituent of or any derivative extracted from, herbal Cannabis.

127. (1) Action may be taken on any medicine containing Cannabis in terms of the provisions in Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance only if the breach of the provisions of this Code relating to the production of such medicine is proved with evidence.

(2) Any premises registered by the Regulatory Council for cultivation, storage, transportation, and export of Cannabis production of any medicine by the use of them, and storing of such medicines and sale of such medicine under this Code may, at any time, be inspected by the Regulatory Council or the Commissioner-General or an officer authorized by the Commissioner-General.

(3) Where any officer authorized for the purposes of any other written law enters any premises registered under this Code, an officer authorized by the Commissioner-General shall accompany such officer.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

43A

Part X

Appeals Board

128. (1) The Minister shall establish such number of Appeals Boards (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Appeals Board’) to hear and determine the appeals of any person aggrieved by a decision of the Regulatory Council relating to any matter of under this Code.

(2) An Appeals Board appointed under subsection (1) shall be subject specific and shall be comprised of-

(a) a retired judge of the Court of Appeal who shall serve as the Chairman of the Appeals Board;

(b) two persons who possess expertise and experience in the subject matter of the appeal;

(3) Every member of an Appeals Board shall sign Terms of Reference prior to hearing of an appeal assigned to it. An Appeals Board appointed under this Part may hear and determine such number of appeals assigned to it.

(4) Every appointment to an Appeals Board shall be subject to such terms and conditions.

(5) Rules shall be made in respect of the conduct of business of an Appeals Boards. (6) Members of an Appeals Board shall be paid such allowance as may be determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

129. An Appeals Board shall have power-

(a) to hear and determin the appeals of persons who are aggrieved by a decision of the Regulatory Council.(b) to call expert opinion and order the appellant or any other party to furnish further information and particulars, as may be required by such Appeals Board.

Part XI

General Provisions

130. (1) Transportation of every consignment of __

(a) raw cannabis or opium; (b) declared article, substance, drug or an Ayurveda product made using cannabis or opium;(c) declared medicinal plants as determined by the Regulatory Council; (d) minerals, animal matter, goods; or(e) poisons or any dangerous drug as determined by the Regulatory Council,shall be carried out under the authority of a permit obtained from the Commissioner-General for that purpose.

(2) The volume of a consignment referred to in sub-regulation (1) above, shall be determined by the Commissioner-General in accordance with guidelines issued for the purpose by the Regulatory Council.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202444A

(3) purchasing of -

(a) raw cannabis or opium; (b) any declared article, substance, drug or an Ayurveda product made using cannabis or opium;(c) declared medicinal plants as determined by the Regulatory Council; (d) minerals, animal matter, goods; or(e) poisons or any dangerous drugs as determined by the Regulatory Council,shall be carried out under the authority of a permit obtained from the Commissioner-General for that purpose.

(4) Advertising, promotion or propaganda, directly or indirectly, of any-

(a) declared article, substance, drug or an Ayurveda product;(b) activity; or(c) place of business,under this Code, in any print or electronic media including social media shall be carried out under the authority of a permit obtained from the Commissioner-General in accordance with guidelines issued for the purpose by the Regulatory Council.

(5) Fee for a permit issued under sub regulations (1), (3) and (4) above, shall be determined by the Commissioner-General.

(6) Any regulation by or a licence or permit issued to a government institution under this Code shall be free of charge.

131. Any advertisement, promotion or propaganda made in relation to a matter referred to in paragraph (a) of sub regulation (4) shall not –(a) contain any safety claim or therapeutic claim;(b) use human beings or animals as models;(c) contain any image offensive to the standard of morality or decency prevailing in the Sri Lanka society;(d) have any visual or audio presentation of any Ayurveda practitioner, which gives the impression of professional or scientific advice, recommendation or endorsement; or(e) contain any other material as determined by the Regulatory Council.

132. (1) A general insurance cover with a coverage at least for the third party shall be obtained in respect of every-(a) pharmacy;(b) manufactory;(c) store;(d) sales outlet;(e) vehicle engaged in distribution; or(f) field of declared medicinal plants,specified under these regulations.

(2) A special insurance cover as determined by the Regulatory Council shall be obtained in respect of every Cannabis Project specified under these regulations.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

45A

Part XII

Transitional Provisions

133. (1) The Ayurveda Pharmacies Regulations of 1973, published in Gazette Extraordinary No.229/3 of September 6, 1973 are hereby rescinded.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the above regulations, every act or deed previously done thereunder shall be deemed to be valid and in force.

(3) Every Ayurveda pharmacy registered under the above regulations, shall require to be re-registered under the provisions of these regulations, within a period of six months from the appointed date or on the expiry of the licence issued in respect thereof, whichever occurs first.

134. (1) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that the provisions of these regulations shall-

(a) not affect processing of any application submitted for the purpose of obtaining any registration, licence or permit under the Act, which has been made prior to the appointed date;

(b) not affect the validity of any registration made or licence or permit issued under the Act prior to the appointed date;

(c) not derogate the powers of the Department of Ayurveda or Commissioner-General, to charge, levy or recover any fee or any expense due on the appointed date in respect of a matter carried out under these regulations; or

(d) not affect any action or suit pending before a court of law or any decision of a court of law given prior to the appointment date.

(2) Every registration made or licence, or permit issued under the Act prior to the appointed date shall remain valid for their respective periods of validity.

135. For the purposes of these regulations __

“Act” means the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“Ayurveda” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“an Ayurveda product” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“Ayurveda Community Medical Officer” means a medical officer appointed by the Department of Ayurveda to provide primary health care to the public;

“an underlined drug” means a drug that shall not be substituted;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202446A

“Cannabis” means all varieties of Cannabis including Cannabis Sativa L

“Commissioner-General of Ayurveda” means the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda appointed under section 3 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“Department of Ayurveda” means the Department of Ayurveda established under section 2 of the Ayurveda

Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“District Secretary” means the District Secretary referred to in the Transfer of Powers (Divisional Secretaries)

Act, No. 58 of 1992;

“Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)” means an environmental impact assessment carried out under

Part IVC of the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;

“Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)” means an initial environmental examination carried out under

Part IVC of the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;

“Environmental Protection Licence (EPL) means an Environmental Protection licence obtained under Part

IVA of the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;

“herbal” means any naturally derived plant or mineral or animal substance or part or extract used for medicinal value;

“Herbal Gardens for Research and Extension” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the

Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“Minister” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“medicinal plants” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda” means the Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda for the respective

Province appointed under section 32 of the Provincial Council Act No.42 of 1987;

“rasa medicine” means any medicine produced by using minerals in accordance with the Ayurveda Pharmacopeia for therapeutic purposes;

“registered Ayurveda Practitioner” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda

Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“registered pharmacy” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“registered store” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961;

“residuals of Cannabis” shall mean any part of the Cannabis plant devoid of any kind of active ingredients or compounds.

“State University” includes a university established under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 or by an Act of Parliament.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

47A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

1wxflkaotpLfdiy/Kl;lehupClaw Flowered LaurelAcronychia Pedunculata

2wlalmdkUzf;fs;sp/ nrhlf;Fcathedral bellsKalanchoe pinnata

3wlalrmÜg4wlaue,a,Toothache PlantAcmella oleracea

5wlafIdgehl;L mfnul;LCandle Nut TreeAleurites moluccanus

6w.s,anrk;Gspr;rhd;Erythroxylum indicum

nrk;kzj;jpErythroxylum sideroxyloides

7wÜálaldmj;jpCluster figFicus racemosa

8w~kysßhfpYfpYg;igRattleweedCrotalaria atusia

Crotalaria cuneifolia9w;a;kfUCkj;ijThorn AppleDatura metel

Brugmansia suaveolens

nts;is Ckj;ijBrugmansia chlorantha

10w;isMsptpijFlaxseed.Linum usitatissimum

11w;súvhïmjptplak;Aconites,Aconitum heterophyllum

12wkaortplj;jiySickle BushAcacia cinerea

Acacia dalea13wkakdismd;dhrppineappleAnanas comosus

14wfkdaodtl;lj;Jj;jpcountry mallowAbutilon indicum

15wnfLFblack mustardBrassica nigra

16wìxmgpd;opium poppyPapaver somniferum

17wuqtuFkodo milletPaspalum scrobiculatum

18wuqlalrdmKf;fuhIndian Winter cherryWithania somnifera

Schedule I

[Regu. 2]

Part I

DECLARED Medicinal PLANTS

Medicinal plants include any Siddha, Unani, Deshiya Chikithsa (Traditional) or indigenous medicines, which shall be similar to following medicinal plants used in other countries.

ශාක ඖෂධ නාමලේඛනය / List of Herbal Medicines / %ypif kUe;Jfspd; gl;bay;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202448A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

19whsi.=,a20wr;a;Nguuj;ijLesser galangal Snap GingerAlpinia calcarata

21wr,shmyuptemple treePlumeria apiculata

Plumeria bahamensisPlumeria obtusa22wr¿fLf;fha;Chebulic MyrobalanBuceras chebula

Bucida comintana BlancoTerminalia chebula23wr¿mamsá24wjßh ^ks,a&mTupIndigo BlueAnil tinctoria

Anil tinctoriaIndigofera tinctoria25wfYdalmNrhfkuk;Asoka TreeJonesia asoca

Jonesia confusaSaraca asoca26wIagj¾.h27wiajekakngUk;Gyu;j;jpAlyce CloverAlysicarpus cylindricus

Alysicarpus diversifoliusAlysicarpus vaginalis28wifudao.ïXkk;Brachyapium involucratum

Stoibrax involucratumTrachyspermum involucratum29wyqEzhNoniMorinda angustifolia

Morinda asperaMorinda citrifolia30wdvf;davdMlhNjhilMalabar nutAdeloda serrata

Adhatoda adhatodaJusticia adhathoda31weÜfÜßhntq;fhiuorange jasmineChalcas cammuneng

Chalcas intermediaMurraya paniculata32wegUkhSri Lankan mangoBuchanania zeylanica Blume

Mangifera zeylanica33we;af;dartz;Lnfhy;ypringworm bushCassia alataL

Cassia alataCassia alata34we;afid~Njs;nfhLf;FIndian HeliotropeEliopia riparia

Eliopia serrata

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

49A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Heliotropium indicum35we;afougFkpo;Comb TreeGmelina arborea

Gmelina arboreaGmelina arborea36wem,a37weU/,a,dmk;guy;yhgolden appleChrysomelon pomiferum

Cytheraea dulcisSpondias dulcis38weUq,a weô,shgspahiucreeping woodsorrel.Acetosella corniculata

Acetosella corniculataOxalis corniculata39weUq,a fodvïGspj;Njhil/ehuj;ijsour orangeAurantium ×acre

Citrus aurantium40we,aMy;

41wei;=muRSacred Fig TreeFicus religiosa

42wei< ^weye<&Golden Shower TreeBactyrilobium fistula

Cassia bonplandiana

ruf;nfhd;iwCassia fistula

43blsßMWKs;spholly-leaved acanthusAcanthus doloarin

Acanthus ebracteatusAcanthus ilicifolius44bÕsks wegNjw;whClearing Nut TreeStrychnos heterodoxa

Strychnos monospermaStrychnos potatorum45bÕ=‍re,Q;rpGingerAmomum angustifolium

Amomum zingiberZingiber officinale46j,a bÕ=‍reCylindric GingerZingiber cylindricum

47bx.=ÈeQ;Rz;lhd;Desert date'Balanites aegyptiaca

48boaoFlrg;ghiyArtic SnowEchites antidysentericus

Nerium antidysentericumWalidda antidysenterica49bmsld;a50b¢<Q;RCeylon date palmPhoenix pusilla

51bUq,akiy ,ytk;Silk Cotton TreeBombacopsis quinata

Bombax aculeatumBombax ceiba52bruqiqed;dhupIndian sarsparillaHemidesmus indicus

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202450A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Hemidesmus pubescensHemidesmus indicus53l¿ bruqiq54bßfïodNty;sweet acaciaAcacia farnesiana

55bßfõßh,UNtypColeus forskalae

Coleus personatusPlectranthus zatarhendi56b¨‍laehzy;Spear GrassArundo epigeios

Cogon GrassCalamagrostis lagurusImperata cylindrica57B;KSpear grassAndropogon allionii

Andropogon austrocaledonicusHeteropogon contortus58B,a,gj;jbAfrican Tulip Tree,Bignonia tulipifera

Spathodea danckelmanianaSpathodea campanulata59WlafUk;GSugarcaneSaccharum officinarum

60W.=/iaigovernor's plumFlacourtia afra

Flacourtia balansae

fUKWf;fpFlacourtia indica

61WOx.k îc ^iduodk&Nej;jpu Gz;LNarrow-Leaf BlepharisAcanthus integrifolius

Acanthus repens

Blepharis integrifolia62Wvla;d$Wola;d63W÷black gramAzukia muogo

Phaseolus aureus

cSe;JVigna mungo

64W÷msh,sThree flower beggarweedAeschynomene triflora

Desmodium bullamense

rpWGs;sbDesmodium triflorum

65Wÿïnrcluster figFicus racemosa

66WK%q;fpy;bambooBambusa vulgaris

67WKlmqre,ytq;fk;Camphor CinnamonCinnamomum capparu

68WKf.dn%q;fpy;bambooBambusa vulgaris

69W,dwßis$W¿yd,ante;jak;FenugreekTrigonella foenum

70t~re$tr~qCastor beanCataputia major

Cataputia minor

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

51A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Mkzf;FRicinus communis

71tkid,aVyk;cardamomElettaria cardemomum

72t,aj¿Sour cherryPrunus cerasus

73t,bUq,ared silk-cotton treeBombacopsis quinata

Bombax aculeatum

,yt kuk;Bombax ceiba

74t,msgjlaldfPo;fha; ney;ypStone BreakerDiasperus debilis

Phyllanthus boninsimaePhyllanthus debilis75trnÿKs;KUf;FVariegated Coral TreeChirocalyx candolleanus

Chirocalyx divaricatusErythrina variegata76t,ngqEggplantMelongena esculenta

Melongena incurva

fj;jupSolanum melongena

77t,ìka;Uqremlg;gq;nfhbBeach Morning Glory,Ipomoea pes-caprae

78taldfõßhghk;Gf;fshIndian SnakerootOphioxylon album

Ophioxylon obversumRauvolfia serpentina79T,s|Fd;wpkzprosary peaAbrus precatorius

80T,sõolive treeOlea europaea

81´,a¨‍$´¨‍my;yp/ nts;shk;gy;pink water-lilyCastalia pubescens

Nymphaea devoniensisNymphaea pubescens82lioajg83lxidfQ;rhHemp Marihuana

Marijuana Soft

hemp True hemp

Cannabis sativa

Cannabis indicaCannabis ruderalisCannabis hybrids84lkaflda,thy;kpsFJava pepperPiper cubeba

85ll=¿iqÕ=‍fu;flfrpQ;fpzebrawoodPistacia integerrima

86lÜM,bayberryMyrica nagi

87lgfrdvq$lgfrdÿblue peaClitoria albiflora

Clitoria bracteata

fd;dpf;nfhbClitoria ternatea

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202452A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

88lgqlr~qnrk;Ks;sphophead Philippine violetBarleria macrostachya

Barleria monostachyaBarleria lupulina89lgqlfrdaikfLFNuhfpdpPicrorhizaPicrorhiza scrophulariiflora

90lgqfm|Spiny Naiad.Najas marina

91lgqje,angqfz;lq;fj;jpThorny night shade,Solanum arabicum

Solanum armatumSolanum virginianum92l;=reuqrex.dmfj;jpScarlet Wistaria TreeAeschynomene grandiflora

Agati grandifloraSesbania grandiflora93lfkaremuspOleanderNerion oleandrum

Nerium carneumNerium oleander94lmamrj,a,shfw;Guty;ypIndian borageColeus amboinicus

Coleus aromaticusPlectranthus amboinicus95lmqfw;G{uk;tree cottonCamphor Cinnamon

Gossypium anomalumGossypium arboreum96lmqlsksiaimusk mallowAbelmoschus abelmoschus

ntz;bAbelmoschus betulifolia

Abelmoschus moschatus97lmqrecamphorCamphor Cinnamon

98lnrikiyj;jhkiuSmilax ceylanica Oken

Smilax collina Kunth99lïmS,a,fgpykumkum treeMallotus philippensis

100lr|Indian beechCajum pinnatum

Cytisus pinnatus

Gq;FPongamia pinnata

101lrmsxpfwpNtg;gpiycurry leafBergera koenigii

Camunium koenigiiMurraya koenigii102lrUrpWfpsha;ConkerberryAntura edulis

Antura hadiensisCarissa spinarum103lr,aiefndaehAUtpDevil's horsewhipAchyranthes acuminata

Achyranthes aspera

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

53A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Achyranthes aspera104lrú,ghfy;Bitter gourd,Cucumis argyi

Cucumis intermediusMomordica charantia105lrdnqfuhk;GCloveCaryophyllus aromaticus

Caryophyllus hortensisSyzygium aromaticum106l,d÷reNfhiuCoco GrassChlorocyperus rotundus

Chlorocyperus salaamensisCyperus rotundus

107l¿leïfïßhkzy; jf;fhspAmerican Black NightshadeSolanum amarantoides

Solanum americanumSolanum americanum

108l¨‍ÿrefUQ;rPufk;Black cuminNigella sativa

109l¨‍jd110liô,shdngUk; fhQ;nrhupHawaii WoodnettleBoehmeria interrupta

Boehmeria javanicaLaportea interrupta

111lfiarel$lfiaregreater club rushScirpus grossus

112ly$w;alyturmericAmomum curcuma

Curcuma brog

kQ;rs;Curcuma longa

113lyg$j.mq,awild guavaBarringtonia arborea

Careya orbiculataCareya arborea

114ldflda,sHardy GingerRoscoea purpurea

115ldurx.dstar fruitAverrhoa acutangula

jhkuj;ijAverrhoa pentandraAverrhoa carambola

116ld,fï>rpwpahs;eQ;ifgreen chirettaAndrographis paniculata

117ld,od;d118lelsßJk;kl;bMuskmelonBryonia collosa

Bryonia collosaCucumis melo

119lel=Kehl;L mfNuhl;Lthe candlenutAleurites ambinux

Aleurites angustifoliusAleurites moluccana

120leysms;a;kanghd; KRk;ilIndian moon-seedClypea burmanni

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202454A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Cocculus burmanni .Cyclea peltata

121lE,gyhRflame-of-the-forestButea monosperma

122lsvdrxfUizf;fpoq;FElephant Foot YamAmorphophallus campanulatus

Amorphophallus campanulatusAmorphophallus paeoniifolius

123ls;=,afpj;Js;jaggery palmCaryota urens

124ls‚ysÍfhl;L gUj;jpButtercup Tree,Bombax gossypium

Bombax religiosumCochlospermum religiosum

125lsßw.=KFwpQ;rhGreen Milkweed ClimberApocynum tiliifolium

Asclepias viridifloraWattakaka volubilis

126lsßnÿepyg;G{rzpRailway CreeperApopleumon bignonioides

Batatas bignonioidesIpomoea mauritiana

127lSlsß¢hfalse daisyAbasoloa taboada

Acmella lanceolata

fuprpyhq;fz;zpEclipta prostrata

128l=xl=umamq129l=l=reudkakJf;fhiuEmetic nutRandia dumetorum

130l=vqñßiorange climber.Cranzia aculeata

Cranzia asiaticaToddalia asiatica

131l=kaÿrelalka'Indian frankincenseBoswellia serrata

132l=mamfïkshFg;igNkdpIndian mercuryAcalypha canescens

Acalypha carolinianaAcalypha indica

133l=Uqlaarjun treeMyrobalanus cuneata

Pentaptera angustifolia

kUJTerminalia arjuna

134l=Uqrefow;rpGrey NickerBonduc canadense

Bonduc minusCaesalpinia bonduc

135l=re÷Ceylon cinnamonCamphora mauritiana

Camphorina cinnamomum

fWthCinnamomum verum

136l=Y;Kju;g;ighalfa grassDesmostachya Bipinnata

137l+rmwf;fPiuslender amaranthAlbersia caudata

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

55A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Albersia gracilisAmaranthus viridis

138flláhWavy-edged AponogetonAponogeton echinatus

Spathium crispumAponogeton crispus

139lDñYia;D140fl<s|Flrg;ghiyTellicherry barkHolarrhena antidysenterica

141fl<s|yd,aTellicherry barkHolarrhena antidysenterica

142flfi,athiobananasMusa paradisiaca

143fldl=ïfmd;=red mangoTrigonocarpus littoralis

Kokoona zeylanica

144fldÜgïNfh];lk;Costus root. ItSaussurea lappa

145fldÜgïndSea AlmondBadamia commersonii

Buceras catappaTerminalia catappa

146fldgÈUq,dHairy FigCovellia assamica

Covellia courtallensis

Ngaj;jpFicus hispida

147fld;a;u,a,snfhj;jky;ypcorianderCoriandrum sativum

148fld;,ysUqgqSalaciaSalacia reticulata

149fldajlaldnfht;itIvy GourdBryonia acerifolia

Bryonia alceifoliaCoccinia grandis

150fldys,Spiny LasiaDracontium spinosum

Lasia aculeata

nfhfpyLasia spinosa

151fldfydUNtk;GneemAntelaea azadirachta

Antelaea canescensAzadirachta indica

152fldfnda,S,nts;is ke;jhiuwhite orchid-treeBauhinia linnaei

Casparia acuminataBauhinia acuminata

153fldrdidks154fld,a,ïfjpu;gr;irIndian patchouliPogostemon heyneanus

155fld,a¨‍nfhs;Shorse gramDolichos uniflorus

Glycine unifloraMacrotyloma uniflorum

156fldf<dïkQ;rf; flk;GYellow teakHaldina cordifolia

Nauclea cordifolia

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202456A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Haldina cordifolia

157fldaka;d,ïflk;gk;Common PutatBarringtonia racemosa

158fldaudßldfw;whisMedicinal AloeAloe barbadensis

Aloe barbadensisAloe vera

159laIjl$úI¥,sSpreading Sneeze WeedArtemisia minima

Artemisia orbicularis

kupf;nfhOe;JCentipeda minima

160laISr ldflda,swhite Himalayan lilyLilium polyphyllum

161.xiQßhportia treeBupariti altissima

Bupariti populnea

GtuRThespesia populnea

162.c;smams,sMidj;jpg;gypScindapsus officinalis

163.ïud¨‍$wikNtq;ifMalabar kinoLingoum marsupium

Pterocarpos marsupiusPterocarpus marsupium

164.ïñßiakpsFblack pepper,Muldera multinervis

Piper aromaticumPiper nigrum

165.,al+rgpz;zhf;ff; fPiuthe chocolateweedGeruma subtriloba

Hibiscus doniiMelochia corchorifolia

166.,siaGardenia crameri

167.ialemafmÜáhnjg;gbCroton laccifer

168.iafmfk,gziythree-leaf soapberry,Sapindus abstergens

Sapindus acutusSapindus trifoliata

169.egfkgq,agpuha;Siamese rough bushAchymus pallens

Achymus patensStreblus asper

170.sß;s,a,rKj;jpug;ghiyElephant creeperArgyreia populifolia

Argyreia populifoliaArgyreia populiolia

171.=.=,aFf;FYIndian bdellium-treeCommiphora wightii

172.=/kaostinkwoodCeltis cinnamomea

Celtis crenatoserrataCeltis timorensis

173f.dxlelsßnkhRnkhRf;ifMadras pea pumpkinBryonia cordifolia

Bryonia gracilis

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

57A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Mukia maderaspatana

174f.dgqfld<ty;yhiuAsiatic pennywortCentella asiatica

Centella boninensisCentella asiatica

175f.dvlÿrevl;bpoison nut,Strychnos nux-vomica

Strychnos ovalifolia StokesStrychnos nux-vomica

176f.dvudfk,atpr%q;fpy;Wild Onion Milk and Wine LilyAmaryllis insignis

Amaryllis littoralisCrinum latifolium

177pdW,auq.%dJanli AlmondHydnocarpus wightianus

178Ök w,China RootCacalia bulbosa

Cacalia maculataGynura pseudo-china

179cgdudxi[lhkhQ;rpy;spikenardNardostachys jatamansi

180chmd,purging crotonAlchornea vaniotii

Alchornea vaniotii

Neu;thsk;Croton tiglium

181c,fõ;i182Ôjl[Ptfk;JeevakMicrostylis wallichii

Malaxis acuminata

183Ôjka;sghiyf;nfhbCork Swallow-WortLeptadenia reticulata

184;Kyd,ajpidFoxtail milletAlopecurus caudatus

Chaetochloa germanicaSetaria italica

185;U,Fukien tea treeCarmona heterophylla

Fuq;F ntw;wpiyCarmona microphyllaCarmona retusa

186;,agidPalmyra PalmBorassus flabelliformis

Borassus sundaicusBorassus flabellifer

187;,SesameAnthadenia sesamoides

Sesamum africanum

vs;Sesamum indicum

188;,siaHimalayan silver firAbies webbiana

189;e,aWild petuniaConvolvulus obscurus

rpWjhspIpomoea obscura

190;s;a;,nqbottle gourdLagenaria siceraria

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202458A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

191;s;a; jegfld¿Nga;gPu;f;FBitter Sponge GourdLuffa echinata

192;s;a;je,a193;smams,sjpg;gypLong pepperChavica longa

Chavica roxburghiiPiper longum

194;smams,s uq,ajpg;gyp Ntu;Long pepperChavica longa

Chavica roxburghiiPiper longum

195;síngqturkey berry,Solanum acanthifolium

Solanum amoenum

Rz;ilSolanum torvum

196;sôßMalabar Ebony,Diospyros biflora

Diospyros citrifoliaDiospyros malabarica

197;s/ia;ajd¨‍rptijturpethOperculina turpethum

198;sßÕ=‍NfhJikCommon wheatTriticum aestivum

199;s,mqIamS$äðgd,siaeupg;Gifapiypurple foxgloveDigitalis purpurea

200;=kam;a l=re÷Winged Naringi.Anisifolium alatum

FUe;JHesperethusa alataPleiospermium alatum

201;=UCeylon slitwortLeucasia zeylanica

Phlomis gracilis

KbJk;igLeucas zeylanica

202;=U lrú,nkOFg;ghfy;spiny gourdMomordica dioeca

Momordica hamiltonianaMomordica dioica

203;=jr,dIndian ValerianValeriana harmsii

Valeriana hygrobiaValleriana jatamansi

204f;nqNfhl;lk;Crepe GingerAmomum arboreum

Amomum hirsutumCostus speciosus

205f;,lSßhMilky MangroveCommia cochinchinensis

mfjpExcoecaria affinisExcoecaria agallocha

206f;alalNjf;FteakTectona grandis

207f;acm;%jhsprgj;jpupIndian bay leafCinnamomum tamala

208f;dá,ghiyAilr;rpMidnight HorrorArthrophyllum ceylanicum

Arthrophyllum reticulatum

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

59A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Oroxylum indicum

209;%dhudKdfk;ge;jpiuIndian GentianGentian kurroa

210oolSßhmk;khd;gr;ruprpHairy SpurgeEuphorbia Hirta

211o¿larJuf;fs;spantique spurgeEuphorbia antiquorum

Euphorbia arborescensEuphorbia antiquorum

212odreyßødIndian barberryBerberis aristata

213fjksje,akukQ;rs;False CalumbaCoscinium maingayi

Coscinium miosepalumCoscinium fenestratum

214oe;a;nghLjiyTurkey Tangle FogfruitPhyla nodiflora

215oej216Èhmr~e,a217oEiukarhjpky;ypifSpanish JasmineJasminum grandiflorum

218Èhñ;a;tl;lj;jpUg;gpVelvet LeafCissampelos acuminata

Cissampelos argenteaCissampelos pareira

219Èhñfo,a,powder-puff treeBarringtonia apiculata

Barringtonia caffra

flk;gk;Barringtonia racemosa

220Èh,nqRuf;fha;Bottle GourdAdenopus abyssinicus

Cucumis bicirrhaLagenaria siceraria

221Èhynr,hastate-leaved pondweedCalcarunia hastata

Carigola hastata

fUq;FtiaMonochoria hastata

222ÿïue,a,GNlhy;Snake GourdTrichosanthes cucumerina

223Èjq,atpshwood-appleAnisifolium curvispina

Anisifolium limoniaLimonia acidissima

224ÿyq÷black oil plantAlsodeia glabra

thSYitCatha paniculataCelastrus paniculatus

225fougAsian BushbeechBignonia discolor

Fkpo;Bignonia moluccanaGmelina asiatica

226fo¿ïpomegranateGranatum punicum

khJisPunica floridaPunica granatum

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202460A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

227foysvYkpr;irWest Indian lime,Citrus × acida

Citrus × aurantiifoliaCitrus aurantifolia

228foajodrNjtjhWdeodar cedarCedrus Deodara

229foõÿre230fodUGd;idAlexandrian laurel balltree Balsamaria inophyllum

Calophyllum apetalumCalophyllum inophyllum

231foaõod,sNga;g;gPu;f;fBristly LuffaLuffa echinata

232OkajhdiFagonia cretica

233kjykaÈnfhk;Gf;fs;spIndian tree spurgeEuphorbia tirucalli

234kiakdrxPanama OrangeCitrofortunella madurensis

Atalantia hindsiiCitrus madurensis

235kdehfkuk;Ceylon IronwoodCalophyllum nagassarium

Mesua ferreaMesua ferrea

224kdmsß;a;dWild HibiscusFurcaria furcellata

Furcaria roxburghiiHibiscus furcatus

237kdrxLoose -skinned orange.Citrus crenatifolia

238kslnehr;rpFive-leaved Chaste TreeAgnus-castus negundo

Vitex agnus-castusVitex negundo

239ksÈl=ïnnjhl;lhy;Ruq;fpsensitive plantEburnax pudica

Mimosa pudica

240kq.My;the banyanFicus banyana

Ficus chauvieriFicus benghalensis

241fkßúI242fkfrxÑrpWneUQ;rpy;puncture vineHedysarum uniflorum

Tribulus acanthococcusTribulus terrestris

243fk,a,sney;ypIndian gooseberryCicca emblica

Cicca macrocarpaPhyllanthus emblica

244fk¿ïnre;jhkiuIndian lotusNelumbium album

Nelumbium asiaticumNelumbo nucifera

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

61A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

245ma;amdv.ïgw;glhfk;Two-flowered Oldenlandia Gerontogea corymbosa

Hedyotis bifloraOldenlandia corymbosa

246m;ÕssappanwoodCaesalpinia angustifolia

Caesalpinia sapang

gjk;fk;Caesalpinia sappan

247mUqreWild ManarineAtalantia missionis

Chilocalyx ellipticaPamburus missionis

248mßmamqJtiuPigeon pea,Cajanum thora

Cajanus bicolorCajanus cajan

249mrEIlphalsaGrewia asiatica

250mf,d,aghjpupMessenger of SpringBignonia chelonoides

Bignonia gratisStereospermum suaveolens

251meÕsßudkarpj;jpundy;yhCitronella GrassAndropogon citrosus

Andropogon confertiflorusCymbopogon nardus

252ms,mTupPurple TephrosiaCracca purpurea

Galega purpureaTephrosia purpurea

253mS;lfrdaik254mqmq,Fg;gpsha;Cacalia zeylanica

Eupatorium zeylanicumVernonia zeylanica

255mq,s,South Indian FigFicus caulobotrya

Ficus infectoria

fy;My;Ficus tsjahela

256mqjlafKFAreca-nutAreca catechu

Areca catechuAreca catechu

257mqiaje,aahidf;nfhopQ;rpSea-beanAdenanthera gogo Blanco

Entada cirrhosaEntada pusaetha

258mqyq,aePw;Wg;Grdpash-pumpkinBenincasa cerifera

Benincasa cylindricaBenincasa hispida

259fmfk,Balloon VineCardiospermum acuminatum

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202462A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Klf;fj;jhd;Cardiospermum corycodesCardiospermum halicacabum

260fmreïldhïngUq;fhak;assa-foetidaFerula assa-foetida

261fmarnfha;ahGuavaGuajava pumila

262fmd,aNjq;fha;coconutCocos nucifera

263fmd,am,dNjq;fha;G{fPiumountain knotgrassAchyranthes lanata

Achyranthes lanataAerva lanata

264m%idr‚Kjpahu; $e;jy;skunkvineApocynum foetidum

Gentiana scandensPaederia foetida

265m%shx.=fhl;Lf;Fkpo;Beauty berryCallicarpa macrophylla

266nínq,fUNty;Egyptian Thorn Babul treeAcacia arabica

Acacia niloticaAcacia nilotica

267n%dyañgpukpwater hyssopBacopa monnieri

268ngReed bambooBambusa stridula Moon

,Us;Beesha stridula MunroOchlandra stridula

269ndl=Ñfhu;Nghf muprpPurple FleabanePsoralea corylifolia

270nodñthJikThe almondPrunus amygdalus Baill

271neú,gok;ghrpcommon wireweedSida resamosa

Sida arrudianaSida acuta

272ìxW!re273ìxfldfydUepyNtk;GGround bitterEbermaiera pulchella

Melia pumila MoonMunronia pinnata

274ìx;,aepyg;gidgolden eye-grassCurculigo brevifolia

Curculigo densaCurculigo orchioides

275ìxkq.eQ;rWg;ghd;Indian-IpecacuanhaTylophora indica

276nqre,a,Bandicoot Berry Common Tree-VineAquilicia ottilis

Aquilicia sambucinaLeea indica

277nq,;antw;wpiyBetelPiper betle

278nq¿jhd;wpBedda nut treeBuceras bellirica

Myrobalanus bellirica

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

63A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

Terminalia bellirica

279fn,stpy;tk;baelAegle marmelos

Belou marmelosAegle marmelos

280fíokï281fnda,MyrrhCommiphora myrrha

282uoáhMidf;Fz;LkzpRed Bead TreeAdenanthera gersenii

Adenanthera politaAdenanthera pavonina

283uoklduPortwine MagnoliaLiriopsis fuscata

Magnolia annonifoliaMagnolia fuscata

284f.dgqfld<ty;yhiuAsiatic pennywortCentella asiatica

Centella boninensisCentella asiatica

285uÿre;,dJsrpholy basilGeniosporum tenuiflorum

Lumnitzera tenuifloraOcimum tenuiflorum

286u,s;Fire Flame BushAcistoma coccineum

Grislea punctataWoodfordia fruticosa

287uhs,Mj;jpthe bidi leaf treeBauhinia parviflora

Bauhinia racemosaBuhinia racemosa

288uianeoaorpWFwpQ;rhAustralian cowplantGymnema sylvestre

289uiajekakDragon's Scale FernDrymoglossum heterophyllum

290uikaCommon jujubePaliurus mairei

,ye;ijRhamnus jujuba

291uyÿrengUQ;rPufk;common fennelFoeniculum vulgare

292uyßthifEast Indian walnutAlbizia lebbeck

293udoxehty;Java Plum,Syzygium cumini

294udilald295udfk,aMk;gy;blue lotusNymphaea nouchali

296uevyÕ=‍cj;jkhfhzpthe trellis-vinePergularia daemia

297ñxÑGjpdhmintMentha piperita

298ñÈRemna latifolia

299uqoaoriam,ïjpuhl;irCommon grape vineVitis vinifera

300ó.ia,Yg;igbutter treeMadhuca longifolia

301uqx weggaWgreen gramVigna radiata

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202464A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

302uqxjekak303uql=Kqjekaknghd;dhq;fhzpsessile joyweedAlternanthera sessilis

304uqvuyKnfhl;ilf;fue;ijEast Indian globe thistleSphaeranthus indicus

305uqrdudxis306uqrex.dKUq;ifdrumstick treeMoringa oleifera

307uqrejdngUq;FwpQ;rhRajmahal HempMarsdenia tenacissima

308uqjlSßh309uQku,akfpo;bullet woodMimusops elengi

310fudKrl=vqïìhnea;r;rpl;bLittle Iron WeedVernonia cinerea

311fudrnrk;Gtk;dragon's eyeDimocarpus longan

312hlafíßhfpYfpYg;igthe blue rattlepodCrotalaria verrucosa

313hljkiaiuzNgupChristmas candlestickLeonotis nepetiifolia

314hlskdrxNga;FUe;JCeylon AtalantiaAtalantia ceylanica

315hjthw;NfhJikBarleyHordeum vulgare

316hjdifhQ;NrhupcamelthornAlhagi Camelorum

317OkajhdiJyfehupVirgin's MantleFagonia cretica

318rg b¢NguPe;jDate PalmPhoenix dactylifera

319rgf;dartz;Lnfhy;ypcandle bushCassia alata

320rKjrdMthiuTanner's CassiaCassia auriculata

321r;alsysßhRed CutchAcacia chundra

322r;aksgq,anrq;nfhbNtypScarlett LeadwortPlumbago indica

323r;au,ascarlet jungle flameIxora coccinea

324r;ay÷kanrQ;re;jdk;red sandalwoodPterocarpus santalinus

325r;=Ækqntq;fhak;Red OnionAllium cepa

326rkalsßf.dlgqgpukjz;LMexican poppyArgemone mexicana

327¨‍k¨‍328ú,a¨‍kq329j,arils|Zanonia indica

330rUqlanrq;fUk;Ghardy sugar caneSaccharum arundinaceum

331rïuksiaieha;NtisAsian spiderflowerCleome viscosa

332rils|rPe;jpy;heart-leaved moonseedTinospora cordifolia

333rdcudIjl;ilg;gaWblack-eye peaVigna unguiculata

334relaw.=KmopQ;rpy;sage-leaved alangiumAlangium salviifolium

335relaw;a;kVopiyg;ghiyIndian PulaiAlstonia scholaris

336relau,a ^m%shxÕ=‍&Malaboda treeHorsfieldia iryaghedhi

337reoka;skupf;nfhOe;JRosin weedCressa cretica

338reoka;slRosin weedCressa cretica.

339rEuia;ys

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

65A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

340frdaieglantine roseRosa Rubiginosa.

341frdays;lNuhrhPithraj TreeAphanamixis polystachya

342kshÕ,dfhu;j;jpifg;GClimbing LilyGloriosa superba

343¨‍KqjrKkhtpyq;FGarlic Pear TreeCrateva adansonii

344¨‍Kqú,gpukpwater hyssopBacopa monnieri

345f,d;ants;spNyhj;jpuk;LodhtreeSymplocos racemosa

346f,da¨‍eWtpypSnot berryCordia monoica

347j.mq,a ^lig&palm grassMolineria capitulate

348jÉpkdútw;rehgpAconiteAconitum ferox

349jolytrk;Gsweet flagAcorus calamus

350j÷reuEGidf;fhypmonkey tamarindMucuna pruriens

351jrdvUf;Fcrown flowerCalotropis gigantea

352j,a wifudao.ïmrNkhjfk;Wild ParselyPimpinella heyneana

353j,a bÕ=‍re,Q;rpCylindric Wild GingerZingiber cylindricum

354j,aÆkqeupntq;fhak;Sea DaffodilPancratium zeylanicum

355j,Õid,atha;tplq;fk;false black pepperEmbelia ribs

356jidjdisrhjpf;fha;maceMyristica fragrans

357j,ajrld358jrdyslkaots;sppurple yamDioscorea alata

359jd,afud<Õ=‍360úIaKql%dka;shtp];Zfpuhe;jpdwarf morning-gloryEvolvulus alsinoides

361jegflajhioscrew pinePandanus tectorius

362je,a;síngqJhJtisPurple fruited pea egg plantSolanum trilobatum

363je,auogkQ;rpl;bIndian madderRubia cordifolia

364je,añed;dhupBlack SugarGlycerrhiza glabra

365fj,a,ka.sßhClimbing AtalantiaParamignya monophylla

366fõ,dey;yNtisAfrican cabbageCleome gynandra

367fõje,atQ;rpcommon rattanCalamus rotang

368jDlaIdï,nfhuf;fha;GspCeylon mangosteenGarcinia zeylanica

369‍jDlaIdo;s370jDoaOodrerKj;jpug;ghiyElephant creeperArgyreia speciosa

371jDoaê372Yd,m¾‚Gs;sbsalparniDesmodium gangeticum

373ilau,atp];Zfpuhe;jpRoundleaf Bindweed.Evolvulus nummularius

374i;l=mamdillAnethum graveolens

375i,antz;Fq;fpypak;Sal treeShorea robusta

376imai|ML jPz;lhg;ghiyThe Indian BirthwortAristolochia indica

377idÈlaldrhjpf;fha;nutmegMyristica fragrans

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202466A

wxl/ No./ ,y

isxy, ku/ Sinhala name/ rpq;fsg;ngau;

fou< ku/ Tamil name / jkpo;g;ngau;bx.%Sis ku/ English name / Mq;fpyg;ngau;úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific name /mwptpaw;ngau;

378idrK%f;fpul;ilspreading hogweedBoerhavia diffusa

379id,ïnq380iejekaordntl;bNtu;vetiverVetiveria zizanioides

381iskafldakdrpq;NfhdhCinchonaCinchona officinalis

382ishU,dGspTamarind treeTamarindus indica

383isßf;alal=rpWNjf;FBlue-flowered Glory TreeClerodendrum serratum

384isß,385isßjgq386isúhCubebPiper chavya

387iqÿÿreew;rPufk;CuminCuminum cyminum

388iqÿÆkqcs;spGarlicAllium sativum

389iqÿy÷kantz;re;jdk;white sandalwoodSantalum ellipticum

Santalum myrtifoliumSantalum album

390fixfldÜgxNruhq;nfhl;ilmarking nutSemecarpus anacardium

391fifkfyfld<epythifTinnevelly SennaCassia senna

392fiamd,sldgtsky;ypifNight Blooming JasmineNyctanthes arbor-tristis

393ykrzy;brown hemp,Crotalaria juncea

394ymQIdcommon junipeJuniperus communis

395ynr,upright elephant ears,Alocasia macrorrhizos

396yrxlyGyhd; fpoq;Fwhite turmericCurcuma zedoaria

397yf¾kqlLurid Himalayan MonkshoodAconitum novoluridum

398y,aFq;fpypak;Vateria copallifera

399yd;djdßhrhj;jhthupSpiny AsparagusAsparagus racemosus

400yslaxjpIndian ash treeLannea coromandelica

401ysÕ=‍remgje,aIncha Palinja Soap barkAcacia caesia

402ysÕ=‍remsh,sSpiked ginger lilyHedychium spicatum

403ySx ksÈl=ïndReinwardt's Tree PlantBiophytum reinwardtii

404yS/iaigpuz;ilveldt grapeCissus quadrangularis

405fyd~,jhdpf;fPiuHondalaAdenia hondala

406fydrDipterocarpus zeylanicus

407moauldIagHimalayan wild cherry.Prunus cerasoides

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

67A

Lksc T!IO ,ehsia;=j/ List of Mineral Medicines /fdpk kUe;Jfspd; gl;bay;

wxl/ No./ ,y.isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / rpq;fsg; ngau;

1w÷kaleg

2wïnr

3w¿yqKq

4l¿ Bhï

5l¿ ueá

6liSia

7ldka;mdIdK

8lsß.re~

9lsßueá

10L¾mqr

11.,a wÕ=‍re

12.,a kyr

13.,a uo

14f.kao.ï

15f.dfïo

16f.!ÍmdIdKï

17pkaøldka;

18pm,

19;U

20;,d;=ñksrka

21Èhuka;s

22fodarje,s

23kjidrï

24kS,ud‚lH

25m,audkslalï

26m,sÕ=‍

27mqialr

28mqIamrd.

29fmafrdacl

30n<,a¨‍Kq

31ufkdaiS,

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202468A

wxl/ No./ ,y.isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / rpq;fsg; ngau;

32ud‚lH ^r;=leg&

33ueá

34uqyqÿ ¨‍Kq

35uDoaodrYDx.

36hlv

37hfndr

38hjlr ¨‍Kq

39r;arka

40rgyqKq

41riÈh

42rdcdj¾;

43ß§

44ß§;=;a:

45frdaul ¨‍Kq

46f,dalv

47je,s

48úu,

49úhkaÿUq¨‍

50ùÿreje,s

51fjä¨‍Kq

52ffjl%dka;

53ffjfrdä

54iú| ¨‍Kq

55ijqlalrï

56idÈ,sx.ï

57isxÿr

58isjx.=re

59iSklaldrï

60iqÿ Bhï

61iqji ¨‍Kq

62iQrHaldka; mdIdK

63iajðlaIdr

64Ys,dc;=

65ysßh,a

66yqKq

Etc.,

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

69A

i;ajc T!IO kdu f,aLkh/ List of Veterinary Medicines / fhy;eil kUe;Jfspd; gl;bay;

wxl/ No./ ,y.isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / rpq;fsg; ngau;

1weál=l=<d

2we;d

3we;a o<

4bÈnqjd

5Wre,E iÜgka

6t<.jhd

7lÕfõKd

8lia;=ß

9lsß

10t<lsß

11t¿lsß

12;klsß

13ólsß

14flacq

15.evú,d

16.sf;,a

17f.dafrdapk

18t<.sf;,a

19;,f.dhd

20Èñhd

21§lsß

22§ fmr,s Èh

23ìïuq,a

24uia

25t¿ uia

26W!re uia

27l=l=¿ ì;a;r

28weál=l=¿ niakh

29l¿lsls,s niakh

30f;da¾ niakh

31ii niakh

32ó bá

33ó .jhd

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202470A

wxl/ No./ ,y.isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / rpq;fsg; ngau;

34ó me‚

35ó ñkakd

36uqjd

37uq;%

38fudKrd

39f.dauq;%

40fudare

41,dlv

42úI

43i¾m úI

44fj~re

45yxihd

46ydjd

47ljä

48mn¿

49uq;=

50uq;=fn,slgq

51uqyqÿ fmK

52ylaEtc.,

Part II

declared Articles, substances and drugs

Articles, substances and drugs include any Siddha, Unani, Deshiya Chikithsa (Traditional) or indigenous medicines, which shall be similar to following articles, drugs and substances used in other countries.

Articles

Any instrument, apparatus, appliance, software material or any other article, whether use single or in combination including the software necessary for its proper application intended by the manufacture using on human beings.

• Medical technologies (WHO Medical device technical series)

• Custom-made devices

• Assistive devices

• Cosmetic devices

• Personal protective equipment

• ICT Products

• IVDs

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

71A

Ayurveda Classification

hka;%

Blunt instruments (Yantras)

Yia;%

Sharp instruments (Sastras)

1' iajiaÓl hka;%

Cruciform instruments (Svastika yantras)24

2' ikaoxY hka;%

Dissecting forceps or tongs (Sandansha yantras) 2

3' ;, hka;%

Spoon shaped instruments (Tala yantras) 2

4' kdä hka;%

Tubular instruments (Nadi yantras) 20

5' Y,dl hka;%

Rod like instruments (Shalaka yantras) 28

1' uKav,d.% Yia;%

Circular knife (Mandalagra sastra)

2' Lrm;% Yia;%

Bone saw (Karapatra)

3' jDoaêm;% Yia;%

Scalpel (Vrddhipatra)

4' jL Yia;%

Nail parer (Nakhasastra)

5' uqøsl Yia;%

Ring knife (Mudrika)

6' W;am,m;% Yia;%

Lancet (Utpalapatra)

7' w¾OOdrd Yia;%

Single edged knife (Ardhadhara)

8' iqÑ Yia;%

Suturing needle (Suci sastra)

9' l=im;% Yia;%

Bistoury (Kusapatra)

10' w;suqL Yia;%

Hawk bill scissors (Atimukha)

11' irdÍuqL Yiq;% (Scissors (Sararimukha)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202472A

hka;%

Blunt instruments (Yantras)

Yia;%

Sharp instruments (Sastras)

12' wka;ruqL Yia;%

curved bistoury (Amataramukha)

13' ;s%l+¾pl Yia;%

Three edged knife (Trikurcaka)

14' l=;dßld Yia;%

Chisel (Kutharika)

15' ù%ySuqL Yia;%

Trocar (Vrihimukha)

16' wrd Yia;%

Awl (Ara)

17' fõ;im;%l Yia;%

Scalpel of different type (Vetasapatraka)

18' n§Y Yia;%

Sharp hook (Badisa)

19' oka;YxL Yia;%

Tooth scaler (Dantasanku)

20' taIŒ Yia;%

Sharp probe (Esani sastra)

Substances and Drugs

■■Raw/ crude drugs

■■Extracts

■■Compound formulations

■■Herbo mineral formulations

■■Kasaya

■■Kvatha

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

73A

■■Asava and Arista

■■Arka / Avaleha / Leha / Paka

■■Kvatha Chuma

■■Guggulu

■■Chuma

■■Granules

■■Ghrita/taila

■■Lavana ksara

■■Lepa

■■Vati and Gutika / Pilla

■■Netra bindu and Anjana

■■Parpati

■■Pisti

■■Mandura

■■Rasayoga

■■Lauha

■■Dhoopa / Dhooma

■■Bhasma

■■Granules

■■Extract powders (Powdered extracts)

■■Syrup / Suspension

■■Fluid extracts

■■Oral emulsions

■■Herbal oils

■■Aromatic waters

■■Ointment / cream / lotion

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202474A

■■Capsule

■■Caplets

■■Tablets

■■Pills

■■Herbal toothpaste

■■Herbal soap

■■Herbal injectable forms

■■herbal cosmeceuticals

■■Herbal inhalers

■■Confectioneries

■■Dusting powder

■■Suppositories/ pessaries

■■lozenges

■■gargles/ mouth wash/ mouth paint

■■medicinal sprays

■■plasters Etc.,

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

75A

Schedule II

Form A

Application for Registration / Renewal of a Manufactory of Ayurveda Article, Substance or Drug

For official use onlyFile No/ Registration No: -Money order/ Receipt No: -Date of issue: -Signature of subject officer: -

First time registration 

Annual registration 

(Put the “” sign in the appropriate box.)

1. Applicants’ details

1.1Name of applicant: -1.2Address: -1.3National Identity card/ Passport / Driving license No: -1.4Profession: -1.5Post at drug manufactory: - 1.6Telephone No: - Fixed: -Mobile: -

1.7Email address: -

2. Details of drug company/ Institution

2.1Name of company/ Institution: -2.2Address: -2.3Telephone number: -2.4Email address: -2.5Business registration certificate number: -

Date of issue: -2.6If registered under Department of ayurveda,

Registration certificate no: -

Date of issue: -2.7Date of establishment of company/Institution: -

3. Details of manufactory (Pharmacy)

3.1Name of manufactory : -3.2Address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202476A

3.3Province: -

District: -

Divisional secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division and No: -3.4Rate No: -3.5Telephone No: - 3.6Email address: -3.7If registered under department of ayurveda,

Registration certificate no: -

Date of issue: -3.8Date of establishment of drug manufactory: -

4. Details of consultant physician

4.1Full name of physician: -4.2Ayurveda medical council registration No: - General/Special

Date of Registration: -Date of renewal: -

4.3Registration Section:-

Number of Special registration (If availa4.4Address: -4.5Telephone no: - Fixed: - Mobile: -4.6Email address: -

5. Details of product

5.1Name of the product according to ayurveda/ Siddha/Unani/Traditional medicines pharmacopeia: -

5.2Trade name of the product: -

5.3Nature of product: -

MedicineDiet and nutritional supplemen-tary productsCosmetic products Devices

5.4Therapeutic indications/uses of product: -

5.5If you have obtained registration for this product under department of ayurveda:

registration number first-time: - Date: -

registration number last -time: - Date: -5.6Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration? (yes/no)

If yes, briefly describe the results (attach a copy of the report/publication)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

77A

6. If the product is a medicine,

6.1If the product is medicine, mention the Name of text/page/recipe no: -

Please mention whether this medicine obtained from Classical texts/ pharmacopeia/Traditional base6.2Is it a new product,

mention the recipe (to be prepared separate document): -

Certificate of legal provision in the relevant country: -6.3Dose and dosage: -

6.4Route of administration: - External applicationOrallyInhalationVasthiNasyaothers

7. If the product is exported, give details

Serial No.category

(Raw Materials/

Medicines/ Packaging material/

Preservatives/ Excipients etc.)

Types of Raw Materials/ Medicines/

Packaging material/

Preservatives/ Excipients) to be exported

Countries expected to export

Name and address of the foreign company

Export Quantity (Kg / Unit) last year

Expected export quantity for next year (Kg / units)

8. Details of imported material used in the preparation of production (If available)

8.1Whether imported materials are used in the preparation of medicine?Yes/No

8.2If yes, Name of institution issued license for importation of materials

8.3

License No: -

Date: -

8.4Country of import

8.5Name of the raw material manufacturer in relevant country

8.6Address

8.7List of imported raw materials (relevant documents to be submitted)

8.8Has any processed products been imported to be used as a raw material in the product?

Yes/No

8.9

If yes, name / names of processed products imported as raw materials

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202478A

8.10Has separate approval obtained from Department of Ayurveda to import such product?

Yes/No

8.11

If yes, the referral letter number

Date: -

9. Details whether raw materials included in this product are restricted by the rules and regulations imposed in Sri Lanka:

Serial

No.

Type of ingredients restricted by law

District and

Divisional Secretariat where the relevant raw materials are procured

Address of the place of procurement of the relevant raw materials

License number and date of approval for the use of the relevant ingredients

Quantity of raw materials used in above product last year (Kg / Unit)

Quantity expected to be procured in next year (Kg / Unit)

10. Details of preservatives / excipients of the product (If available):

Serial No.Type of preservatives/excipients contained in the product

Quantity and percentage per unit to be used for the above product

Amount of material used last year for the above product (Kg / Unit)

Amount expected to be procured in next year (Kg / Unit)

11.Certificate of Consultant Physician

I, …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(Name) holder of National Identity card No………………………………………of …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(address) the consultant Ayurvedic medical practitioner of the above named institution/ayurvedic drug manufacturing company hereby certify that I abide by the Registered Ayurvedic Medical Practitioners Rules No. 1 of 2014 made under the Ayurvedic Act No .31 of 1961 and that I am legally responsible for standard of the products and in connection therewith manufactured under my supervision and that I will provide my services full time and that I will be held responsible and will be responsible personally for the correctness of all information disclosed under No. 4 hereto

Signature of ayurveda practitioner: - Date: -

Official Seal

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

79A

12. Declaration of Applicant: -

I hereby certify that the information given in the application is true and correct. I am personally responsible and liable for the accuracy of all information furnished herein.

Signature of applicant: - Date: -

Official Seal

Official use only

Money Order No: -

Receipt No: -

Document submitted date: -

Note :Complete / Incomplete / Forged document / Complaints 

Name and signature of person received: -

Note: Completed check-list, document containing all necessary details and product samples, equivalent to market release samples as required, should be handed over along with this application by the consulting Ayurvedic practitioner to the technical division of the Department of ayurveda on specified dates.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202480A

Form C

Application for Import and Export Registration / Renewal

Ayurveda Products, Ingredients, Packing Material, Preservatives, Excipients

For official use onlyDocument No: -Receipt No: -Date of issue: -Signature of subject Officer: -

First time registration  Import  Business Registration for Import/ Export 

Annual registration  Export  Product/ article/ substance/ drug 

1. Details of applicant

1.1Name of applicant: -1.2Address: -1.3NIC No/Passport No/Driving License No: - 1.4Profession: -1.5Post of applicant within relevent institution/Bussiness: -1.6Telephone No: - Fixed: - Mobile: -

1.7Email address: -

2. Details of consultant physician

2.1Full name of physician: -2.2Ayurveda medical council registration no: - General  Special 

Date of Registration: -Date of renewal: -

2.3Section of special registration: -2.4Personal address: -

2.5Telephone no: - Fixed: - Mobile: -2.6Email address: -

3. Import/Export details

(If certified copies are attached, mark “” in the relevant box)

3.1Nature of the Import/Export business A sole proprietorship

A joint venture

A company







I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

81A

3.2Type of goods expected to be imported Ayurveda products

Raw Material

Packaging

Preservatives

Excipients









3.3Type of goods expected to be exported Ayurveda products

Raw Material

Packaging

Preservatives

Excipients









3.4Have you obtained approval from the Import and Export Control Department for the import/export of the above goods?

Yes/No

3.5Have you obtained approval from Export Development Board approved for exporting the above goods?

Yes/No

3.6Have you obtained a Tax Identification No issued by the Inland Revenue Department?Yes/No3.7Have the above goods been registered with the Sri Lanka Customs for import/export?Yes/No3.8Has approval been obtained from Department of Ayurveda for import/export of the above goods?

Yes/No

3.9Sample Import Permit No. issued by Department of Ayurveda:

Date of issue:

4. Details of the company/ business

4.1Name of Company/Business: -

4.2Address: -

4.3Telephone No: -

4.4Email address: -

4.5Number of Company/Business Registration Cer-tificate: -

Date of issue: -

4.6Department of Ayurveda Registration Certificate No: -

Date of issue: -

4.7Date of establishment of Company/Business

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202482A

5. Details of the goods to be imported

Serial No.category

(Raw Materials/ Ayurveda products/

Packaging/ Preservatives/ excipients etc.)

Types of raw materials/ Ayurveda products / packaging/ preservatives/ excipients expected to be imported

Country expected to be import

Name and address of foreign company

Quantity of imports during last year (Kg / Unit)

Expected Quantity of imports next year (Kg / Unit)

6. Details of the goods to be exported

Serial No.category

(Raw Materials/ Ayurveda products / Packaging/ Preservatives/ excipients etc.)

Types of raw materials/ Ayurveda products / packaging/ preservatives/ excipients expected to be imported

Country expected to be export

Name and address of foreign company

Quantity of exports during last year (Kg / Unit)

Expected Quantity of imports next year (Kg / Unit

7. Certified copies of attachments

(If certified copies are attached put “” mark in the relevant column)

7.1Photocopy of the document approved by the Import and Export Control Department for import/export of the above goods

7.2Photocopy of the document approved by the Export Development Board for export of the above category/categories

7.3Photocopy of the document obtaining a Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

7.4Photocopy of the document registered with Sri Lanka Customs for import/export of the above goods

7.5Photo copy of the said document if prior approval has been obtained from the Department of Ayurveda for import/export of the above goods

7.6Detailed quality assurance report of imported goods

7.7Certificate of origin of the imported product

7.8Photocopy of Foreign Sales Agreement

7.9Photocopy of Company/Business Registration Certificate of the Foreign Company/ Business

7.10Photocopy of Sample Import Permit issued by Department of Ayurveda

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

83A

8. Declaration of applicant: -

I hereby certify that all information presented herein is true and correct and I am personally responsible and liable for the accuracy of said information.

Signature of applicant: - Date: -

Official seal of company

Official use only

Money Order No.: -

Receipt No.: -

Document submitted date: -

Note: Complete / Incomplete  / Forged document  / Complaints 

Name and signature of person received: -

Note: Completed check-list, document containing all necessary details and product samples, equivalent to market release samples as required, should be handed over along with this application by the consulting Ayurvedic practitioner to the technical division of the Department of ayurveda on specified dates.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202484A

Form D

APPLICATION FOR LICENCE TO IMPORT AN AYURVEDA PRODUCT/ RAW MATERIAL/ PACKING MATERIAL/ PRESERVATIVE/ EXCIPIENT AS SAMPLES FOR TEST/ EXAMINATION/ ANALYSIS/ CLINICAL TRIAL/ DISTRIBUTION AS PHYSICIAN’S SAMPLES

For official use onlyDocument No: -Receipt No: -Date of issue: -Signature of subject Officer: -

I/ We …………………………………………..……………………………………………………………………............…. of ……………………………………………………………… hereby apply for a licence to import from ……………………………………………………………………………………….. the Ayurveda product/ Raw material/ Packing material/ Preservative/ Excipient specified below as samples for the test/ examination/ analysis/ clinical trial/ distribution as physician’s samples.

1. Details of applicant

1.1Name of applicant: -1.2Address: -1.3NIC No/Passport No/Driving License No: - 1.4Profession: -1.5Post of applicant within relevent institution/Bussiness: -1.6Telephone No: - Fixed: - Mobile: -

1.7Email address: -

2. Details of consultant physician

2.1Full name of physician: -2.2Ayurveda medical council registration no: - General  Special 

Date of Registration: -Date of renewal: -

2.3Section of special registration: -2.4Personal address: -

2.5Telephone no: - Fixed: - Mobile: -2.6Email address: -

3. Import details

(If certified copies are attached, mark “” in the relevant box)

3.1Nature of the Import business A sole proprietorship

A joint venture

A company







I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

85A

3.2Type of goods expected to be imported Ayurveda products

Raw Material

Packaging

Preservatives

Excipients









3.3Have you obtained approval from the Import and Export Control Department for the import/export of the above goods?

Yes/No

3.4Have the above goods been registered with the Sri Lanka Customs for import/export?Yes/No

4. Details of the company/ business

4.1Name of Company/Business: -

4.2Address: -

4.3Telephone No: -

4.4Email address: -

4.5Number of Company/Business Registration Cer-tificate: -

Date of issue: -

4.6Department of Ayurveda Registration Certificate No: -

Date of issue: -

4.7Date of establishment of Company/Business

5. Details of the goods to be imported

5.1Name of Company/Business: -

5.2Address: -

5.3Telephone No: -

5.4Email address: -

5.5category

(Raw Material/ Ayurveda product/ Packaging/ Preservative/ excipient etc.)5.6Types of raw material/ Ayurveda product / pack-ing material/ preservative/ excipient expected to be imported5.7Generic name of the material/ product

5.8Brand name (if any):

5.9Dosage form and Strength

5.10Quantity:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202486A

6. Certified copies of attachments

(If certified copies are attached put “” mark in the relevant column)

6.1Photocopy of the document approved by the Import and Export Control Department for import/export of the above goods

6.2Photocopy of the document registered with Sri Lanka Customs for import/export of the above goods

6.3Photo copy of the said document if prior approval has been obtained from the Department of Ayurveda for import of the above goods

7. Declaration of applicant: -

I hereby certify that all information presented herein is true and correct and I am personally responsible and liable for the

accuracy of said information.

Signature of applicant: - Date: -

Official seal of company

Official use only

Money order no.: -

Receipt no.: -

Document submitted date: -

Note: Complete / Incomplete  / Forged document  / Complaints 

Name and signature of person received: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

87A

Form E

Application for Registration / Renewal of an Ayurvedic Pharmacy

Official use onlyFile No/ Registration No:Money Order/ Receipt No: -Date of Issue: -Signature of Subject Officer: -

First time registration 

Annual registration 

(Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.)

1. Applicants’ details

1.1Name of applicant: -1.2Address: -1.3National Identity card/ Passport / Driving license No: -1.4Profession: -1.5Post at drug manufactory: - 1.6Telephone No Fixed: -Mobile: -

1.7Email address: -

2. Details of the company/institute

(Only if the applicant is registered as drug manufacturer)

2.1Name of Company/Institution: -2.2Address: -2.3Telephone number: - 2.4Email address: -2.5Business registration certificate number: -

Date of issue: -2.6If registered under Department of Ayurveda

Registration certificate No: -

Date of issue: -2.7Date of establishment of Company/Institution: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202488A

3. Details of Ayurveda Pharmacy

3.1Name: -3.2Address: -3.3Province: -

District: -

Divisional Secretariate Division: -

Grama Niladhari Division: -

3.4Rate No.: -

3.5Telephone No.: -

3.6Email address: -

3.7Business registration certificate number :-

Date of issue :-

3.8If registered in the Department of Ayurveda, as a Ayurveda pharmacy

Registered certification No. :-

Date of Issue :

3.9Date of establishment of Ayurveda pharmacy:-

4. Details of pharmacist

4.1Full name of the pharmacist: -

4.2Ayurveda medical council registered No: -

Date of registration: -Registration renewal date: -

4.3Personal address of pharmacist: -

4.4Telephone No.: - Fixed: - Mobile: -

4.5Email address: -

5. Details on marketing division

5.1Is this building built as per approved regulations? :- Yes/No

5.2Number of staff: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

89A

6. Details of drugs expected to be sold

(If there are more than one type of medicine, produce an Annexure)

Serial No.CategoryTypes of drugs expected to be soldTrade nameRegistered under Department of Ayurveda?

Quantity of products in previous year

(Kg / unit)

Expected quantity next year

(Kg / unit

7. Certified copies of attachments

(If certified copies are attached, mark  in the box in front of the relevant column)

7.1certified photocopy of pharmacist’s Registration Certificate

7.2certified photocopy of Business Registration Certificate (if available only)

7.3Route map showing the nearest route from the nearest city to the Pharmacy (Google map)

7.4Inspection and Money order receipts for first/annual registration license

8. Certificate of pharmacist:

As the pharmacist of the above-mentioned institution/pharmacy, I, …………………………………………… …………………………………………………………… (Name) holder of National Identity card No ……………………………………… of ………………………………………………………………… ………………………………………(address) I hereby act in accordance with the criteria of the Ayurvedic Medical Council under the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 and sell under my supervision. That the products received are legally responsible for dispensing standardized medicines to the customer in prescribed dosages in accordance with medical prescriptions and provide full-time service, and the accuracy of all the information presented under No. 4 herein. I hereby certify that I am personally responsible and liable for

Signature: Date:

Official seal:

9. Certificate of the applicant

I hereby certify that the above information is true and correct

Signature: Date:

Official seal:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202490A

10. Certificate of Grama Seva Niladhari

(Must be certified by the Gram Seva Niladhari of the relevant Grama Seva division to which the premises intended to run the pharmacy)

I confirm that the address ................................................ ................................................ ................................................ (must be the address mentioned under No. 3 in the application form) is correct, and that the address is located in................................ ........ ....................................... Divisional Secretariat Division, Bearing Grama Seva Division No........... ..............................................

Signature of Grama Niladhari: Date:

Officer's Name:

Official seal

Sub Signature of Divisional Secretary: Date:

Official seal

Official use only

Money Order No.: -

Receipt No.: -

Document submitted date: -

Note: Complete  ‍/ Incomplete  ‍ / Forged document  ‍ / Complaints  ‍

Name and signature of person received: - Date: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

91A

Form F

Application for Approval to Register/ Renewal Storage facilities for Ayurveda Products/

Raw materials/ Packaging materials

Official use onlyFile No/ Registration No: -Money Order/ Receipt No: -Date of Issue: -Signature of subject officer: -

First time registration 

Annual registration 

(Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.)

1. Applicant’s details

1.1Name of applicant: -1.2Address: -1.3National Identity card/ Passport / Driving license No: -1.4Profession: -1.5Applicants position at medicinal store: -1.6Telephone No :- Fixed: -Mobile: -

1.7Email address: -

2. Details of Company/Institution

2.1Name of Company/Institution: -2.2Address: -2.3Telephone number: - 2.4Email address: -2.5Business registration certificate number: -

Date of issue: -2.6If registered under Department of Ayurveda

Registration certificate No: -

Date of issue: -2.7Date of establishment of company/Institution: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202492A

3. Details of medicinal store

3.1Name of store: -3.2Address: -3.3Province: -

District: -

Divisional Secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division: -3.4Rate No: -3.5Telephone No: - 3.6Email address: -3.7If registered under Department of Ayurveda

Registration certificate No: -

Date of issue: -3.8Date of establishment of medicinal store: -3.9Is this building built as per approved regulations? :- Yes/No3.10Number of staff: -

4. Details of Pharmacist

4.1Full name of Pharmacist: -4.2Ayurveda medical council registration No: -

Date of Registration: -Date of renewal: -

4.3Personal address: -4.4Telephone No: - Fixed: - Mobile: -4.5Email address: -

5. Details of store keeper/keepers

(If more than one person, attach the following details of all individuals)

5.1Full name of Store keeper: -5.2Personal address: -5.3National Identity Card/ Passport / Driving License No: -5.4Telephone No: - Fixed: - Mobile: -5.5Email address: -

6. Details regarding storage

SerialNo.category (Raw Materials/ Medicines/ Packaging materials/ Preservatives/ Excipients etc.)

Types of raw materials/ Medicines/packaging materials/ preservatives/ excipients stored

Quantity stored last year (Kg / Unit)Expected quantity to store next year (Kg / Unit)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

93A

7. Details regarding Exportation

Serial No.category (Raw

Materials/ Medicines/ Packaging materials/

Preservatives/ Excipients etc.)

Types of Raw

Materials/ Medicines/ Packaging materials/

Preservatives/ Excipients to be exported

Country expected for exportation

Name and address of the foreign company

Exported Quantity last year (Kg/units)

Expected Export Quantity next year

(Kg/units)

8. Details regarding Importation

Serial No.Category

(Raw Materials/

Medicines/ Packaging materials/

Preservatives/ Excipients etc)

Raw Materials/

Medicines/ Packaging materials/

Preservatives/ Excipients expecting for importation

Country expected for importation

Name and address of the foreign company

Imported Quantity last year (Kg/units)

Expected Import Quantity next year

(Kg/units)

9. Certified copies of attachments

(If certified copies are attached, mark “”in relevant column)

9.1certified photocopy of pharmacist’s Registration Certificate

9.2Building plan of the medicinal store(copy of the plan certified by the local council / city council / municipal council)

9.3certified photocopy of Business Registration Certificate (if available only)

9.4

Route map showing the nearest route from the nearest city to the medicinal store

(Google maps)

9.5Inspection and Money order receipts for first/annual registration license

10. Certificate of pharmacist

As the pharmacist of the above-mentioned institution/medicinal store, I, …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(Name) holder of National Identity card No………………………………………of …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(address) I hereby act in accordance with the criteria of the Ayurvedic Medical Council under the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 and sell under my supervision. That the products received are legally responsible for dispensing standardized medicines to the customer in prescribed dosages in accordance with medical prescriptions and provide full-time service, and the accuracy of all the information presented under No. 4 herein. I hereby certify that I am personally responsible and liable for

Signature: - Date: -

Official seal: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202494A

11. Certificate of applicant

I hereby certify, that the storage facilities are maintained in accordance with all the arrangements recommended by the Department of Ayurveda, that unusable medicines/raw materials/packaging materials are not issued, that they are stored in a separate premises, that all the above storage materials are legally required to be issued to the customer/production, and I am responsible for the accuracy of the above information. I hereby certify that I am personally responsible and liable for.

Signature: - Date: -

Official seal: -

12. Certificate of Grama Niladhari

(Must be certified by the Gram Seva Niladhari of the relevant Grama Seva division to which the premises intended to run the pharmacy)

I confirm that the address ................................................ ................................................ ................................................ (must be the address mentioned under No. 3 in the application form) is correct, and that the address is located in................................ ........ ....................................... Divisional Secretariat Division, Bearing Grama Seva Division No........... ..............................................

Signature of Grama Niladhari: Date:

Officer's Name:

Official seal

Sub Signature of Divisional Secretary: Date:

Official seal

Official use only

Money Order No: -

Receipt No: -

Documents submitted date: -

Note: Complete  ‍/ Incomplete  ‍ / Forged document  ‍ / Complaints  ‍

Name and signature of person received: - Date: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

95A

Form G

Application for Registration/ Renewal for Transport/ Distribution

of Ayurveda Medicines, Ayurveda Products, Raw materials, Packing materials

Official use onlyFile No/ Registration No: -Money Order/ Receipt No: -Date of Issue: -Signature of Subject Officer: -

First time registration 

Annual registration 

(Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.)

1. Details of the applicant

1.1Name of applicant: -1.2Address: -

1.3National Identity Card/ Passport / Driving license No: -1.4Profession: -1.5Post at Drug manufactory/Cultivated land: -1.6Telephone No Fixed:-Mobile:-1.7Email address: -

2. Details of the company/ Institution

2.1Name of company/Institution: -2.2Address: -2.3Telephone number: - 2.4Email address: -2.5Business registration certificate number: -

Date of issue: -2.6If registered in the Department of Ayurveda

Registration certificate No: -

Date of issue: -2.7Date of incorporation of company/Institution: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202496A

3. Details on vehicles expected to be used for transportation purposes

3.1Number of vehicles expected to be used: -3.2Address where the vehicle is located: -3.3Province: -

District: -

Divisional Secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division: -

Of vehicle location3.4Type of vehicleVehicle numberColour

4. Driver’s details

Name of driverDriving license No.Driver’s Personal Address

5. Details on Ayurveda Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials to be transported

Serial No.

Category

(Ayurvedic Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials)

Type of Ayurvedic Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials intended to be transported

Trade name

Quantity transported during the last year (Kg / Unit)

Annual quantity expected to be transported (Kg/Unit)

6. Certified copies of attachments

(If certified copies are attached, mark “” in the box of the relevant column)

6.1Certified Photocopies of revenue license certificates of vehicles

6.2Certified Photocopies of driving license of drivers to be employed

6.3Certified photocopy of business registration certificate

6.4

Certified Copy of Registration Certificate under Department of Ayurveda

(Certificates of registration of drug manufactories/stores/cultivation lands applicable for transporta-tion)

6.5Route map showing the expected routes to carry out transport activities (Google maps)

6.6Inspection and Money order receipts for first / annual registration license

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

97A

7. Declaration of applicant

I hereby certify that the transportation of Ayurveda medicines/raw materials/packaging materials are carried out with the prior approval under the Department of Ayurveda, and that I am personally responsible and liable for the accuracy of all the above details.

Signature: Date:

Official seal:

Official use only

Money order No.: -

Receipt No.: -

Document submitted date: -

Note: Complete  ‍/ Incomplete  ‍ / Forged document  ‍ / Complaints  ‍

Name and signature of person received: - Date: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.202498A

Form H

Application for Registration of Raw Materials that restricted by the rules and regulation

imposed in Sri Lanka, for the Ayurveda Production

Official use onlyFile No./ Registration No: -Money order/ Receipt No.: -Date of issue: -Signature of subject officer: -

First time registration  Name of the raw material

Annual registration  that restricted by

(Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.) the rules and regulation :- …………

1.Details of applicant

1.1Name of applicant: -

1.2Address: -

1.3NIC No./Passport No./Driving License No.: -

1.4Profession: -

1.5Post of applicant at drug manufactory: -

1.6Telephone No.: - Fixed: - Mobile: -

1.7Email address: -

2. Details of the company/ Institution

2.1Name of Institution/Company: -2.2Address: -2.3Telephone No.: -2.4Email: -2.5Number and date of company registration: -

Date of issue: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

99A

2.6If registered under Department of Ayurveda,

Registration certificate Number: -

Date of issue: -2.7Date of establishment of the Institution/Company: -

3. Details of drug manufactory

3.1Name of drug manufactory: -3.2Address of drug manufactory: -3.3Province: -

District: -

Divisional secretariate division: -

Grama Niladhari Division and No: -3.4Rate No.: -3.5Telephone No.: - 3.6Email address: -3.7If registered under Department of Ayurveda,

Registration Certificate Number: -

Date of issue: -3.8Date of establishment of the drug manufactory: -

4. Details of consultant physician

4.1Full name of physician: -

4.2Ayurveda medical council registration No.: - General/special

Date of registration: - Date of renewal: -

4.3Registration section: -

Number of Special registration (If available): -

4.4Address: -

4.5Telephone No: - Fixed: - Mobile: -

4.6Email address: -

5. Details of product

5.1Name of the product according to ayurveda/ Siddha/Unani/Traditional medicines pharmacopeia: -

5.2Trade name of the product: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024100A

5.3Nature of product: -

MedicineDiet and nutritional supplementary products

Cosmetic products Devices

5.4Therapeutic indications/uses of product: -

5.5If you have obtained registration for this product under department of ayurveda:

registration number first-time: - Date: -

registration number last -time: - Date: -5.6Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration? (yes/no)

If yes, briefly describe the results (attach a copy of the report/publication)5.7If the product is medicine, mention the Name of text/page/recipe No: -

Please mention whether this medicine obtained from Classical texts/ pharmacopeia/Traditional base5.8Is it a new product,

mention the recipe (to be prepared separate document): -

Certificate of legal provision in the relevant country: -5.9Dose and dosage: -

5.10Route of administration: - External application

OrallyInhalationVasthiNasyaothers

5.11Required amount of the above raw material per unit :-

6. If the product is exported, give details

Serial No.category

(Raw Materials/

Medicines/ Packaging material/

Preservatives/ Excipients etc.)

Types of Raw

Materials/ Medicines/ Packaging material/

Preservatives/ Excipients) to be exported

Countries expected to export

Name and address of the foreign company

Export Quantity (Kg / Unit) last year

Expected export quantity for next year (Kg / units)

7. Details of imported material used in the preparation of production (If available)

7.1Whether imported materials are used in the preparation of medicine?Yes/No

7.2If yes, Name of institution issued license for importation of materials

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

101A

7.3

License No.: -

Date: -

7.4Country of import

7.5Name of the raw material manufacturer in relevant country

7.6Address

7.7List of imported raw materials (relevant documents to be submitted)

7.8Has any processed products been imported to be used as a raw material in the product?

Yes/No

7.9If yes, name / names of processed products imported as raw materials

7.10Has separate approval obtained from Department of Ayurveda to import such product?

Yes/No

7.11

If yes, the referral letter number

Date: -

8. Details of raw materials that restricted by the rules and regulations imposed in Sri Lanka:

Serial

No.

Type of ingredients restricted by law

District and

Divisional Secretariat where the relevant raw materials are procured

Address of the place of procurement of the relevant raw materials

License number and date of approval for the use of the relevant ingredients

Quantity of raw materials used in above product last year (Kg / Unit)

Quantity expected to be procured in next year (Kg / Unit)

9. Certificate of consultant Physician

I, …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(Name) holder of National Identity Card No………………………………………of …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(address) the consultant Ayurvedic medical practitioner of the above named institution/ayurvedic drug manufacturing company hereby certify that I abide by the Registered Ayurvedic Medical Practitioners Rules No. 1 of 2014 made under the Ayurvedic Act No .31 of 1961 and that I am legally responsible for standard of the products and in connection therewith manufactured under my supervision and that I will provide my services full time and that I will be held responsible and will be responsible personally for the correctness of all information disclosed under No. 4 hereto

Signature of ayurveda practitioner: - Date: -

Official seal

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024102A

10. Declaration of applicant: -

I hereby certify that the information given in the application is true and correct. I am personally responsible and liable for the accuracy of all information furnished herein.

Signature of applicant: - Date: -

Official seal

Official use only

Money order No.: -

Receipt No.: -

Document submitted date: -

Note :Complete  /Incomplete  / Forged document  / Complaints 

Name and signature of person received: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

103A

Form I

Application for Cultivation, manufacture of Ayurveda products, storage, distribution, sale, transportation and exportation of Medicinal cannabis

For Official use onlyFile No./ Registration No.: -

Money order/ Receipt No.: -

Date of issue: -

Signature of subject officer: -

Nature of Business

Local Organization  Foreign Organization 

A joint venture  A sole proprietary 

Obtaining a temporary license Obtaining a permanent license

Cultivate  Cultivate 

Manufacture  Manufacture 

Export  Export 

Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.)

1. Details of the applicant

1.1Name of applicant: -

1.2Address: -

1.3National Identity card/ Passport / Driving license No: -

1.4Profession: -

1.5Telephone No.: - Fixed

Mobile1.6Email address: -

2. Details of the manufacturing company/business

2.1 Name of company /business

2.2Address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024104A

2.3Telephone No.: -

2.4Email address: -

2.5company/business registration certificate No.: -

Date of Issue: -2.6If registered under Department of ayurveda

Registration certificate No.: -

Date of issue: -2.7Date of establishment of company/Business: -

2.8Applicant’s position in the company/Business: -

3. Details of Board of Directors/Partners/Members

(Details of all members/partners should be submitted)

Serial No.

Designation in companyFull name of officer/board memberNational Identity Card NumberSpecimen Signature

Annexures relating to Nos. 1, 2, 3

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01certified photocopy of Business/Company Registration Certificate

02certified photocopy of Registration certificate

(If registered under Department of Ayurveda)

03Photocopies of National Identity Card/Passport of Applicant/Board of Directors/ Members/Partners (mention number of attachments)

04Bank statements of Near 3 months of local/foreign bank accounts to verify financial capability05Certificate of bank balance of approximately near 3 months in local/foreign bank accounts

06Document authorized to sign on behalf of the company

07Affidavit confirming authorization to sign on behalf of the company

08If the relevant entity is a company, the report containing the authorized board of directors’ decision to submit the EOI (Board Resolution)

09In case of Sole Proprietorship/Partnership, Affidavit confirming the nature of the business and personal details.

10Cash Receipt of Non-Refundable Deposit Fee Credited to bank account of Department of Ayurveda

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

105A

4. Details of Consultant Physician

4.1Full name of consultant physician: -

4.2If registered under Department of ayurveda

Registration certificate No.: -

Date of issue: -

Date of Renewal: -

Special  General 

4.3Section of special registration: -

4.4Personal address: -

4.5Telephone No.: - Fixed

Mobile4.6Email address: -

5. Details of pharmacist

5.1Full name of pharmacist: -

5.2Ayurveda Medical Council Registration no: -

Date of issue: -

Date of Renewal: - 5.3Personal address: -

5.4Telephone No.: - Fixed

Mobile5.5Email address: -

Annexures relating to Nos. 4,5

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Certified copy of consultant physician’s Ayurveda Medical council registration certificate

02Certified copy of pharmacist’s Ayurveda Medical council registration certificate

6. Details on cultivation

(In case of more than one land, annexures should be submitted for each cultivation land in this format)

6.1Name of the company/business/individual who acquired the ownership of the cultivation land6.2Address: -

6.3Telephone No.: -

6.4Email address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024106A

6.5Area under primary cultivation Acres

Area under secondary cultivation Acres

Total area of cultivation Acres

Used for cultivation6.6How the land is surroundedA border wall 

Mesh covers/Cover fencing 6.7Province: -

District: -

Divisional secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division and No.: -

Of cultivation land6.8Nature of ownership of the applicant party in respect of the cultivated land6.9Rate No.: -

6.10Date of commencement of cultivation land

6.11Name of Agriculture instructor supervising primary cultivation

Professional qualification (Mention the degree/s)

Personnel Address

National Identity card/ Passport / Driving license No: - Telephone No.: - Fixed: -

Mobile: -

Email address: -6.12Name of Agriculture instructor supervising secondary cultivation

Professional qualification (Mention the degree/s)

Personnel Address

National Identity card/ Passport / Driving license No: - Telephone No.: - Fixed: -

Mobile: -

Email address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

107A

6.13License number obtained from the Central Environment Authority for maintaining a cultivation land: -

Date of issue: -6.14If registered under Department of ayurveda,

Registration certificate no: -

Date of issue: -6.15Are the proper protective measures recommended by Department of Ayurveda being followed?

Yes 

No 

Annexures relating to No. 4

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Copies of documents proving the ownership of the cultivated land

02

Photocopies of National Identity Card/Passport of cultivation supervising agriculture

instructors

(Mention number of attachments)

03Copy of certificate proving qualifications of primary cultivation supervising agriculture instructor

04Copy of certificate proving qualifications of secondary cultivation supervising agriculture instructor05Detailed report on the safety measures used for the cultivated land

The following annexures must be submitted before granting the permanent license

06Photocopy of license obtained from Central Environment Authority

07Photocopy of Medicinal Cultivation Registration Certificate of Department of Ayurveda

08Police Report of the Police Officer in Charge of the Police area to which the Cultivated Land belongs

09Observation report with the counter sign of the divisional secretariate and signature of Grama niladhari which the Cultivated Land belongs.

7. Details of drug manufactory

7.1Name of drug manufactory: -

7.2Address: -

7.3Telephone No: -

7.4Email address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024108A

7.5Province: -

District: -

Divisional secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division and No.: -

Of drug manufactory7.6Applicants’ nature of right regarding the drug manufactory and manufacturing land7.7Area of land owned by the drug manufactory

7.8How the land is surrounded A border wall 

Fence with mesh cover  7.9Rate No.: -

7.10If registered under department of ayurveda,

Registration certificate No: -

Date of issue: -7.11Date of establishment of drug manufactory: -

7.12Full name of consultant physician: -

Personal address: -

National Identity card/ Passport No: -

Ayurveda medical council registration No. and Date: -

Section of special registration: -

Last Renewal Date: -

Telephone No.: - Fixed

Mobile

Email address: -

General  Special 

7.13Name of supervising technical officer

Personal address: -

National Identity card/ Passport No: -

Telephone No.: - Fixed

Mobile

Email address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

109A

7.14License No obtained from Central Environment Authority

Date of issue: -7.15Is this drug manufactory built as per recommended safety regulations approved by Department of Ayurveda?

Yes 

No 

Appendix relating to No. 7

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Certified copy of Ayurveda Product Registration Certificate under Department of Ayurveda

02Certified copies of documents proving ownership of drug manufactory

03Copy of Ayurveda medical council registration certificate of the physician supervising the drug manufactory.

04Copy of certificate proving qualification of technical officer supervising the drug manufactory.

05

Photocopies of National Identity Card/Passport of technical officer supervising the drug manufactory.

(Mention number of attachments)06Detailed report on the safety measures used for the drug manufactory.

The following annexures must be submitted before granting the permanent license

07Certified copy of license obtained from Central Environment Authority

08Police Report of the Police Officer in Charge of the Police area to which the drug manu-factory belongs.

09Observation report with the counter sign of the divisional secretariate and signature of Grama niladhari which the drug manufactory belongs.

8. Details of Product

(Products here indicates “Ayurvedic medicines and other cannabis related products”, In case of more than one product, annexures should be submitted for each product in this format)

8.1Category of productMedicine 

Diet and nutritional 

supplementary

Cosmetic products 

Devices 

Other ..........................................8.2Trade name of the product

8.3Text book name of the product

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024110A

8.4Name of text, page, recipe No.

(Please mention whether this product is obtained from Classical texts/ pharmacopeia/Traditional base)8.5Therapeutic indications/uses of productFor Therapeutic purpose 

For rejuvenation purpose 

For Cosmeceutical purpose 

Other ..........................................8.6Dose and dosage

8.7Route of administration Orally 

External application 

Inhalation 

Vasti 

Nasya 

Other ..........................................8.8If you have obtained registration for this prod-uct under department of ayurveda before:

Registration number first-time: - Date: -

Registration number last -time: - Date: - 8.9Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration?

Yes 

No 8.10If yes, briefly describe the results

9. Summary report on products

Serial No.CategoryText book name of the product

Trade name

Mode of approvalQuantity of products in previous year (Kg / unit)

Expected quantity per next year (Kg / unit)

Pharmacopeia

If approved from TCAM, medicine name, number and date

Ayurveda

Siddha

Unani

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

111A

10. Summary report on above product/products containing cannabis species, all subspecies and other ingredients restricted by the rules and regulations imposed in Sri Lanka.

Serial NoChemical/Scientific Name of Ingredient Restricted by Law

District and

Divisional Secretariat where the relevant raw materials are procured

Address of the place of procurement of the relevant raw materials

License number and date of approval for the use of the relevant ingredients

Quantity of raw materials used in above product last year (Kg / Unit)

Quantity expected to be procured in next year (Kg / Unit)

Annexures relating to Nos. 08,09,10

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column))

01If it is a new product, mentioned the recipe

02If it is a new product, certificate of approval obtained by TCAM

03If registered under Department of ayurveda, copy of the valid certificate

04Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration, attach a copy of the report/publication

11. Details of imported raw materials/packaging/preservatives/excipients used in the manufacturing process of related product

(In case of more than one raw material/packaging/preservatives/excipient, annexures should be submitted for each production in this format. If applicable Only)

11.1Have any Imported raw materials/packaging/preservatives/ex-cipients been used for the respective product?

Yes 

No 11.2Scientific/Textbook name of the any processed product if it is imported to be used as an ingredient in respective product.11.3Nature of raw material

11.4Scientific/Chemical name of raw material

11.5Raw material Common 

Rare 

Endemic  Threatened with extinction  11.6Are there regulations or ordinances related to the ingredient?

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024112A

11.7Mode of import/export of raw materials Raw 

Dry 

Extract 

Other............................................. 11.8Scientific/Chemical Name of Packaging material/preservative/excipient11.9Trade Name of Packaging material/

preservative/excipient11.10The expected quantity to be imported in a year (Kg/unit)

12. Summary report related to import goods

Serial No.category

(Raw Materials/ Ayurveda products/

Packaging/ Preservatives/ excipients etc.)

Types of raw materials/ Ayurveda products / packaging/ preservatives/ excipients expected to be imported

Country expected to be import

Name and address of foreign company

Quantity of imports during last year (Kg / Unit)

Expected Quantity of imports next year (Kg / Unit)

Annexures relating to Nos. 11,12

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Registration certificate issued by Department of Ayurveda for importation of each category

02Copy of letter approved by Ayurveda Drugs and Products Regulatory Council in regarding the product to be imported.03Certified Copy of Sample Import Permit issued by Department of Ayurveda

Following documents should be submitted at each Shipment In order to obtain the import license issued by the Department of Ayurveda for each shipment.04Detailed quality assurance report of imported goods

05Certificate of origin of the imported product

06Approval obtained from Sri Lanka Import and Export Control Department

07Pro-forma Invoice issued by the seller

13. Details of Storage

(In case of more than one storage, annexures should be submitted for each storage in this format)

13.1Name of storage: -

13.2Address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

113A

13.3Telephone No.: -

13.4Email address: -

13.5Province: -

District: -

Divisional secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division: -

Of storage13.6Rate No.: -

13.7Date of establishment of storage: -

13.8Nature of ownership of the applicant party regarding the building and land where the storage is established13.9Area used for storage

(Indicate the square ft amount separately)

Raw material .................. Sq. ft

Products .................. Sq. ft

Packaging .................. Sq. ft

Preservatives .................. Sq. ft

Excipients .................. Sq. ft13.10If registered under Department of ayurveda

Registration certificate No.: -

Date of issue: -13.11Is this storage built as per recommended rules and regula-tions approved by Department of Ayurveda?

Yes 

No 13.12Whether the storage is maintained in accordance with the regulations approved by Department of Ayurveda?

Yes 

No 13.13Are quarantine measures followed to secure stored materi-als within the storage premises?

Yes 

No 

14. Details of Store Keeper/Keepers

(In case of more than one store keeper, annexures should be submitted for each individual in this format)

14.1Full name of store keeper

14.2Personal address

14.3National Identity card/ Passport No/Driving License No: -

14.4Telephone No.: - Fixed

Mobile14.5Email address: -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024114A

15. Details Regarding Storage

Serial

No.

category (Raw Materials/ Medicines/ Packaging materials/ Preservatives/ Excipients etc.)

Types of raw materials/ Medicines/packaging materials/ preservatives/ excipients stored

Quantity stored during last year (Kg / Unit)

Expected quantity expected to store for next year (Kg / Unit)

Annexures relating to Nos. 13,14,15

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Registration certificate obtained from Department of Ayurveda for the storage of each category

02Confirmation document of ownership of the applicant party regarding the building and land where the storage is established

03

License issued by the Department of Ayurveda for the storage of cannabis species, all subspecies and other ingredients or Ayurvedic products containing such ingredients restricted by law in Sri Lanka04Photocopy of license obtained from Central Environment Authority

05Police Report of the Police Officer in Charge of the Police area to which the storage belongs

06Observation report with the counter sign of the divisional secretariate and signature of Grama niladhari which the storage belongs

07Photocopies of store keeper/s National Identity Card/Passport (Mention number of attachments)

16. Details on vehicles expected to be used for transportation purposes

16.1Number of vehicles expected to be used: -

16.2(If multiple locations, give separate details of each location)

Province: -

District: -

Divisional secretariate: -

Grama Niladhari Division: -

Of vehicle location16.4Type of vehicleVehicle numberColorEngine capacity

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

115A

17. Driver’s details

Name of driverDriving license No.Driver’s Personal address

18. Details on Ayurveda Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials to be transported

Serial No.

Category

(Ayurvedic Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials)

Type of Ayurvedic Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials intended to be transported

Trade name

Quantity transported during the last year (Kg / Unit)

Annual quantity expected to be transported (Kg/Unit)

Annexures relating to Nos. 16,17,18

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Registration certificate obtained from Department of Ayurveda for the transportation of each category

02

License issued by the Department of Ayurveda for the storage of cannabis species, all sub-species and other ingredients or Ayurvedic products containing such ingredients restricted by law in Sri Lanka (Permit should be obtained in each case of transport)03Route map showing the expected routes to carry out transport activities

04Certified Photocopies of revenue license certificates of vehicles to be used for transportation of Products/ Medicines / Raw materials / Packaging materials / Preservatives/ Excipients

05

Photocopies of driving license of drivers

(Mention number of attachments)

19. Details related to exportation

(In case of more than one type, annexures should be submitted for each type of goods in this format)

19.1Type of goods expected to be importedproducts 

Raw Material 19.2Nature of the product to be importedMedicine 

Diet and nutritional 

supplementary

Cosmetic products 

Devices 

Other ..........................................

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024116A

19.3Trade name of the product to be exported

19.4Textbook name of the product be exported

19.5Mode of export Raw 

Dry 

Extract 

Other.............................................

20. Summary report of the goods to be exported

Serial No.category

(Raw Materials/ Ayurveda products / Packaging/ Preservatives/ excipients etc.)

Types of raw materials/ Ayurveda products / packaging/ preservatives/ excipients expected to be exported

Country expected to be export

Name and address of foreign company

Quantity of exports during last year (Kg / Unit)

Expected Quantity of imports next year (Kg / Unit

Annexures relating to Nos. 19,20

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01Photocopy of the document approved by the Import and Export Control Department for export of the above good/s

02Photocopy of the document approved by the Export Development Board for export of the above good/s

03Photocopy of the document obtaining a Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

04Photocopy of the document registered with Sri Lanka Customs for export of the above goods

05Photo copy of the said document if prior approval has been obtained from the Department of Ayurveda for export of the above goods

21. Details about the project proposal to be submitted for feasibility study

21.1Name of project proposal

21.2Details in brief

Annexure relating to Nos. 21

(If copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)

01project proposal

02Detail report on the human resources expected to be used in the project

03Affidavit to act in accordance with labor, women and child protection laws

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

117A

Schedule III

Price Schedule

No.ServiceUnitValue

1

Registration of Local Products / Medicines - Normal Process

Registration/Licence feeLKR 15,000.00

Renewal fee - Annually*LKR 5,000.00

Appeal feeLKR 7,500.00

2

Registration of Local Products / Medicines – Expedited Process

Registration/Licence feeLKR 30,000.00

Appeal feeLKR 10,000.00

3

Registration of Imported Products / Medicines/ Local Business - Normal Process

Registration/Licence feeUSD 500

Renewal fee - Annually*USD 150

Appeal feeUSD 200

4

Registration of Imported Products / Medicines/ Local Business – Expedited Process

Sample Licence feeUSD 200

Any change of sample licenceUSD 100

Registration/Licence feeUSD 1,000

Appeal feeUSD 300

5Registration of Export Products / Medicines/ Local Business - Normal Process

Registration fee USD 10

Renewal fee - Annually (each product)*USD 10

6Registration of Export products/medicines / Local Business – Expedited Process

Registration fee USD 20

Renewal fee - Annually (each product)*USD 20

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024118A

No.ServiceUnitValue

7

Registration of Manufacturing premises - (Normal Process)

Registration/Licence feeLKR 50,000.00

Annual registration*LKR 25,000.00

Duplicate certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Drug Stores LKR 15,000.00

Drug Stores - Renewal Annually*LKR 10,000.00

8

Registration of Manufacturing premises - ( Expedited Process)

Registration/Licence feeLKR 100,000.00

Annual registration*LKR 50,000.00

Duplicate certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Drug Stores LKR 30,000.00

Drug Stores - Renewal Annually*LKR 20,000.00

9

Approval for media advertisement - Normal Process

Paper advertisementLKR 40,000.00

Mass media / Social mediaLKR 40,000.00

10

Approval for media advertisement - Expedited Process

Paper advertisementLKR 80,000.00

Mass media / Social mediaLKR 80,000.00

11

Transport Certificate - Normal Process

Registration feeLKR 15,000.00

Duplicate Certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Annual renewal fee*LKR 10,000.00

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

119A

No.ServiceUnitValue

12

Transport Certificate - Expedited Process

Registration feeLKR 30,000.00

Duplicate Certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Annual renewal fee*LKR 20,000.00

13

Drug stores (Store with manufacturing unit excluded) - Normal Process

Registration/Licence feeLKR 25,000.00

Duplicate certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Annual renewal fee*LKR 15,000.00

14

Drug stores (Store with manufacturing unit excluded) - Expedited Process

Registration/Licence feeLKR 50,000.00

Duplicate certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Annual renewal fee*LKR 30,000.00

15

Pharmacy - Normal Process

Registration/Licence fee - RetailLKR 20,000.00

Duplicate certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Annual renewal fee*LKR 10,000.00

16

Pharmacy - Expedited Process

Registration/Licence fee - RetailLKR 40,000.00

Duplicate certificate feeLKR 5,000.00

Annual renewal fee*LKR 20,000.00

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024120A

No.ServiceUnitValue

17

Projects related to Cannabis

Refundable DepositUSD 100,000 Project evaluation feeUSD 1,250

Temporary licence feeUSD 300

Permanent licence feeUSD 200

Renewal fee - Annually - each item*USD 200

Appeal feeUSD 250

Duplicate certificate feeUSD 10

18

Importing raw materials/capsules/packing materials/substance/other product related to Ayurveda value addition

Licence fee - each productLKR 10,000.00

Fee for No Objection letter - each productLKR 5,000.00

Renewal fee Annually - each product.*LKR 2,000.00

* 10% Penalty fee will be charged for each application delayed every month.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

121A

Schedule IV

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdokd.drhla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF AN AYURVEDIC MANUFACTURING CENTER

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo T!IO ksIamdok.drhla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an Ayurveda drug manufacturing center.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of ….. year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

T!IO ksIamdokd.drfha kukUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; ngau;Name of the Drug Manufacturing Center

ksIamdokd.drfha ,smskhkUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; KfthpAddress of the Drug Manufacturing Center

T!IO ksIamdokd.dr whs;slref.a kukUe;J cw;gj;jp epiya cupikahsupd; ngau;Name of the proprietor of the Drug Manufacturing Center

ms<sfh, lrkq ,nk T!IO j¾.jahupf;fg;gLk; kUe;Jfspd; tiffs;Types of drugs being prepared

T!IO ksIamdokd.drh msysg jQ ÈkhkUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyak; epWtg;gl;l jpfjpDate of the Establishment of Drug Manufacturing Center

WmfoaYl ffjoHjrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhMNyhrid itj;jpahpd; ngau; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;Name of the Consultant physician and registration No.

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024122A

wdhq¾fõo kj ksIamdokhla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj Gjpa cw;gj;jpiag; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF A NEW AYURVEDA PRODUCT

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk wdhq¾fõo kj ksIamdokhla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj Gjpa cw;gj;jpiag;iag; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an Ayurveda new product.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .............. tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

T!IO ksIamdokd.drfha kukUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; ngau;Name of the Drug Manufacturing Center

ksIamdok.drfha ,smskhkUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; KfthpAddress of the Drug Manufacturing Center

T!IO ksIamdokd.dr whs;slref.a kukUe;J cw;gj;jp epiya cupikahsupd; ngau;Name of the proprietor of the Drug Manufacturing Center

ksIamdokh lrkq ,nk kj ksIamdokh j¾.h$ Catogery/ jahupf;fg;gLk; Gjpa cw;gj;jp tiffs; Wmf,aLkh$ ScheduleName of new Ayurveda product

kj ksIamdokh ksIamdokh i|yd wkqu; jQ Èkh Gjpa cw;gj;jpf;fhf mDkjpf;fg;gl;l jpfjpThe date the new product is approved for production

WmfoaYl ffjoHjrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhMNyhrid itj;jpahpd; ngau; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;Name of the Consultant Physican and registration No.

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

123A

wdhq¾fõo Tiq ie,la ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj kUe;J tpw;gid epiyaj;jpidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF AN AYURVEDA PHARMACY

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo Tiq ie,la f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj Gjpa cw;gj;jpiag;iag; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an Ayurveda pharmacy.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ....... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdhq¾fõo Tiqif,a ku kUe;J tpw;gid epiyaj;jpd; ngau; Name of the Ayurveda Pharmacy

wdhq¾fõo Tiqif,a ,smskh kUe;J tpw;gid epiyaj;jpd; KfthpAddress of the Ayurveda Pharmacy

wdhq¾fõo Tiqi, whs;slref.a kukUe;J tpw;gid epiya cupikahsupd; ngau;Name of the proprietor of the Ayurveda Pharmacy

wf,ú lrkq ,nk T!IO ldKav tpw;gid nra;ag;gLk; kUe;Jfs;Categories of drugs sold

wdhq¾fõo Tiqi, wdrïN l< ÈkhkUe;J tpw;gid epiyak; Muk;gpf;fg;gl;l jpfjp Date of Establishment of Ayurveda Pharmacy

wdhq¾fõo Tiqi, Ndrj isák ffNIÊcljrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhkUe;J tpw;gid epiya kUe;jhsupd; ngah; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;Name Registration Number of the Pharmacist in charge of the Ayurveda Pharmacy

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024124A

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdjla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj kUe;J fsQ;rpakhfg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF AN AYURVEDIC DRUG STORE

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdjla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj kUe;J fsQ;rpakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an Ayurveda drug store.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ..... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdfõ ku kUe;J fsQ;rpa epiyaj;jpd; ngau; Name of Ayurveda drug store

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdfõ ,smskh kUe;J fsQ;rpa epiyaj;jpd; KfthpAddress of the Ayurveda drug store

.nvdj wh;a iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$ whs;slref.a kukUe;J fsQ;rpa cupikahsupd; ngau;Name of the company/business/proprietor whom the store belongs

.nvd lrkq ,nk ksIamdok ldKav fsQ;rpag;gLj;jg;gLk; kUe;Jfspd; tiffs;Categories of drugs being stored

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdj wdrïN jQ ÈkhkUe;Jf; fsQ;rpak; epWtg;gl;l jpfjp Date of Establishment of Ayurveda drug store

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdj Ndrj isák ffNIÊcljrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhkUe;Jf; fsQ;rpa kUe;jhsupd; ngah; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;Name of the Registration Number of the Pharmacist in charge of the Ayurveda drug store

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

125A

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF IMPORTATION OF AYURVEDA PRODUCTS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAh;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the registration for import of Ayurveda products is granted to the Company/Business/Individuals whose details are below.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah; Name of Ayurveda Products Importing Company/Business/Individual

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; KfthpAddress of Ayurveda Products Importing Company/Business/Individual

wdkhkh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok,wf;Fkjp MAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jpfs;Imported Ayurveda products

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdokh wdkhk wjYH;djh m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl wf,úh ....................MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjp Njit Muha;r;rp khjphp tpw;gid ....................Import requirement of Ayurveda products Research Specimen Sale ....................

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskhMAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jp fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk; Name and address of Ayurveda product store

wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;Number and Date of Import Export Control Department registration

foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlhNjrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhNkw;gb nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;Sri Lanka Customs registration number obtained for import of Ayurveda Products

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024126A

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF EXPORTATION OF AYURVEDA DRUG PRODUCTS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the registration for Export of Ayurveda products is granted to the Company/Business/Individuals whose details are below.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ..... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

T!IO wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku MAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah;Name of Ayurveda Products exporting Company/Business/Individual

T!IO wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskhMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; Kfthp Address of Ayurveda Products exporting Company/Business/Individual

wmkhkh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdokVw;Wkjp MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs;Exported Ayurveda products

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhk wjYH;djh m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl wf,úh ....................MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjp Njit Muha;r;rp khjphp tpw;gid ....................Export requirement of Ayurveda products Research Specimen Sale ....................

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskhMAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jp fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk; Name and address of Ayurveda product store

wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;Number and Date of Import Export Control Department registration

foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlhNjrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhNkw;gb nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;Sri Lanka Customs registration number obtained for export of Ayurveda Products

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

127A

wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wdkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF IMPORTATION OF AYURVEDA RAW MATERIALS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wdkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the registration for import of Ayurveda raw materials is granted to the Company/Business/Individuals whose details are below.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ...... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wuqøjH wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah; Name of Ayurveda raw materials Importing Company/Business/Individual

wuqøjH wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; KfthpAddress of Ayurveda raw materials Importing Company/Business/Individual

wdkhkh lrkq ,nk wuqøjH,wf;Fkjp %yg;nghUl;fs;Imported Ayurveda raw materials

wuqøjH wdkhk wjYH;djh m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl wf,úh ....................MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp Njit Muha;r;rp khjphp tpw;gid ....................Import requirement of Ayurveda raw materials Research Specimen Sale ....................

wuqøjH .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskhMAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk; Name and address of Ayurveda raw materials store

wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAkNumber and Date of Import Export Control Department registration

foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlhNjrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

wuqøjH wdkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh%yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;Sri Lanka Customs regsiration number obtained for import of Ayurveda raw materials

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024128A

wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wmkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF EXPORTATION OF RAW MATERIALS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wmkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjpf;fhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the registration for export of Ayurveda raw materials is granted to the Company/Business/Individuals whose details are below.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ......... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wuqøjH wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah; Name of Ayurveda raw materials exporting Company/Business/Individual

wuqøjH wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; KfthpAddress of Ayurveda raw materials exporting Company/Business/Individual

wmkhkh lrkq ,nk wuqøjHVw;Wkjp MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs;Exported Ayurveda raw materials

wuqøjH wmkhk wjYH;djh m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl wf,úh ....................MAu;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp Njit Muha;r;rp khjphp tpw;gid ....................export requirement of Ayurveda raw materials Research Specimen Sale ....................

wuqøjH .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskhMAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk; Name and address of Ayurveda raw materials store

wmkhk ixj¾Ok uKav,fha ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;Number and Date of Import and Export Control Department registration

foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlhNjrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

wuqøjH wmkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh%yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ngwg;gl;Ls;sjhSri Lanka Customs regsiration number obtained for export of Ayurveda raw materials

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kua tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

129A

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,sh i|yd weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjHwdkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfspw;fhd / kUe;Jg; nghjpfs; / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs; vd;gdtw;wpd; ,wf;Fkjpapidg; gjpT nra;tjw;fhd tpz;zg;gk;CERTIFICATE OF IMPORT REGISTRTION OF PACKAGING/PRESERVATIVES/EXPCIPIENTS FOR AYURVEDA MANUFACTURING PROCESS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,shg wjYH my; weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH wdkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;tjw;fhd epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the registration for import of packaging/preservatives/excipient materials required for the Ayurveda manufactuing process is granted to the Company/Business/Individuals whose details are below.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .......x tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku,wf;Fkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; ngau;Name of Importing Company/Business/Individual

wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; KfthpAddress of Importing Company/Business/Individual

wdkhkh lrkq ,nk weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH ,wf;Fkjp kUe;Jg; nghjpfs; / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs;Imported packaging/preservatives/excipient materials

wdkhk wjYHd;djh m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl ksIamdokh wf,úh ....................,wf;Fkjp Njit Muha;r;rp khjphp cw;gj;jp tpw;gid ....................Import requirement Research Specimen production Sale ....................

.nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskhfsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;Name and address of store

wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;Number and Date of Import Export Control Department registration

foaYSh wdo dhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlhNjrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk; Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

wdkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh%yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk; Sri Lanka Customs registration number obtained for import

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024130A

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,sh i|yd weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH wmkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfspw;fhd / kUe;Jg; nghjpfs; / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs; vd;gdtw;wpd; Vw;Wkjpapidg; gjpT nra;tjw;fhd tpz;zg;gk;CERTIFICATE OF EXPORT REGISTRTION OF PACKAGING/PRESERVATIVES/EXPCIPIENTS FOR AYURVEDA MANUFACTURING PROCESS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,shg wjYH my; weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH wmkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfspw;fhd/kUe;Jg; nghjpfs;/ ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs;/Jizj; jputpaq;fs; vd;gdtw;wpd; Vw;Wkjpf;fhfg; gjpT nra;tjw;fhf epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.

I am hereby approving that in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the registration for export of packaging/preservatives/excipient materials required for the Ayurveda manufacturing process is granted to the company/individual whose details are below.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ....... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a kuVw;Wkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; ngau;Name of Exporting Company/Business/Individual

wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskhVw;Wkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; KfthpAddress of Exporting Company/Business/Individual wmkhkh lrkq ,nk weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjHVw;Wkjp kUe;Jg; nghjpfs; / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs; Exporting packaging/preservatives/excipient materials

wmkhk wjYH;djh m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl ksIamdokh wf,úh ....................Vw;Wkjp Njit Muha;r;rp khjphp cw;gj;jp tpw;gid ....................Import requirement Research Specimen production Sale ....................

.nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskhfsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;Name and address of store

YS% ,xld wmkhk ixj¾Ok uKav,fha ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh,yq;if Vw;Wkjp mgptpUj;jpj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;Number and Date of Import Export Control Department registration

foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlhNjrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department

wmkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh%yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk; Sri Lanka Customs registration number obtained for export

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

131A

LICENCE TO IMPORT AN AYURVEDA PRODUCT AS SAMPLES

FOR TEST/ EXAMINATION/ ANALYSIS/ CLINICAL TRIAL/

DISTRIBUTION AS PHYSICIAN’S SAMPLES

Licence No.: ………………………………….

…………………..………………………………………………………………………… of ………………… …………………………………………………………………. is/are hereby licenced to import from ……………………………………………………………………………………………… the Ayurveda product specified below for the purpose of test/ examination/ analysis/ clinical trial/ distribution as physician’s samples.

This licence is subject to conditions prescribed in the Ayurveda Code for Ayurveda medicine and Surgery Regulations, 2024 made under the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 and shall be in force during the period stated in this licence, unless it is earlier suspended or cancelled.

Generic name of Ayurveda product : ..........................

Brand name (if any) : ..........................

Quantity : ..........................

Pack size(s) : ..........................

Country of the origin : ..........................

Name of the Manufacturer : ..........................

Contact details of the Manufacturer : ..........................

Period of validity of the licence : ..........................

Date of issue : ..........................

Receipt No. for fees paid and Date : ..........................

……………………………

Commissioner General of Ayurveda

.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna, Maharagama.

N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024132A

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION FOR TRANSPORT OF AYURVEDIC PRODUCTS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLtjw;fhf; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.

I am hereby approved that the Ayurvedic products listed below have been registered for transportation in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ...... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a kuMAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; ngau;Name of Company/ Business/ individual transporting Ayurveda products

wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; KfthpAddress of Company/ Business/ individual transporting Ayurveda products

m%jdykh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok j¾. NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLk; MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs;Types of Ayurveda products transported

whÿïlre i;= wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fjys ,shdmÈxÑ ksIamdokd.dr$.nvd$Tiqie,a úia;rtpz;zg;gjhhpaplk; MAs;Ntj jpizf;fs gjpT ,yf;fk; cw;gj;jp epiyak; / fsQ;rpak; / tpw;gid epiya juTfs; Details of manufactures/ stores/ pharmacies registered with the Department of Ayurveda owned by the applicant

wdh;kfha ku ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh ,smskhepWtdj;jpd; ngah; gjpT ,yf;fk; Kfthp Name of Institute No of Registration Address......................................... .................................. .................................................................................................. .................................. .........................................................

m%jdykh i|yd fhdod.kq ,nk r:h ms<sn| úia;rNtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjw;fhfg; gad;gLj;jg;gLk; thfdk; gw;wpa tpguq;fs;:Details of the vehicle used for transportationj¾.h thfd tif Type ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh thfd ,y. No of Registration j¾Kh epwk; Colour......................................... ................................................................. ............................................................................. ................................................................. ............................................................................. ................................................................. ....................................

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

133A

wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%hMAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION FOR TRANSPORT OF RAW MATERIALS

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLtjw;fhf; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.

I am hereby approved that the Ayurveda raw materials below have been registered for transportation in accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ......... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; ngau;Name of Company/ Business/ individual transporting Ayurveda raw material

wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; KfthpAddress of Company/ Business/ individual transporting Ayurveda raw material

m%jdykh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH j¾. NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLk; MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs;Types of Ayurveda raw material transported

wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdyk wjYH;djh - wdkhkh$wmkhkh$ksIamdokhg$.nvdlrKhg$foaYSh fj<|fmd,MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; Njit Vw;Wkjp / ,wf;Fkjp / cw;gj;jpf;F / fsQ;rpaj;jpw;F / cs;ehl;L re;ij

Ayurveda raw material transportation requirement - Import/Export/Production/Storing/Local market

whÿïlre i;= wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fjys ,shdmÈxÑ ksIamdokd.dr$.nvd$Tiqie,a úia;rtpz;zg;gjhhpaplk; MAs;Ntj jpizf;fs gjpT ,yf;fk; cw;gj;jp epiyak; / fsQ;rpak; / tpw;gid epiya juTfs; Details of manufactures/ stores/ pharmacies registered with the Department of Ayurveda owned by the applicantwdh;kfha ku epWtdj;jpd; ngau; Name of Institute ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh gjpT ,yf;fk No of Registration ,smskh Kfthp Address...................................................................................... ..................................................... ……………..................................................................................................... ..................................................... ……………............... m%jdykh i|yd fhdod.kq ,nk r:h ms<sn| úia;rNtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjw;fhfg; gad;gLj;jg;gLk; thfdk; gw;wpa tpguq;fs;Details of the vehicle used for transportationj¾.h thfd tif Type ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh thfd ,y. No of Registration j¾Kh epwk; Colour......................................... ................................................................. ............................................................................. ................................................................. ............................................................................. ................................................................. ....................................

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.

N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024134A

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.d N+ñhla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl wxlhMAs;Ntj kUe;Jfs; cw;gj;jp tpis epyj;ijg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF AN AYURVEDA MEDICINAL CULTIVATING LAND

j,x.= ld,h Èk isg Èk olajd iy;sl m;%fha wxlhnry;YgbahFk; njhlf;fk; tiu rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;Valid Period from Up to Certificate No.

wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.d N+ñhla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'

1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj kUe;Jfs; tpis epykhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.

I am hereby approving that accordance with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to orders and instructions issued from time to time by the Department of Ayurveda, that the following details have been registered as an Ayurveda medicinal cultivation land.

ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'

vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ....... tUl fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo; nry;YgbahFk;.

This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj whs;slref.a kuMAs;Ntj xslj tpis epyj;jpd; chpikahshpd; ngau;Name of the owner of Ayurveda medicinal cultivation land

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj whs;slref.a ,smskhMAs;Ntj xslj tpis epyj;jpd; chpikahshpd; Kfthp:\Address of the owner of Ayurveda medicinal cultivation land

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dfõ kuMAs;Ntj xslj Tpis epyj;jpd; ngau;Name of Ayurveda medicinal cultivation land wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj msysá ia:dkfha ,smskhMAs;Ntj xslj tpis epyj;jpd; KfthpAddress of Ayurveda medicinal cultivation land

j.d lrkq ,nk T!IO j¾.tpistpf;fg;gLk; xsljq;fspd; tiffs;Types of medicines being cultivated

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dlr we;s bvï m%udKhMAs;Ntj xsljq;fs; tpistpf;fg;gll epyj;jpd; msTArea of land under cultivation of Ayurveda medicines

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj wdrïN l< ÈkhMAs;Ntj xslj tsu;g;G Muk;gpf;fg;gl;l jpfjpDate of commencement of Ayurveda medicinal cultivation land

wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj Ndrj isák lDIs WmfoaYljrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlhMAs;Ntj xsljq;fs tpisr;riy Nkw;ghu;it nra;Ak; MNyhrfhpd; ngau; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;Name and Registration number of agriculture supervisor in charge of Ayurveda medicinal cultivation

……………………………………… wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk; Commissioner General of Ayurveda

20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna,Maharagama

ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk; Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

135A

TEMPORARY/ PERMANENT LICENCE

FOR CULTIVATE, MANUFACTURE, PURCHASE, STORAGE, DISTRIBUTION, SALE,

EXPORT OF CANNABIS AND CANNABIS RELATED ARTICLES, SUBSTANCE OR DRUGS

AND AYURVEDA PRODUCTS

Licence No: ………………………………….

…………………..………………………………………………………………………… of ………………… …………………………………………………………………. is/are hereby temporary/ permanent licenced to operate cultivation, manufacturing, purchase, storage, distribution, sale, export Cannabis and Cannabis related articles, substance or drugs and Ayurveda products, from …………………… to ………………………… .

This licence is subject to conditions prescribed in the Ayurveda Code for Ayurveda medicine and Surgery Regulations, 2024 made under the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 and shall be in force during the period stated in this licence, unless it is earlier suspended or cancelled.

Type of licence : ..........................

Type of Ayurveda product : ..........................

Brand name (if any) : ..........................

Period of validity of the licence : ..........................

Date of issue : ..........................

Receipt No. for fees paid and Date : ..........................

……………………………

Commissioner General of Ayurveda

.....................of …………………………20 ………………… Department of Ayurveda, Old Kottawa Road, Navinna, Maharagama.

N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024136A

Schedule V

Specification relating to packing, labelling and contents of a brochure

Label and Packing Contents of the brochure

The container of every medicine imported, manufactured, processed or packed locally or sold or exposed for sale shall have a label bearing the following information in with the National Language Policy requirement.

(a) The official or generic name.

(b) If conformity with a pharmacopeial monograph is claimed for a product, relevant labeling requirements given in both general and specific monographs shall be adhered to.

(c) The brand/ proprietary name (if any): The brand name should not be already registered for another product.

(d) A statement of the active substance(s) showing quantitative particulars:

(i) The quantity of each active ingredient, identified by its appropriate non- proprietary name, in each dosage unit of the medicinal product expressed in terms of weight, volume, capacity or units of activity; or

(ii) where there is no dosage unit, the quantity of each active ingredient identified by its appropriate non- proprietary name, in the container of the medical product expressed in terms of weight, volume, capacity, or units of activity or percentage by weight or volume of the total quantity;

(e) Pack size: the number of doses, contained in the pack with reference to weight, or volume of the contents.

(f) Excipient(s) known to have undesirable effects and any other similar ingredients specified by the Authority.

(g) The dosage.

(h) The route of administration for injectable products.

(i) Storage temperature and, other special storage precautions if any.

(j) A special warning that the product must be stored out of reach of children.

(k) Specific instructions if the product needs to be reconstituted, diluted, or prepared by any other means prior to its use.

(l) Where applicable, the product is sterile.

(m) Where applicable, the product is free from bacterial endotoxins or the product is apyrogenic.

(n) For injectable solutions, not to use if visible particles are present.

(o) Any other special warnings and precautions that may be necessary for the particular medicinal product.

(p) The date of manufacture in clear terms (month/ year)

(q) The date of expiry in clear terms (month/ year)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024

137A

(r) The batch or lot number assigned by the manufacturer, and

(s) The period for which the medicine can be used after the opening of the container or after the reconstitution of the product, if applicable as the case may be.

(t) Specific precautions relating to disposal of unused quantities of the product, where applicable.

(u) The name of the manufacturer and address of the manufacturing site.

• The name and address of the batch releaser shall be used, if different from the drug product manufacturer.

• Where the product owner is different to the manufacturer, the label shall indicate such face in the following manner: ‘manufactured by (name and address of actual manufacturer) for (name of product owner)’.

• The name and address of the packaging site(s) may be included [if different from the manufacturing/ release site (s)]

Directives of the National Languages Commission

In keeping with the National Languages Policy requirements, the official or generic name shall be displayed in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.

• For medicines dispensed with an intact outer carton (e.g. a liquid bottle, an ointment tube), displaying the name in local languages on the outer carton is sufficient.

• If the product is taken out from the outer carton for dispensing (e.g. blister strips) or if the product has no outer carton, the primary label should indicate the name in local languages.

• The requirement is not compulsory for injections which require professional healthcare staff for administration.

Exemptions for smaller labels

Primary labels on smaller containers such as a blister strip, an ampoule or vial with a volume of 10 ml or less shall contain the following minimum information:-

(a) the generic or common name,

(b) the brand name (where applicable),

(c) the strength of the drug (where applicable),

(d) lot or Batch number,

(e) the date of expiry; and

(f) the name or logo of the manufacturer or the product owner.

In addition, route of administration shall be indicated for injections. This may be indicated in abbreviations. The storage instructions shall be indicated on strips.

The information exempted on the primary label should be included on the outer carton and/ or the leaflets.

Where practicable, the name and strength of the product should appear over each blister pocket or be oriented centrally across the pack. It is important that the particulars remain available to the user up to the point at which the last does is removed from the blister pack.

General Information provided in the labels should be consistent with the information.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.