==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

අංංක 2472/02 - 2026 ජනවාාරි මස 19 වැැනි සඳුදාා - 2026.01.19No. 2472/02 - MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2026

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

1A - G 46131 - 354 (01/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

PROCLAMATION BY HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT

SealAnura Kumara Dissanayake.

SVASTI !

To all to whom these presents shall come, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Head of State, Head of the Executive and of the Government, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.

Send Greetings:

Whereas, I am desirous of awarding a commemorative medal to all ranks of the Regular and Volunteer Forces of the Navy and civil employees of the approved cadre of the Navy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Navy.

Now, therefore, it is my will and pleasure to institute, constitute, and create a new Medal, which will be greatly appreciated by all ranks of the Navy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka who are duly qualified to receive the award.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.20262A

Wherefore, the rules and regulations for the governance of same are made, ordained and established by me, and shall henceforth be inviolably kept:

Firstly :

Style and Designation – It is ordained that this medal shall be styled and designated the “75TH NAVY ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL”.

Secondly :

Description – It is ordained that the medal shall be made of silver-plated cupronickel and shall be designed in the polygonal shape of a diamond, bearing in relief on the obverse in the centre, a depiction of the map of Sri Lanka, signifying the role of national security assigned to the Navy and its distinguished service throughout the island, and on either side of the above, the design shall signify the 75 years of victorious service rendered by the Sri Lanka Navy from 1950 to 2025, the waves of the sea on the outward of the map shall represent the Navy as the pride of the ocean, the warship shall depict the Navy’s power, strength, technological advancement, and security. The reverse side of the medal shall bear, in relief, the emblem of the Sri Lanka Navy.

Thirdly :

Ribbon – It is ordained that the medal shall be worn on the left breast suspended from a ribbon 5 cm in length and 3 cm in width, of which the centre part consists of a stripe of blue (navy blue) of 2 mm, two white (diamond white) stripes of 5 mm on either side, and stripes of blue (navy blue) of 9 mm on both sides. The stripes of blue (navy blue) of this ribbon represent the ocean and the white (diamond white) represents peace and purity.

Fourthly :

Eligibility – It is ordained that the medal shall be awarded to all ranks of Regular and Volunteer Forces of the Navy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka who are in active service on the Ninth Day of December Two Thousand and Twenty Five (including participants of basic training courses) and the civil employees of the approved cadre of the Sri Lanka Navy who are recommended by the Commander of the Navy as appropriate to receive the award under the terms and conditions defined in the regulations hereinafter made.

Fifthly :

Registration – It is ordained that the names of all those to whom the medal is awarded, shall be published in the Service Order of the Sri Lanka Navy and a register of such names shall be maintained under the direction of respective Service Commanders.

Sixthly :

Order of Wear – It is ordained that in the official list showing the order in which Orders, Decorations and Medals shall be worn, the 75TH NAVY ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL shall be worn before the SRI LANKA REPUBLIC NAVY GOLDEN JUBILEE MEDAL reserved for celebrating special date.

Seventhly :

Miniatures – It is ordained that reproductions in miniature known as miniature Medals, which may be worn on certain occasions by those to whom the Medal is awarded, shall be approximately half the size of the award and a sealed pattern of the miniature Medal shall be kept in the Headquarters of the Navy.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2026

3A

Eighthly :

Forfeiture and Restoration .– It is ordained that as the President, I am vested with the power to cancel and annul the award of a Medal made to any person, and the power to restore an award so forfeited under the Regulations hereinafter made. The notice of cancellation or restoration in every case shall be published in the Navy order. Given at Presidential Secretariat under the Public Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 12th Day of December, Two Thousand and Twenty Five.

By Order of the Honourable President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

75TH NAVY ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL

REGULATIONS made by the Honourable President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka; to grant, forfeit, restore the 75th Navy Anniversary Commemorative Medal and other matters in amplification of the provisions set out in the Presidential Warrant.

By Order of the Honourable President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

Presidential Secretariat, Colombo 01,December 12, 2025.

REGULATIONS OF 75TH NAVY ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL

1' All ranks of Regular and Volunteer Forces of the Navy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka who are in active service on the Ninth Day of December, Two Thousand and Twenty Five (including participants of basic training courses) and civil employees of the approved cadre of the Sri Lanka Navy who are recommended by the Commander of the Navy as appropriate to receive the award under the terms and conditions defined in the regulations hereinafter made.

2' The following personnel are not eligible to receive the Medals:-

(a) Personnel who are Absence without Leave (AWL) or have deserted the service as of 09th December, 2025. (b) Those who have malingered caused self-inflicted injuries and deliberately avoided duties as of 09th December 2025.

3' This Medal may be made posthumously to the next-of-kin of the recipient or a representative nominated by the next-of-kin.

4' Every recommendation shall be submitted with the Number, Rank and Name in Full of the person recommended.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'19Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.20264A

5' The names of all those to whom the Medal is awarded shall be published in the Navy Orders and a register of such recipients shall be maintained under the direction of the Navy Commander.

6. While being a recipient of the Medal, every naval person of the Navy who is cashiered, discharged with disgrace, removed, who has been called upon to resign his Commission or retire, shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless the Honourable President shall otherwise direct.

7. A person who, while being a recipient of the Medal, is convicted of an offence of treason, sedition, mutiny, cowardice, disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind, or is discharged for misconduct or who is convicted by the civil authorities while being subject to the laws of the Navy, shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless the Honourable President shall otherwise direct.

8. A Medal forfeited by any person may be restored by the Honourable President at his discretion.

9. A notice of forfeiture or restoration shall in every instance be published in the Navy Orders.

10. Where an officer, sailor or a civil employee, who is desirous of replacing a Medal that has been lost, a declaration must be submitted by the officer, sailor or the civil employee concerned to his Commanding Officer/superior officer, stating the circumstances under which the loss occurred. This declaration should then be transmitted to the Honourable President through the due process. Where the explanation given as to the loss is considered satisfactory, another Medal may be obtained in lieu of the lost Medal after due payment.

11. In these regulations, it shall be considered that–

(a) “Navy” means - The Sri Lanka Navy

75TH NAVY ANNIVERSARY COMMEMORATIVE MEDAL

FRONTBACK

EOG 01-0189

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.