==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.20161A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1987$21 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks nodod - 2016'10'05No. 1987/21 - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 05, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY LAW, No. 41 OF 1978

Order under Section 3

BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978, I, PataleeChampika Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development being of the opinion that the area specified inColumn I of the Schedule, appended hereto, having specified metes and bounds in the corresponding entry in Column II ofthe Schedule, are suitable for development, do by this order declare such area to be an Urban Development Area for thepurpose of that Section.

PATALEE CHAMPIKA RANAWAKA,Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,17th and 18th Floors,“Suhurupaya”,Subuthipura Road,Battaramulla,20th September 2016.SCHEDULE I

RAKWANA URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREA

Column IColumn II

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

All the areas comprised of Grama Niladhari DivisionsNo. 231B Rakwana Town, No. 231 Rakwana North (Part),No. 231C Rakwana South (Part), No. 231D Kottala (Part),No. 231A Weralugahamula (Part) and No. 237 Masimbula(Part) of Godakawela situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha areawithin the Godakawela Divisional Secretariat Division ofRatnapura District in the Sabaragamuwa Province, havingthe metes and bounds specified in the corresponding entryin Column II of this Schedule.

North :

From the interception of the centre line of Demuwath riverand Liyanagoda road, a line drawn north east and eastwardsalong the centre line of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17)main road; thence, a line drawn south east, south, east andagain south wards along the centre line of the said road untilit meets the intersecting point of centre line of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17) main road and Delwin Watta road ;thence, a line drawn south, east, south east, north east andagain south east wards along the centre line of Delwin Watta

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.20162A

road until it meets the centre line of Rakwana-Masimbula -Godakawala road ; thence, a line drawn north east, north,north east and east wards along the centre line of Rakwana-Masimbula-Godakawela road until it meets the centre lineof Karunarathnegama road.

East :

From the last mentioned point a line drawn south and southeast wards along the centre line of Karunarathnegama roaduntil it meets the centre line of Kandapola road ; thence, aline drawn north east, east, south east and north east wardsalong the centre line of Kandapola road until it meets thecentre line of Rakwana river ; thence, a line drawn southeast, south west, north west, south east, south west, northwest, west and south wards along the centre line of Rakwanariver until it meets the centre line of Galdola ; thence, a linedrawn south, south west, south east, west and south wardsalong the centre line of Galdola until it meets the centreline of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17) main road.

South :

From the last mentioned point a line drawn west, north, northwest, south west, north west, south west and north west wardsalong the centre line of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17)main road crossing the centre line of Rakwana river until itmeets the centre line of Aleton Watta road ; thence, a linedrawn west, north, north west and again north wards alongthe centre line of Aleton Watta road until it meets the centreline of Rakwana-Pothupitiya-Kalawana (B 181) road ;thence, a line drawn south west, south and west wards alongthe centre line of Rakwana-Pothupitiya-Kalawana (B 181)road until it meets the centre line of Kandegama-Gangodaroad.

West :

From the last mentioned point a line drawn north west, southwest, north west, west, north west, north, east and north eastwards along the centre line of Kandegama-Gangoda roaduntil it meets the centre line of Rakwana-Gangoda-Pannilaroad ; thence, a line drawn south east, north east, east, northeast and south wards along the centre line of Rakwana-Gangoda-Pannila road until it meets the centre line ofKottala Dola ; thence, a line drawn north east, north, northeast and north west wards until it meets the centre line ofAneka Dola ; thence, a line drawn north west, north, west,north west and again west wards along the centre line ofKottala Dola until it meets the centre line of Demuwathriver ; thence, a line drawn north west wards along the centreline of Demuwath river until it meets the starting point.

SCHEDULE I (Contd.)

RAKWANA URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREA

Column IColumn II

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

10-662