THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of September 02, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 07.09.2022)

KANDYAN MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE(AMENDMENT)

BILL

to amend the Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 113)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs andConstitutional Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

2-2d

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

A

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause repeals Part II of the Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act(Chapter 113) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effectthereof is to eliminate the requirement of consent of a competent authority for a marriageof a minor and thereby making the age of eighteen years as the minimum age of marriagefor all persons subject to Kandyan Law.

Clause 3 : This clause amends section 16 of the principal enactment and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 2.

Clause 4 : This clause amends section 18 of the principal enactment and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 2.

Clause 5 : This clause amends section 19 of the principal enactment and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 2.

Clause 6 : This clause amends section 20 of the principal enactment and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 2.

Clause 7 : This clause amends section 29 of the principal enactment and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 2.

Clause 8 : This clause replaces section 60 of the principal enactment and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 2.

Clause 9 : This clause amends section 66 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof this section as amended is to remove the definition of the expression “minor” consequentto the amendment made by clause 2.

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce(Amendment)1

5

L.D.–O. 73/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE KANDYAN MARRIAGE AND DIVORCEACT (CHAPTER 113)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Kandyan Marriage andDivorce (Amendment) Act, No. of 2022.

2.Part II (sections 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15) of theKandyan Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 113)(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyrepealed.

3.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph (6)thereof; and

(2) in paragraph (7) thereof–

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (a)thereof, for the word “correct;”, of the words“correct; and”;

(b) by the substitution, in sub-parapraph (b)thereof, for the word “marriage;”, of the word“marriage.”; and

(c) by the repeal of sub-parapraphs (c) and (d)thereof.

4.Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the repeal of paragraph (5) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following paragraph:-

“(5) (a) Any party to the marriage who desires to obtain amarriage notice certificate from a District Registrar

Short title

10

15

20

25

Amendmentof section 16of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofPart II ofChapter 113

Amendmentof section 18of theprincipalenactment

2Kandyan Marriage and Divorce(Amendment)

before the expiry of the period referred to inparagraph (3) (a) (i) or paragraph (4) (a) (i) orparagraph (4) (c) (ii) of this section shall appear inperson before that Registrar and make and subscribea declaration to the effect that there is no lawfulimpediment or other lawful hindrance to themarriage.

(b)The declaration shall be accompanied by a receiptissued by the District Registrar in proof of paymentof the prescribed fee which shall be made by theparty making the declaration.”.

5.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) thereof as follows:-

(1)by the substitution, in paragraph (a) thereof, for theword “marriage;”, of the words “marriage; and ”;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof; and

(3)by the re-lettering of paragraph (c) as paragraph (b)thereof.

6.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following subsection:–

“(1) Any person, being a person who isinterested in a Kandyan marriage may object inwriting, to the issue of a marriage notice certificatein respect thereof.”; and

(2)by the repeal of sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (c)of subsection (2) thereof and the substitutiontherefor, of the following sub-paragraph:–

“(ii) whether the objector makes the objection inhis capacity as a person who is interested inthe marriage; and”.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Amendmentof section 19of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 20of theprincipalenactment

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce(Amendment)3

7.Section 29 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (1) thereof–

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (a)thereof, for the words “so specified;”, of thewords “so specified; and”;

(b) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) thereof; and

(c) by the re-lettering of sub-paragraph (c) as sub-paragraph (b) thereof; and

(2) in paragraph (2) thereof–

(a) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (a)thereof, for the words “so specified;”, of thewords “so specified; and”;

(b) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) thereof; and

(c) by the re-lettering of sub-paragraph (c) as sub-paragraph (b) thereof.

8.Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

60. Any person who, for the purpose ofprocuring the solemnization or registration ofa Kandyan marriage knowingly or wilfullymakes and subscribes any false declaration orsigns any false notice, under this Act shall beguilty of an offence under this Act.”.

9.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the definition of the expression“minor”.

5

10

15

20

25

“Falsedeclarations,&c.

Amendmentof section 66of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 29of theprincipalenactment

Replacementof section 60of theprincipalenactment

4Kandyan Marriage and Divorce(Amendment)

10.For avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declaredthat-

(a)the provisions of this Act shall not apply to anyKandyan marriage contracted prior to the date ofcommencement of this Act; and

(b)the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of section4 of the principal enactment shall not apply to anyKandyan marriage contracted on or after the date ofcommencement of this Act, save as provided forin section 112 of the Evidence Ordinance(Chapter 14).

11.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

5

10

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency

Avoidance ofdoult

Kandyan Marriage and Divorce(Amendment)5

Department of Government Printing