==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1952$40 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 03 jeks nodod - 2016'02'03No. 1952/40 - WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 03, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. IR/10/14/2011.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT CHAPTER 131

THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom theIndustrial Dispute which has arisen between Mr. A. Gamage,No. 88/20, Sri Bodhi Road, Gampaha of the one part andBank of Ceylon, No. 04, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha, Colombo01 of the other part was referred by order dated 27.03.2013made under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Dispute Act,Chapter 131 (as amended) and published in the Gazette ofthe Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri LankaExtraordinary No. 1807/26 dated 26.04.2013 forSettlement by Arbitration is hereby published in terms ofSection 18(1) of the said Act.

M.D.C. AMARATHUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05.22nd January, 2016.

Ref No. : IR/10/14/2011.

In the matter of an Industrial Dispute

Between

Mr. A. Gamage,No. 88/20, Sri Bodhi Road,Gampaha.

................Party of the First Part.

and

Bank of Ceylon,No. 04, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha,Colombo 01.

...........Party of the Second Part.

Award

The Honourable Minister of Labour and Labour RelationsGamini Lokuge, do by this virtue of the powers vested in himby Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 ofthe Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (1956 Revised Edition),as amended by Acts Nos. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of

Case No. A/3509

1A—G 22986 - 18 (02/2016)

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

1968 (read with Industrial Dispute - Special Provisions) Act,No. 37 of 1968 hereby appointed me as the Arbitrator byhis order dated 27th March, 2013 and referred the disputebetween the aforesaid parties for settlement by arbitration.

The statement of the matter in dispute between the aforesaidparties is as follows :

“Whether Mr. A. Gamage who had served as SecurityGuard of the Bank of Ceylon had been caused injustice bynot receiving the salary increments from year 2003 - 2008,Bonus, Holiday Allowances, the salary revisions as perCollective Agreement 2006 - 2008 and other entitlements,and if so, to what relief he is entitled”.

Appearances :

Party of the First Part :

Mr. Srinath Perera, Attorney - at Law appears on behalf forthe Party of the First Part.

Party of the Second Part :

Mr. Adhil Khasim, Attorney - at Law appears on behalf forthe Party of the Second Part.

Mrs. Dayajini Peeris - Human Resources Officerrepresented the Party of the Second Part.

Both Parties mentioned above, have submitted theirrespective statements that has led to the disputes in termsof Regulations 21 (1) and (2) of the Industrial DisputesRegulations, 1958. Thereafter, I made every endeavor toexplore a possibility of an amicable settlement which provedto be futile.

The party of the First Part A. Gamage the Workman(hereinafter referred to as Gamage) commenced to lead hissole evidence marking documents A-I to A-ll. Whereas theParty of the Second Part (hereinafter referred to as theBank) adduced the evidence of one Kannangara KoralalageaIndira Champa Kurnari Kannangara, Senior Manager andconcluded the case with documents marked R-I to R-16.Then they were given time to submit ‘Written Submissions’returnable on 9th November, 2015.

A review of Written Submissions of both Parties aswell as the evaluation of evidence reveals the factualbackground to this reference and the legal basis of theseveral reliefs sought by Gamage to be relevant to thisAward is as follows:-

Gamage joined the Bank on 04.05.1981 from theposition of Security Guard to Junior Security Officer withoutany blemish. However, on 21.05.1999 a Charge Sheet wasissued against him for acts of misconduct and found himintoxicated during working hours and forcefully holding bothhands of a lady Security Officer and pushing her against thewall and casting innuendoes which resulted in holding aDomestic Inquiry and found him guilty and as a punishmentsuspended a period of five (5) years increments with effectfrom 12th November, 1999 and ending on 04th November,2004 (R-6).

Yet again he was Charge Sheeted for acts ofmisconduct on 30th May, 2003 for picking up a Gold Chainand keeping it in his possession without handing over thesame to a Superior Officer (R-8). There ensued anotherDomestic Inquiry and his services were terminated with effectfrom 08.04.2003 by letter dated 16th June, 2004 (R-9).

Apparently, he filed an Application on 01.09.2004 inthe Labour Tribunal Case No: 1/122/04 under Section 31 B (1)of the Industrial Disputes Act, through his Trade Union,Ceylon Bank Employee’ Union in a representative capacityfor reinstatement with Back Wages. Finally, the LearnedPresident delivered an Order dated 10.07.2009 (OA2) in favorof the said Union to the tune of One Million Four Hundredand Eighty-five Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-six and Centseighty (Rs. 1,485,766. 80) based on the evidence led andsubmitted thereof.

It is pertinent to note that the Learned President in hisOrder (OA2) stated that, the Union failed to lead any evidenceof his (Gamage’s) salary increments and according to theRespondent’s (R-27), the Applicant’s increment had beensuspended and as such he had to rely on the only document(A-9) produced in the Labour Tribunal for the purpose ofcalculating Back Wages and it was calculated on the basisfor a period of 5 years and 8 months and 10 days to whichperiod Gamage was out of employment following suspensionby the Respondent (the Bank), namely form 08.04.2003 to18.12.2008 where he had reached the age of retirement of 55years.

The Learned President has clearly determined thattermination of his services was unjust and unlawful and statedin his order that, the due relief for Applicant was reinstatementwith Back Wages but, for the fact that he has reached hisretirement age by the time the order was pronounced on10.07.2009.

Meantime, the Bank initiated an Appeal proceedingagainst the order of the Learned President of the Labour

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

Tribunal in the Provincial High Court Case No. HCALT 37/2009.

Meantime, the Bank initiated an Appeal proceedingagainst the order of the Learned President of the LabourTribunal in the Provincial High Court Case No. HCALT 37/2009 (R-13(a))

After the pronouncement of Labour Tribunal’s Ordera new turn of events envisaged where, Gamage’s wifeB. Weerakoon Gamage on behalf of her husband appealedby a letter dated 20.08.2009 (A-9/ R-I0) making a humblerequest to ‘withdraw the High Court proceedings for thereason that, her husband Gamage had suffered two instancesof Myocardial Infarction one on 09.04.2009 and next on11.08.2009. On humanitarian grounds the Bank by aninternal Memorandum to the General Manager dated22.10.2009 (R-16 and R-16 (a)) sought permission towithdraw the High Court Appeal. The Bank in theirmagnanimity had acceded to her plea and implemented andhonoured the Labour Tribunal Order of 10.07.2009.

The conduct of Gamage is not an open secret.Moreover his character and nature of behavior was welldemonstrated, in that, no sooner the Bank withdrew the HighCourt Appeal (R-13 (1)) on 25.11.2009 than by letter dated30.03.2010 (A-3) addressed and forwarded to the DeputyManager of the Bank and thereafter, directed a letteraddressed to Commissioner of Labour dated 10.11.2010(A-06(a)), followed. In fact this (A-06(a)) has culminatedin the above said reference for Arbitration.

The Learned President of the Labour Tribunal at page10 of(OA 2) a specific and categorical stipulation had beenunderscored “without prejudice to any statutoryentitlements’. This has created confusion in the mind ofthe Administrative Officer namely the Commissioner whenhe was labouring in terms of section 16 namely “ ... shall beaccompanied by a statement prepared by the Commissionersetting out each of the matters which to his knowledge is indispute between the parties”, referred to above.

From the above facts and circumstances even a cursoryglance will enlighten a reader that Gamage had approachedtwo forums to ventilate his grievances and to obtain legalremedy. One through his Trade Union namely Ceylon Bank.Employees’ Union in the Labour Tribunal Case No. 1/122/04in terms of Section 31 B (l(a)) in a representative capacityand the other one by himself (Gamage) through the Ministerof Labour and Labour Relations in terms of Section 4 (1)of the Industrial Disputes Act No 43 of 1950 as amended.The matter in issue seems to be the termination of

employment and consequent reliefs meted out by the LabourTribunal Order of (OA2).

The Arbitrator under Industrial Disputes Act exercise arbitralpower and jurisdiction of the Arbitrator being equitable andhas an element of discretion, there can be no room fortechnicalities or trivialities. Further, jurisdiction of the Arbitatorunder the said Act is contingent on reference of an IndustrialDispute which can be challenged on the grounds that thematter referred does not relate to an Industrial Dispute. InBrown and Company Ltd V Ratnayake [1986] 1 BarAssociation Law Journal Report 229 at 231 Rodrigo J (withwhom Rattwatte J concurred) “ .. functions of the arbitralpower in Industrial Disputes is to ascertain and declare whatin the opinion of the Arbitrator ought to be the respectiverights and liabilities as they exist at the moment theproceedings are instituted.

From this it follows that if he is to ascertain whatought to be the rights and liabilities of parties and what theyare at the institution of the proceedings he has necessarilyto initiate proceedings himself. The ultimate burden ofmaking a just and equitable order is his.

With this in view I venture upon my task. It isappropriate to cite the case, in Silva V Kuruppu SC182/69; HC minutes of 14.10.1971. The Supreme Courttook the view that the assessment of compensation iseminently a matter within the province of the President ofthe Labour Tribunal and refused to intervene to reduce thequantum awarded although it appeared to be on the high sidestating the President had not acted on the wrong principlenor is the amount awarded so excessive to warrantintervention by the Appellate Court.

In a similar vein, in Up Country Distributers (Pvt) Ltd.V Subasinghe (1996) 2 SLT 380; S.C. Appeal No. 111/95.Wijetunge, J. observed: “The legislature has in its wisdomleft the matter in the hands of the Tribunal, presumablywith the confidence that the discretion would be dulyexercised. To my mind, some degree of flexibility in thatregard is both desirable and necessary if a Tribunal is tomake a just and equitable order”.

The above two Supreme Court cases set the tune forthe independence of judiciary and now that the LabourTribunals Presidents are Judicial Officers and areempowered and entertained authority to act judicially on acase by case basis provided that a Trade Union or a Workmanas applicant has to place solid facts and circumstancessupported by documents as enshrined in the Supreme CourtRule 3 (1) : the object is to ensure that the documentstendered by the parties are authentic documents that can be

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

relied upon in the decision making process and it cannot bepermitted to be used for taking advantage of lapse forsubverting of cause if justice.

It is also very relevant to highlight Dr. Amerasinghe Jin Jayasuriya V Sri Lanka State plantations Corporation[1995) 2 S.L.R.379. His Lordship stated that “Compensationis derived from the Latin root compensation, and what isexpected is that after a weighing together of evidence andprobabilities in the case, the Tribunal must form an opinionof the nature and extent of the loss, arriving in the end at anamount that a sensible person would not regard as mean orextravagant, but would rather consider to be just andequitable in all the circumstances of the case. There musteventually be an even balance of which the scales of justiceare meant to remind us. The Tribunal must endavour to giveeach man that which is his right”. Further, he continued andheld that ‘the burden of the workman to adduced sufficientevidence to enable the Tribunal to decide the actualfinancial loss caused because Compensation in anindemnity for such loss’.

Before analyzing the facts of the instant case it isnecessary to consider that the Bank at the verycommencement of the hearings has taken up certainPreliminary Objections. The main thrust of the argumenton behalf of the Bank was the reference made to me in thiscase is,bad in law because it dealt with a similar matteralready had been adjudicated by the competent Court on itsmerits namely by the Labour Tribunal.

Therefore, the Doctrine of Estoppel by Res judicataapplies and the Arbitrator cannot interpret what has alreadybeen decided on the quantum of Compensation and thusviolates the Doctrine of ‘autrefois acquit’ (Double jeopardy).

What is the meaning of Res judicata? It is the Doctrinethat prevents re-litigation of a claim that has been fullyconsidered and finally decided in Courts. If the losing partyattempts to re-assert such a claim in another action againstthe same defendant the claim will barred by the Doctrine ofRes judicata.

Abeyasekara, in his book ‘Industrial Law and Adjudication’chapter 54 page 998 states as follows so far as the Law ofRes judicata is concerned, the key section in IndustrialDisputes Act has two limbs they are as follows:

1. Where an application under Section 31 B (1) is -

(a) Entertained by a Labour Tribunal, and

(b) Proceedings thereon are taken, and

(c) Concluded,

the workman to whom the application relates shall notbe entitled to any other legal remedy vide: Section 31 B (5) ofthe Industrial Dispute Act as amended - in respect of matterto which the applications relates.

2. Where the Workman has resorted to any other legalremedy, he shall not thereafter be entitled to the remedy underSection 3IB (1).

An important point to note with regard to the rule ofRes judicata as embracing the Sections aforesaid (Sections31 B (l) read with 31 B (5)) is that somewhat dissimilar to therules available in Civil Law, the principle of Res judicata asenvisaged by these Section applies irrespective of the partiesto the subject matter of the application. The legal remedy thatis shut out in respect of the matter to which the applicationrelates necessarily is not in respect of the parties. Thuswhere a Trade Union on behalf of a Workman is a party to anapplication in a Labour Tribunal, and the application has beendisposed of, upon the same subject matter, the workmanconcerned, though he was not a party to the application,cannot resort to any other legal remedy.

The Principles underlying that there should be an endto litigation and person should not be vexed twice on thesame matter as is provided for in Section 31 B (5).

The case law in point is, In Namasivayam V TheSuperintendent, Dickoya Estate SC 69/De Novo 69 decidedon 12.Feb.1971 (unrep) the union field on an applicationon behalf of a workman and the application was dismissedfor default of appearance. The workman field anotherapplication, which was dismissed by the Tribunal in view ofthe earlier application and this dismissal was upheld by theSupreme Court.

In Mendis V River Valleys Development Board (1971)80 CLW49, held that Section 31 B (5) did not prevent anapplicant who had filed an action in the District Court whichwas withdrawn, from thereafter proceeding within anapplication to a Labour Tribunal which had been pending theDistrict Court action seeking substantially same relief sincethere was no final order or adjudication on the remedy soughtin the District Court. The Supreme Court thus set aside theorder of the Labour Tribunal upholding an objection by theemployer that in terms of Section 31 B (5) the Tribunal had nojurisdiction to hear and determine the application as theworkman had sought his remedy in the District Court.

However, the above said decision was not followed bythe Court of Appeal in Ceylon Tobacco Co Ltd V Illangasinghe

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

(1986) 1 SLR 1, where an employee who had first appliedto the commissioner of Labour in terms of the Terminationof Employment of Workmen (Special provisions) Act No45 of 1971 for relief upon termination, thereafter soughtsubstantially the same relief on an application to a LabourTribunal after the Commissioner determined that theworkman’s case was not covered by the Act since she hadconsented to the termination of her services. The LabourTribunal overruled a preliminary objection to themaintainability of the application based on Section 31 B(5).

The Court of Appeal interpreted the expression ‘legalremedy’ in Section 31B(5) to mean a remedy provided bylaw, whether it be under the common law or by statute,although it did not encompass any form of administrativerelief. The Court thus held that the employee had firstresorted to a remedy recognized by the 1971 Act.

G.P.S. De Silva J with Abeyawardena J agreeingrejected the construction given to Section 31 B (5) inMendis case cited above that what it precluded was not aworkman seeking but instead obtaining more than oneremedy, as it did violence to the plain language used in theSection.

Incidentally it should be noted that the amplitude ofthepowers of the Minister of the Labour is also highlighted bythe recent decision of the Court of Appeal in WinifreedaMills Ltd V Tillekeratne (1984) 1 SLR 186, herein theCourt of Appeal followed the earlier Supreme Court decisionin the Estates and Agency Co Ltd V Perera (1975) 78NLR 289, where the Court held that where applicationsbefore the Labour Tribunals were dismissed or terminatedwithout any adjudication on the merits, no finality attachesthe proceedings relating to the applications made to theLabour Tribunals. In such an event if the Minister of Labouris satisfied of the existence of an Industrial Dispute, nodoctrine of estoppel by Res judicata between the partiescan prevent the performance by the Minister of Labour ofhis statutory duty. Sharvanda J, in a separate judgmentexplained the rationale for this judicial policy as follows:“It has to be borne in mind that the Industrial Disputes Act isa piece of social legislation having for its object theprevention, investigation and settlement of IndustrialDisputes. Promotion of Industrial peace cannot be achievedby the application of technical doctrines of estoppel by Resjudicata or otherwise”.

Further, In Wimalasena V Navaratna (1978-79) 2SLR 10, the issue that arose for determination was whetherthe Minister of Labour has the power to refer an IndustrialDispute for Arbitration under Section 4 (1), when there was

an.inquiry pending the Labour Tribunal regarding the samedispute. By virtue of the operation of Section 31 B (2) (B)a proceeding pending before the Labour Tribunal would haveto be dismissed once reference to Arbitration is made. Citingthe Supreme Court decision in Perera’s case mentionedabove the Court of Appeal held the Minister in terms ofSection 4 (1) has the power to refer a dispute for settlementby arbitration, even though the inquiry was pending in theLabour Tribunal regarding the same dispute.

However, “in terms of article 114 of the constitution ofthe President of a Labour Tribunal is appointed by the JudicialServices Commission. Thus the status of a Labour Tribunalas it stands today is entirely different from what it was in 1957when the Industrial Disputes Act was enacted. InterpretationArticle 170 read with Article 114 of the constitution gaveeffect to the exhortations of their Lordships in Walker Sons& Co. Ltd. V F.C.W. Fry and went one step further byincluding the President of a Labour Tribunal within thedefinition of ‘Judicial Officer’. It is interesting to note thatJudicial Services Commission had published in the Gazetteof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1052dated 30.10.1998 a notification in which eighteen (18) LabourTribunal Presidents have been appointed as Magistrates forthe limited purpose of performing duties relating to theenforcement of their orders.

The combined effect of the provisions of InterpretationArticle 170, Articles 114 and 116 is that the decision inWimalasena V Navaratne and Others can no longer beconsidered as valid authority for the proposition that theMinister has unlimited power under Section 4 (1) of IndustrialDisputes Act which would enable him to refer a dispute, whichis pending before a Labour Tribunal to an Arbitrator forsettlement. Such an interpretation would necessarily infringeand violate the principle of independence of judiciaryenshrined in Article 116 of the Constitution which is theparamount law”. Vide: Upali Newspaper Limited V EksathKamkaru Samithiya 1999 3 SLR 205 in this case Court ofAppeal held that the Minister of Labour does not haveunlimited powers to refer dispute under Section 4 (1) ofIndustrial Disputes Act and that the Court could quashreference if bad in law.

It is settled law that an Arbitrator has the jurisdiction todetermine whether a valid industrial dispute has”been legallyreferred to him. In the case of Ceylon Bank Employees’ UnionV Yatawara 64 NLR 49 at page 56/57 it was held that aTribunal of special jurisdiction created by statute can onlyact, if terms contained in the statute giving it jurisdiction arecomplied with. If they are not complied with the jurisdictiondoes not arise.

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

In the light of the legal position detailed above thepivotal question that should be determined whether the TradeUnion which had filed the Labour Tribunal application hadafforded an opportunity with evidence and documents tosubstantiate its case for the Labour Tribunal President toassess, evaluate and to arrive at a decision to quantify thequantum of compensation due to them. Failure to adducefactual representations with solid and substantial evidenceand documents will turn out to be to their own detrimentand it is their own seeking and nothing will cure it. In fact,reference is in relation to the Labour Tribunal Order andthe relief granted which had been adjudicated on the meritsof the case and the quantum of compensation is determinedon just an equitable principle.

It is obviously clear the documents marked inArbitration proceedings such as documents A08, A10, A11and salary increments referred to should have been markedand adduced in evidence in the Labour Tribunal case. TheUnion applicant which is a strong Trade Union should havetaken interest and should have done justice to workman. Theirfailure cannot be remedied by another cause of action byseeking a reference by the workman himself under Section4 (l) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The reason being LabourTribunal President only categorically indicated withoutprejudice to any statutory entitlements and as such Gamageis not entitled to claim any salary increments or salaryrevision as the order precludes Gamage from claiming anypayment other than statutory payments. Gamage admittedstatutory payments include EPF and ETF. And therefore heis well aware that the other claims referred to in thereference could not be sought by the said reference whichhas no power or authority to go into the legality of the matter.Labour Tribunal President is a Judicial Officer who had madethe order and in terms of Section 31 D (l) which stipulatesan order of a Labour Tribunal shall be final and shall not becalled in question in any Court.

Where the workman who, or the Trade Union which,makes an application to a Labour Tribunal or the employerto whom that application relates is dissatisfied with the orderof Tribunal on that application, such workman, trade unionor employer may, by written petition in which the otherparty is mentioned as the respondent, appeal to the ProvincialHigh Court on a question of law, Vide: 31 D (2). InNamasivayam V The Superintendent, Dickoya Estate SC69/De Novo 69 decided on 12.Feb.1971 (unrep) the unionfiled on an application on behalf of a workman and theapplication was dismissed for default of appearance. Theworkman filed another application, which was dismissed bythe Tribunal in view of the earlier application and thisdismissal was upheld by ,the Supreme Court. The above saidcase is strictly relevant and applicable to the instant case

and therefore the reference made by the Minister is bad inlaw and therefore legally invalid.

Be that as it may, the maxim nellus commodum comperepotest de inuria sua propria meaning - that no man shall takeadvantage of his own wrong. Weeramantry’s “The Law ofContact” page 390 and 391. This maxim, which is based onelementary principles, is fully recognized in Courts of Lawand of equity: reasonableness is the basis of this rule, whicha Labour Tribunal is not entitled to ignore.

As mentioned above the Bank had initiated proceedingsagainst the order of the learned President of Labour Tribunalin the Provincial High Court Case No. HCALT 37/2009(R-l3(a)) By A9/R10 the wife of Gamage by letter dated20th August 2009 requested the above said Appeal bewithdrawn and the order of the President of Labour Tribunalto be complied with. The Bank, had acceded to the request ofGamage’s wife, at the expense and to its detriment fromproceeding with the Appeal in the High Court. Gamage havingprecluded the Bank from proceeding with the Appeal, to hisadvantage had thereafter made a complaint to theCommissioner resulted in this instant reference for theArbitration for Salary Increments from year 2003- 2008, Bonus,Holiday Allowances, Salary Revisions as per the CollectiveAgreement 2006- 2008 and other entitlements. In that, nosooner the Bank withdrew the High Court Appeal (R-13 (1))on 25.11.2009 than by letter dated 30.03.2010 (A-3) addressedand forwarded to the Deputy Manager of the Bank andthereafter, directed a letter addressed to Commissioner ofLabour dated 10.11.2010 (A-06(a)), followed.

Gamage had admitted in evidence that his wife hadtendered an Appeal to the Bank This attitude depicts hisdubious nature and was trying to take mean advantage of aninnocent generous heart namely the Bank.

On the application of the above said maxim nelluscommodum compere potest de inuria sua propria andconsidering the Supreme Court Rule 3 (1) referred to abovewill show Gamage is trying to take mean advantage of thegenerous disposition of the Bank and subverting the causeof justice. On the evidence established tend to tilt the scaleof justice in favour of the Bank. More so in applying thefollowing maxims namely - equality is equity and also hewho seeks equity must do equity. The evidencedemonstrated by Gamage and on a parity of reasoningthereon does not throw any light in his favour. Therefore onthat count also he failed measurably and the maxim that no

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.02.2016

man shall take advantage of his wrong is well establishedin this case.

It is apt to mention the concept of Social Justice set out veryeloquently by Sharvananda J , in Caledonian (Ceylon) Tea& Rubber Estate Ltd V Hillman (1977) 79 1 NLR 421. “ ...The goals and values to be secured and promoted by LabourTribunals are social security and social justice. The conceptof social justice is an integral part of industrial law and aLabour Tribunal cannot ignore its relevancy or norms inexercising its just and equitable jurisdiction. Its sweep iscomprehensive as it motivates the activities of the modernwelfare state. It is found on the basic ideal of socio-economicequality. Its aim is to assist in the removal of socio-economicdisparities and inequalities. It endeavors to resolve thecompeting claims of employers and employees by finding asolution which is just and fair to both parties.” One couldsafely conclude that equity will not suffer a wrong to bewithout a remedy.

On the strength of evidence adduced and consideringthe facts and circumstances together with documents

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

produced it appears to me on the balance of probabilities, Iam of the opinion that the Banks’ evidence outweighs theevidence that of Gamage and seems justifiable in thecircumstance. Even an ex gratia payment cannot be madeout to him for the reason that it will naturally end up in travestyof justice.

For the foregoing reasons it is my candid view thatGamage has no claim to meet the ends of justice.

In the premises I make no Award.

I consider this Award as just and equitable in thecircumstances.

T. EDMUND SANTHARAJAN,Arbitrator.

At Colombo,23rd December 2015.

02-544