I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2142$90 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'09'27No. 2142/90 - FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

L.D.B 17/2014

FACTORIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 128)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 of the Factories Ordinance(Chapter 128) read with Section 3 of the aforesaid Ordinance and approved by Parliament.

RAVINDARA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.

Colombo.

Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (Registration of Factories and Approval of Factory Buildings)Regulations No. 1 of 2019.

2. (1) No person shall be the owner or occupier of any factory unless such factory is registered in accordancewith the provisions of these regulations.

(2) No person shall commence -

(a)the construction of a factory building on any site ; or

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 31135— 20 (09/2019)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20192A

(b)the making of any extension or alternation to any factory building ; or

(c)the conversion of any other building into a factory building, unless the plans for such construction,extension or conversion, as the case may be, has been approved by the Chief Factory InspectingEngineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be.

3. Every application for the registration of a factory, the approval of factory buildings and sites, the approval ofany extension or alternation to any factory building or the approval of the conversion of any other building into a factorybuilding shall be made of the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the casemay be, substantially in the Form set out in Schedule I hereto along with the fee specified in Schedule II hereto.

4 (1) Upon receipt of an application for the registration of a factory under regulation 3, the Chief FactoryInspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, if he is satisfied that such factory isin accordance with the requirements, shall register such factory in a Register maintained for such purpose and issue ofCertificate of Registration substantially in the Form set out in Schedule III hereto.

(2) Upon receipt of an application for approval of the factory building and the site, the approval of extensionor alternation to any factory building or the approval of the conversion of any other building into a factory building underregulation 3, the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, if heis satisfied that such factory buildings and sites, extension, alternation or conversion is in accordance with the requirements,shall grant the approval to such factory buildings and sites, extension, alternation or conversion and record such approvalin a Register maintained for such purpose.

5. (1) Where any changes are effected to the nature of work carried out in a factory already registered underthese regulations or any structural changes are effected to a building of a factory already registered under these regulations,the owner or occupier of such factory shall apply for re-registration of such factory within a period of six months fromsuch change.

(2) The preceding provisions of these regulations relating to registration of a factory shall mutatis mutandisapply to any re-registration under paragraph (1) of this regulation.

6. (1) The Register of factories maintained under paragraph (1) of regulation 4 may be amended by the ChiefFactory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer as the case may be, on an application made to himin that behalf by the owner or occupier of such factory specifying the nature of the amendment and the reasons therefor.

(2) Where any changes are effected to the Certificate of Registration, it shall be the duty of the owner or theoccupier of the factory to inform forthwith to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory InspectingEngineer, as the case may be, within on month from the date of such change. Any unauthorized alterations effected to theCertificate of Registration shall render such Certificate invalid. The owner or occupier is responsible for any unauthorizedalternation of the Certificate.

7. (1) Every application under paragraph (1) of regulation 4 or regulation 5 shall be accompanied by thefollowing :-

(a)A flow chart of the manufacturing process together with a brief description thereof ;

(b)plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing -

(i)the site of the factory and immediate surroundings thereof, including the adjacent buildings andother structures, roads and drains ;

(ii)the plan elevation and necessary cross sections of various adjacent buildings indicating allrelevant details relating to natural lighting and ventilation ; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20193A

(iii)the layout of plant and machinery indicating all parts thereof, with directions and exits in caseof fire or emergency ;

(c)such other particulars as required by the Ordinance.

(2) The Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, onbeing satisfied that the requirements as specified in the Factories Ordinance have been complied with, shall, subject tosuch conditions as he may specify, approve the application referred to in paragraph (1) and return to the applicant a copyof plan approved. Where he is not satisfied that the requirements as specified in the Factories Ordinance have beencomplied with, he may call for such other particulars or he may refuse the application giving the reasons therefor.

8. (1) The owner or occupier of any factory which is registered and in operation before the date of coming intooperation of these regulations shall, not later than six months from the date of operation of these regulations apply for re-registration and approval for building plans.

(2) The owner or occupier of a factory which is already in operation and not registered on the day on whichthese regulations come into operation shall register such factory within a period of six-months from the date of cominginto operation of these regulations.

9. (1) The Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 4 of these regulations shall be valid for a period ofthree years from the date of issue of such Certificate. Every application for renewal of a Certificate of registration shallbe made to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or to the District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be,substantially in the Form set out in the Schedule I hereto along with the fee specified in Schedule II hereto six monthsprior to the expiry of the existing Certificate of Registration.

(2) Upon receipt of an application for renewal under paragraph (1) of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer orthe District Factory Inspecting Engineer, as the case may be, if he is satisfied that such factory is in accordance with therequirements, shall renew such Certificate of Registration for another period of three years commencing from the date ofsuch renewal.

10. Any owner or occupier who makes an application for Registration of a factory or renewal of Certificate ofRegistration issued under these regulations, after the due date shall be charged an additional fee of five per centum of the feeas specified in Schedule II hereto.

11. Any person who contravenes the Provision of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20194A

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE I

APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION, RE-REGISTRATION OR APPROVAL OF FACTORYBUILDINGS AND SITES, EXTENSION TO FACTORY BUILDINGS, THE CONVERSION OFOTHER BUILDINGS INTO FACTORY BUILDINGS OR THE RENEWAL OF THE CERTIFICATEOF REGISTRATION OF A FACTORY

Particulars of the factory to be registered

1. Name and address of Factory

Telephone No./Nos. :Fax :

E-mail :

2. Name and address of the owner/occupier :

Business Registration Certificate No./Company Reg. No. & Date :

Telephone Nos. :Fax :

E-mail :

3. Location of Factory :

Parliamentary electorate :

Administrative District :

Local authority area :

Divisional Secretary area/Grama Seva Niladhari Division :

Police Division :

4. Whether the application is for registration or re-registration or approval of factory buildings and sites, theapproval of extension to factory buildings or the approval of the conversion of other buildings into factorybuildings or the renewal of the Certificate of registration of a factory.

5. Details of Documents submitted

(i)Site plan(iv)Sketch showing access roads to the Factory(ii)Building plan(v)Documents related to ownership or lease agreement(iii)Production layout plan(vi)Any other Documents

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20195A

6. Nature of work done in Factory :Be supported by process chart indicating raw material, products and nature of work.

7. Details of Plants installed or to be installed :

8. Type of power used in factory :(e. g. steam, fuel-oil, gas, water or electricity)

Total power used (H. P. or K. W.) :

9. Maximum No. of persons :Males :employed or intended to beFemales :employed in factoryYoung Persons :(14 to 18 yrs of age)

10. Working hours of the Factory (whether on shift basis)

11. Date of commencement/intended date of commencement of work in Factory :

Signature of owner/occupier andseal

Date :.....................................

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20196A

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE II

A-FEES FOR REGISTRATION OF FACTORIES

No. of employeesFee for registrationFee for re-registrationof a factoryof a factory

1-25Rs. 1,000Rs. 1,000

26-125Rs. 3,000Rs. 3,000

126-500Rs. 5,000Rs. 5,000

above 500Rs. 10,000Rs. 10,000

B-FREE FOR APPROVAL OF FACTORY BUILDINGS AND SITES, THE APPROVAL OFEXTENSION TO FACTORY BUILDINGS OR THE APPROVAL OF THE CONVERSION OFOTHER BUILDINGS INTO FACTORY BUILDINGS

Floor area of the factory (m2)Free for approval of factory buildings and sites,the approval of extension to factory buildings orthe approval of the conversion of other buildingsinto factory buildings

Upto 100Rs. 1,000

101-200Rs. 2,000

201-300Rs. 3,000

301-500Rs. 5,000

More than 500Rs. 10,000

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20197A

CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION UNDER THE FACTORIES ORDINANCE

Registration No./re-registration No. :

1.Name and address of Factory :Business Registration Certificate No./Company Reg. No. and date :Telephone No. :

2.Name and address of the Owner/Occupier :Telephone Nos. :

3.Situation of the Factory :Province :District :Town or village :Divisional Secretariat :Electorate :

4.Nature of work done in Factory :

5.Maximum No. of persons :Males :employedFemales :Young persons(14 to 18 yrs of age)

6.Validity Period of the Certificate :Date of issue :Date of Expiry :

This Certificate of Registration is issued subject to the provisions of the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and theregulations made thereunder.

Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer/District Factory Inspecting EngineerSeal.Date :

......................................................................................................................................................................................................................Note : Any change in the above particulars must be notified in the prescribed application within one month. It is an offenceto make any unauthorized alternation to the contents of this Certificate.

10 - 491/1

(Regulation 4)

SCHEDULE III

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20198A

L.D.B 17/2014

FACTORIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 128)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 of the Factories Ordinance(Chapter 128) read with Section 34 of the aforesaid Ordinance and approved by Parliament.

RAVINDARA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.

Colombo.

Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (Registration of Steam Boilers) Regulations No. 2 of 2019.

2. No owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to use any steam boiler in the factory unless a Certificate ofRegistration in respect of such steam boiler is issued by the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District FactoryInspecting Engineer :

Provided however, any steam boiler which is in use in a factory on the date on which these regulations come intooperation shall be registered under these regulations within a period of six months from the date on which these regulationscome into operation.

3. Every application for the registration of any steam boiler as required by the Factories Ordinance (Chapter128) shall be made to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer substantially inthe Form set out in Schedule I hereto along with the fee specified in the Schedule II hereto.

4. Upon receipt of an application under regulation 3, the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District FactoryInspecting Engineer after examination of such steam boiler is satisfied that such steam boiler is in sound condition, shallissue a Cetificate of Registation substantially in the Form set out in Schedule III hereto.

5. (1) Where the ownership of any steam boiler is transferred to another person, it shall be the duty of the ownerof such steam boiler to inform forthwith to the Cheif Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory InspectingEngineer of the transfer of such ownership and the details of the new owner of such steam boiler.

(2) The preceding provisions relating to the registration of any steam boiler shall mutatis mutandis apply tothe new owner of the steam boiler.

6. No person other than the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or the District Factory Inspecting Engineer shallhave the authority to add, delete, amend or alter any entry made in the Certificate of Registration.

7. The owner or occupier of a factory shall cause the steam boiler to be stamped with the followinginformation :-

(a)name and number of the manufacturer ;

(b)model and the serial number of the boiler ;

(c)year of manufacture ;

(d)steaming capacity per hour in lbs or Kgs. ;

(e)maximum permissible working pressure in lbs/in2 or Kg/cm2

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.20199A

8. Owner or occupier of any steam boiler shall keep in his possession and made available for inspection whenrequired by the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer or any Officer acting on his behalf, particulars of manufacturer’scertificate, showing all technical specifications used by the manufacturer and such other documents containing all therecords, designs, dimensions and test reports in accordance with the stamping on the boiler.

9. (1) Any Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 4 of these regulations shall be valid for a period ofthree years from the date of issue of such Certificate of Registration.

(2) Three months prior to the expiry of the existing Certificate of Registration an application for renewal ofsuch Certificate of Registration shall be made substantially in the Form set out in Schedule I hereto along with the feespecified in Schedule II hereto.

(3) Upon the receipt of an application for renewal under paragraph (2), the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer,after examination of such Steam boiler is satisfied that such Steam boiler is in sound condition, shall renew the Certificateof Registration.

10. Every owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to maintain a record book referred to as the “MaintenanceRecord Book” substantially in the Form set out in Schedule IV hereto.

11. The Certificate of Registration and the Maintenance Record Book relating to any steam boiler shall be keptat the premises where such steam boiler is used and shall be made readily available for inspection, to the Chief FactoryInspecting Engineer or any officer on his behalf for examination on request.

12. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201910A

(Regulations 3, 5 and 9)

SCHEDULE I

APPLICATION FORM FOR THE REGISTRATION OR REGISTRATION ON TRANSFER ORRENEWAL OF REGISTRATION OF STEAM BOILERS

1.Full name and address of owner :-

2.Name and address of owner or occupier of the factory :-

3.Name and address of the premises where the steam boiler is installed :

4.Whether applied for

a.Registration of Steam boiler ;

b.Renewal of Registration of Steam boiler ;

c.Registration for Steam boiler on transfer.

5.Date of purchase of the steam boiler and the name of the person from whom it was purchased :-

The name of the previous owner if any of the steam boiler :-

a)Is the steam boiler a new one or a used one :-

b)Date of first commencement of its operation and where it was installed (if known) :-

c)Date of commencing or intended date of commencing of operation in the present premises :-

6.The purpose for which steam is generated :-

7.Name of the manufacturer :-

8.Manufacturing code :-

9.Year of manufacturer :-

10.Type of Steam boiler (e. g. water tube, fire tube, etc.):-

11.Steaming capacity (per hour) :-

12.Manufacturer’s test pressure and the type of test (attach details if any) :-

13.Maximum permissible working pressure :-

14.Mode of construction (e. g. welded, reverted, etc.) :-

15.Type of fuel used :-

16.Location of the boiler (attached a sketch) :-

17.Any other information :

I, .................................................................................................do hereby certify that the particulars furnished byme are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.

Signature of Owner/occupier.

Date :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201911A

For official use only

01.Application No. :-02.Date of receipt of application :-

03.Application fees levied :-04.Recommendation of DFIE/FIE

05.Registration No. assigned by C. F. I. E.

The above application for registration is approved/not approved (if not approved indicate reasons).

06.Validity Period of approval from ....................to..........................

Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer/District Factory Inspecting EngineerSeal.

Date :....................................................

Reasons for not approval

Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer/District Factory Inspecting EngineerSeal.

Date :....................................................

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201912A

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE II

REGISTRATION FEES OF STEAM BOILERS

ClassSteaming capacityRegistration feeFee for renewalRegistration fee(Kg/hour) of boilerof new boilerof registration offor boilerboileron transfer

3Upto 1000Rs. 3,000Rs. 1,500Rs. 2,000

2Above 1000 to 3000Rs. 5,000Rs. 3,000Rs. 4,000

1Above 3000Rs. 7,000Rs. 6,000Rs. 5,000

(Regulation 4)

SCHEDULE III

CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION

Book No. :

Government of Sri Lanka

Certificate of Registration of Boilers

Department of Labour, Sri Lanka

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201913A

(Page 1)

PART - I GENERAL

1. Registration No. :-

2. Maker or manufacturer’s name :-

3. Maker’s No. :-

4. Year of Manufacturer :-

5. Type and approximate dimensions :-

6. Steaming capacity per hour :-

7. Maximum Permissible working pressure :-

8. Type of Fuel :-

9.(a) Manufacturer’s test pressure :-

(b) Material of construction :-

(c) Manufacturer’s Code :-

10. Remarks - Items 2-9 as per particulars in the applicationoff owner/occupier

Registration, re-registration on transfer, renewal of theCertificate of Registration of the above boiler is herebyapproved for a period from .......................... to........................

Signature of Chief FactoryInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date :

(Page 2)

PART - II OWNERSHIP

1. Full name of the owner/occupier :-

2. Address of the owner/occupier :-

3. Address of premises where boiler isinstalled :-

4. Name and address of the user :-

5. Maximum permissible working pressure (asper last test report)

Signature ofSignature of Chief Factory occupierInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date : Date :

1st Transfer

1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-

4. Name and address of user :-

5. Maximum permissible working pressure (asper last test report)

Signature ofSignature of Chief Factoryowner/occupierInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date : Date :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201914A

(Page 3)

PART - II OWNERSHIP

2nd Transfer

1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-

4. Name and address of the user :-

5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per lasttest report)

Signature ofSignature of Chief Factoryowner/occupierInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date : Date :

3rd Transfer

1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-

4. Name and address of the user :-

5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per lasttest report)

Signature ofSignature of Chief Factoryowner/occupierInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date : Date :

(Page 4)

PART - II OWNERSHIP

4th Transfer

1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-

4. Name and address of user :-

5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per lasttest report)

Signature ofSignature of Chief Factoryowner/occupierInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date : Date :

5th Transfer

1. Full name of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

2. Address of the owner/occupier (transferee) :-

3. Address of premises where boiler is installed :-

4. Name and address of user :-

5. Maximum permissible working pressure (as per lasttest report)

Signature ofSignature of Chief Factoryowner/occupierInspecting Engineer/District Factory InspectingEngineer

Date : Date :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201915A

(Regulation 10)

SCHEDULE IV

STEAM BOILER MAINTENANCE RECORD BOOK

01.Name of manufacturer :-

02.Manufacturing Code :-

03.Year of manufacture :-

04.Type of steam boiler (e. g. water tube, fire tube, etc.)

05.Steaming capacity (per hour) :-

06.Manufacturer’s test pressure and the type of test etc. :-

07.Maximum permissible working pressure :-

08.Type of fuel used :-

09.Other relevant information

Authorizationby theoccupier

Period ofnon-use andreasons if theperiod exceedfive (5)months

Name of theBoilerattendent/Class III, II, I

Name of theauthorizedofficer/s

Type of tests/internal andexternalexamination/cleaning andrepairsDate ofcompletionType ofstarting

Date of tests/internalandexternal examinations/cleaning and repairs

10 - 491/2

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201916A

L.D.B 17/2014

FACTORIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 128)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 read with Sections 34, 35,36, 36A, 38 and 38A of the factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and approved by Parliament.

RAVINDARA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.

Colombo,2019.

Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (issue of Certificate for Examination of Steam Boilers andother Pressure Vessels) Regulations No. 3 of 2019.

2. (1) Any person who possesses the qualifications and experience specified in the Schedule I hereto shall beeligible to apply for a certificate for the examination of any steam boiler or other pressure vessel (hereinafter in theseeregulations referred to as the “Certificate”) as requried by the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128).

(2) Any person who has already been issued with a certificate for the examination of any steam boiler or otherpressure vessel shall within six months from the date of operation of these regulations, apply for a new certificate underthese regulations. Any Certificate is sued prior to coming into operation of these regulations shall be deemed to becancelled in the end of six months period from the date of operation of these regulations.

3. Every application for the issue of a Certificate shall be made to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer in theForm set out in Schedule II hereto and the fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto shall be made on the issue of suchCertificate.

4. On receipt of an application under regulation 3, the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer shall on behalf of theCommissioner - General of Labour, summon the applicant thereof for an interview and if he is satisfied with thequalifications and experience and such applicant, may issue a Certificate to such applicant in the Form substantially inSchedule IV hereto.

5. (1) Any Certificate issued under regulation 4, shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of issueof such Certificate and may on an application made by the holder of such Certificate one month prior to the expiration of suchcertificate be renewed for further period of three years from the date of expiration of such Certificate.

(2) The preceding provisions relating to an application for a Certificate under these regulations shall mutatismutandis apply in respect of the application for renewal of such Certificate.

6. Any holder of a Certificate may apply to the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer for the extension of thecertificate issued to him to any other type of a pressure vessel other than the type of the pressure vessel to which theCertificate relates.

7. (1) Where the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer has refused to issue a Certificate or to renew such Certificateor to grant an extension under these regulations, such refusal shall be communicated to the applicant within one monthfrom the date of such decision in writing with reasons therefore.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201917A

(2) In the event where the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer has refused to issue a Certificate or to renew suchcertificate or to grant an extension under these regulations, such applicant shall not be entitled to apply for such issuance,renewal or extension of a Certificate until a twelve months period is lapsed from the date of such refusal.

8. Where proceedings are conducted under Subsection (12) of Section 34 of the Factories Ordinance (Chapter128) against a holder of a Certificate or where the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer has required any holder of a Certificate,a re-examination under Subsection (13) of Section 34 of the Factories Ordinance, the Certificate issued to such personshall be deemed to be suspended until the completion of such proceedings or re-examination as the case may be.

9. In the event where any holder of a Certificate is convicted of any offence under the Factories Ordinance(Chapter 128), a Certificate issued to such person under these regulations shall be deemed to be cancelled with effectfrom the date of such conviction. Such person shall not be entitled to apply for a fresh Certificate under these regulationsuntil a period of seven years is lapsed from the date of such cancellation.

10. Any person who is a holder of a Certificate shall issue examination reports on relevant Forms issued by theDepartment of Labour in triplicate and shall transmit the relevant copy of the Department to the Chief Factory InspectingEngineer or District Factory Inspecting Engineer within one month from the date of inspection.

11. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence under theFactories Ordinance (Chapter 128).

12. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :

“Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the FactoriesOrdinance (Chapter 128) ;

“any other pressure vessel” includes and pressure vessel as specified in Section 35, 36, 36A and 38 of theFactories Ordinance (Chapter 128) ;

“steam boiler” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under the Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201918A

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE I

REQUIREMENTS TO OBTAIN A CERTIFICATE FOR THE EXAMINATION OF STEAM BOILERSAND OTHER PRESSURE VESSELS

01. The age limit of the applicant shall be between 28 years and 75 years.

02. Educational qualifications and the number of years of experience required

Number of years of experience requiredin the relevant field

For steamFor othe PressureboilersVessels

(a) Professionaly qualified Engineer* ;2 years2 years

or

(b) Graduate in Mechanical Engineering ;5 years3 years

or

(c) Persons who possess a valid Certificate5 years3 yearsfor the Examination of Steam Boilersand other Pressure Vessels

* Professionally qualified Engineer means a Mechanical Engineer with corporate membership of the Institute ofEngineers of Sri Lanka, an Engineer with corporate membership of the Institution of Mechanical Engineering (London),or any other institution recognized by Institution of Engineers of Sri Lanka incorporated under the Act, No. 17 of 1968.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201919A

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE II

APPLICATION FOR THE ISSUE, EXTENSION OR RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OFAUTHORIZATION FOR THE EXAMINATION OF STEAM BOILERS AND OTHER PRESSUREVESSLES

1.(a) Certificate applied for(Steam Boilers and other Pressure Vessels/Steam Receivers/Air Receivers/Gas Receivers and Gasholder only*)

(b) Whether applying for new certificate, renewal or extension for other types of Pressure Vessles.

02. Full Name of the Applicant :-

03. Business Address and Telephone No. :-

04. Private Address and Telephone No. :-

05. E-mail :-

06. Date of Birth :-

07(a) Nationality :-

(b) National Identity Card Number :-

08. General Technical Education(in chronological order)

Examinations passed with corresponding dates :-

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

09. Professional Qualifications :-

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

10. Applicant’s designation at place of employment if employed

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201920A

11.(a) Training undergone in the particular field for which certificate applied for :-Give details

(b) Name and address of authorized officer or authority under whom the training was received :-

12. Experience in the field for which the certificate applied for :-

13. Does the applicant hold any certificate issued by the Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer and if so the numberof the Certificate.

14. Area of operation opted for examination of Steam boilers and other Pressure Vessels if a Certificate is issued:-

15. Any other information :-

I certify that the foregoing particulars are true and correct, I am aware that the Cerficate issued to me by theChief Factory Inspecting Engineer is subject to cancellation if the information given under this application were found tobe incorrect.

Signature of Applicant.

Date :

* Delete what is inapplicable.

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE III

FEES FOR THE CERTIFICATE, RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE AND EXTENTION OFCERTIFICATE FOR EXAMINATION OF STEAM BOILERS AND OTHER PRESSURE VESSELS

For steam boilersFor steam receivers/airreceivers/gas/receivers/gas holders (eachpressure vessel)

Fee for the CertificateRs. 5,000Rs. 1,000

Fee for the renewal of CertificateRs. 1,000Rs. 1,000

Fee for the extension of CertificateRs. 4,000Rs. 1,000

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201921A

(Rgulation 4)

SCHEDULE IV

CERTIFICATE FOR THE EXAMINATION OF STEAM BOILERS AND OTHER PRESSURE VESSELSUNDER THE FACTORIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 128)

Certificate No. : .....................................................

Mr. ................................................................................................................................. (NIC No.......................................) ofaddress

................................................................................................................................................................................................ .

is appointed as an Authorized Officer to undertake the examination of under mentioned1 pressure vessels under theFactories Ordinance (Chapter 128).

1.Steam boiler (under section 34 of the Factories Ordinance)

2.Steam receiver (under section 35 of the Factories Ordinance)

3.Air receiver (under section 36 of the Factories Ordinance)

4.Gas receiver (under section 36A of the Factories Ordinance)

5.Gas holder (under section 38 of the Factories Ordinance)

This Certificate is vaild until......................................................

Signature of Chief Factory Inspecting Engineer,Seal

Date :......................................................

10 - 491/3

1. Delete what is inapplicableNote : It is an offence to make any unathorized alteration to the contents of this Certificate

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201922A

L.D.B 17/2014

FACTORIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 128)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 read with Section 58A ofthe Factories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and approved by Parliament.

RAVINDARA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.Colombo.

Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (Protection of Workers from Excessive Noise) RegulationsNo. 4 of 2019.

2. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupier of a factory to provide any person employed in such factory andwho is exposed to a sound pressure level of 85dB (A) or more measured with an integrating sound level meter (slowresponse) with suitable ear protectors an the period of exposure of any person employed in a factory to noise and thepermitted sound pressure levels of such noise during such periods shall be as specified in the Schedule hereto.

Provided that the duration of measurement of any sound pressure level shall be lengthy enough for the resultingnoise exposure level to be representative of the activities performed by the employees. If there are significant variationsof noise level which the workers are exposed to, the sound pressure level of eight hours may be measured with the use of aNoise Dosimeter :

Provided further, that no person employed in any factory at any time be exposed to any impact of noise or to peaksound pressure level of 140 dB(A) or more.

3. Where any employee of a factory is subjeted to a sound pressure level exceeding the sound pressure levels asspecified in the Schedule hereto, the occupier of such factory shall adapt all or any of the following measures to maintainsuch sound pressure level at the permitted sound pressure levels as are specified in the Schedule :-

(a)to reduce the sound pressure level at the source from which the sound emanates through engineeringcontrols by

(i)maintaining the machine in good condition, properly lubricated and replacing the worn or imbalancedparts of the machine ;

(ii)mounting the machine on resilient mounts in order to reduce any vibration ;

(iii)using silencers or mufflers on the noisy parts of machines ;

(iv)shifting into a quiet process ;

(v)confining the sound of the machine to an acoustic enclosure ; and

(vi)isolating the operators of such machines in acoustic booths ;

(b)to carry out a programme of hearing conservation ;

(c)to adapt a feasible administrative control programme.

4. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201923A

5. For the purpose of these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires

“noise” includes any sound automatically, mechanically or electrically produced ;

“feasible administrative control programme” means any programme to reduce the duration of time period withinwhich an employee is exposed to excessive noise ;

“dB(A)” means the unit of measure of sound pressure level ;

“equivalent sound pressure level” means the combined effect of the daily sound level exposure measured by anintegrated sound level meter ;

“an integrated sound level meter” means a sound level meter which integrates and accumulates the total soundenergy over a measurement period and calculates in overage, presenting the results in decibels ;

“Noise Dosimeter” means an instrument which indicates the amount of sound energy absorbed in a given periodfor an individual worker. Such Noise Dosimeter shall be in conformity with the following or equivalentstandards “IEC 61252, ANSI - SI. 25”

“hearing conservation” means to protect an employee exposed to excessive sound from suffering any deteriorationof hearing, through an effective and on-going hearing conservation programme which shall include periodicaudiometric tests on heaving of every employee exposed to noise and the Periodc Sound tests in theworking areas ;

“ear protector” means any suitable device including ear plugs or ear muffs to protect the ears from noise and toobtain necessary attenuation of noise in respect of such device.\(Regulation 2 and 3)Schedule

MAXIMUM PREMISSIBLE SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS

Duration perEquivalent Soundday (in hours)pressure level dB(A) slow/TWA

885

488

291

194

1/297

1/4100

Sound Level meters :

All noise levels (Sound pressure levels) shall be measured with integrated sound level meters of type 1 or type 2 of IEC- 61672-1 (2002-05), IEC - 61672-2 (2003-4), BS EN 61252 : 1997, ANSI 1.25, 1991 (R2002) ANSI 1.4 1983 (R2001) or equivalentstandards with relevant calibration equipments.

10 - 491/4

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201924A

L.D.B 17/2014

FACTORIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 128)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations under Section 105 read with Section 13 of theFactories Ordinance (Chapter 128) and approved by Parliament.

RAVINDARA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Labour and Trade Union Relations.

Colombo.

Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Factories (General Standard of Lighting) Regulations No. 5 of 2019.

2. It shall be the duty of any owner or occupier of any factory to secure and maintain sufficient and suitablelighting in the factory or any part of thereof as may be required due to the nature of work carried out in any place of suchfactory.

3. The owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to maintain in the areas of workplaces specified in Column I of theSchedule hereto the levels of illuminance measured in the horizontal plane at a recommended level of one meter above thefloor, as specified in Column II in the Schedule hereto.

4. (1) The owner or occupier of a factory shall cause to maintain all glazed windows and skylights used for thelighting of workplace, cleaned on both the inner and outer surfaces and free from obstruction from lighting.

(2) Nothing contained in this regulation shall effect the redecoration or shading of windows and skylights, andreposition of workstations for the purpose of mitigating heat, glare or shadows in the workplace.

5. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupier of the factory

(a)where necessary, to provide local artificial lighting at individual work units or work stations and atplaces of particular risks, in order to avoid dazzling, stroboscopic effect and annoying glare or causinghazards including electrical, fire, radiation or collision hazards ;

(b)to ensure the positioning of light switches in a manner that they may be found and used easily andwithout risk ;

(c)to cause the lights to be shaded and so placed as to remove shadows or direct or reflected shiningsurfaces in the workplace causing eye strain.

6. The owner or occupier of the factory shall take necessary steps to provide suitable and sufficient emergencylighting in any workplace of the factory in cirumstances where persons at work and others therein are specifically exposedto danger in the event of failure of artificial lighting, and such emergency lighting shall be operative at all times. In suchcircumstances level of illuminance at those places should not be less than 50 lux.

7. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty of an offence.

8. The Regulations published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 14,577 of December 4, 1965 is hereby rescinded.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.09.201925A

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE

Column IColumn IIArea of workplaceLevel of illuminance

(a) Stores100 to 150 lux

(b) Rough work or heavy work (tasks with limited150 to 300 luxvisual requirements)

(c) Factory including cubicles/rooms of office and300 to 500 luxCashiers, kitchens, class rooms, dining rooms,computer rooms

(d) Factory assembly lines, grinding, sewing, drilling500 to 750 luxenameling, machine work (tasks with normal visualrequirements)

(e) Instrument assembly lines, fine work750 to 1000 lux

(f) Very fine work, Colour matching, fabric inspection1000 to 2000 luxJewellry assembling and repairing (task with specialvisual requirements)

(g) Micro - electronics, watch making etc.2000 to 3000 lux(Prolong tasks that require precision)

10 - 491/5

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.