==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'05PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2016

1A — PG 3219 - 08 (11/2016)This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

w;s úfYI

wxl 1991$57 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 05 jeks fikiqrdod - 2016'11'05No. 1991/57 - SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 05, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

AMENDMENT

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

THE English notification of the order made under section 20 of the Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01of 2000 and 24(2) (1) (xii), (xiii) and 24(3) of the Route Passenger Transport Statute No. 04 of 1992 made under thepowers vested on the Provincial Council in accordance to the Schedule eight of the 13th Amendment to the Constitutionof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification number1990/48 dated 29th of October 2016, is amended as follows.

GAMINI RAJARATNE,Secretary,Ministry of Road Development, Transport,Powers and Energy, Housing and Construction.

Ministry of Road Development,Transport, Powers and Energy, Housing and Construction,04th November, 2016.

“Order made under section 20 of the Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000 and 24 (2)(1) (xii), (xiii) and 24(3) of the Route Passenger Transport Statute No. 04 of 1992 made under the powers vested on theProvincial Council in accordance to the Schedule eight of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'05PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20162A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

In addition to the order made in the Special Gazette Notification No. 1990/27 of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka dated 27th of October, 2016 in respect of the new system of Passenger Transport named “SAHASARA”introduced by the Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority, I Ediriweera Weerawardana, Minister ofCentral Provincial Road Development, Transport, power and Energy, Housing and Construction as per the powers vestedon me under regulations 24(2) (1) (xii), (xiii) of the Route Passenger Transport Statute No. 04 of 1992 and section 20 ofthe regulations of the Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000, hereby order the following and theyshall be effective from the date of publication of this gazette notification.

01.i.The Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority should recognize and declare within a period ofTwelve months from the date of the order of the Minister, all bus routes within its area into separate bus serviceunits incorporating one or more bus routes.

ii.The appointments of a manager for the administration of the new system of bus service units as declared.

iii.To incorporate such units as declared into an Operations Control Centre for the purpose of administration.

02.i.From the date of announcement of the Bus Service Unit by the Central Provincial Passenger Transport serviceAuthority and within such period allowed for the formation of such bus service units, the permit holders who areauthorized to operate such services on such route or routes shall continue to provide bus transport services underthe direction of the Manager appointed by the authority on behalf of such bus service route and to abide by theadvice and time table laid down by the manager from time to time and to render an efficient bus service accordingly.

ii.The Permit Holders shall provide suitable passenger transport by rendering and maintaining an efficient service andspecifically to install and use the GPS equipment, a CCTV camera and the utilization of an electronic fare collectionmachine capable of using pre-paid cards using GPRS technology that will be specified.

iii.All income derived daily shall be credited to an account maintained in the name of the Central Provincial PassengerTransport Service Authority opened for this own purpose in a Government Bank. From this income the cost oftechnical service for prepaid cards shall be deducted and the balance shall be credited to the accounts of the busowners who have supplied buses daily in accordance with the proportion of the cost of supplying the buses.

03.In accordance to the Order No. 01 all route buses in the Central Province shall abide by the regulations set out inthis Gazette from the date of publication.

04.Further, it is declared to nominated not more than eight members to a management advisory committee to rendersuggestions and ideas for the purpose of the development and improvement of the services of a transport unit orseveral such units. This committee shall provide advisory services to increase the income, distribution of income,salaries to employees and a method to secure their social security and bus maintenance.

05.All decision pertaining to the service administration and the standards there of and the introduction of new servicesshall be sole vested with the Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority.

06.(i)The Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority shall appoint auditors qualified in financial andtechnical auditing to audit the declared Bus Service Units.

(ii)The Central Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority shall take necessary action to keep the Audit reportsopen and available for inspection at all time to all permit holder of a transport unit.

(iii)Further, the said Auditor shall forward the said Yearly Audit to the Provincial Council through the relevant Ministerin charge of the subject.”

11-971