==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2118$46 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'04'09No. 2118/46 - TUESDAY APRIL 09, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4479— 10 (04/2019)

SOUTHERN PROVINCE IRRIGATOIN PRECEPT, No. 01 OF 2019

A Precept to make provisions to devise ways and means to plan, implement, activate, supervise, monitorand maintain all irrigation activity, except Southern Province’s inter provincial irrigation schemes andinter provincial lands and irrigation schemes, in order to establish a Southern Provincial IrrigationDevelopment Fund to facilitate such activities and to provide for all related activities in pursuance ofarticle 19 of list 1 in attachment 9 of the 13th amendment to the Constitution of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka.

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Statute of Irrigation bearing No. 01 of 2019 under the Southern Provincial Council

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, WaterSupplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Development of Southern ProvincialCouncil hereby inform to the General Public that the Statute of Irrigation No. 01 of 2019 which had already been approveddated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approval made dated 26.03.2019 by theSouthern Provincial Council is enacted since 01st April, in 2019.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation,Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade &Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial Council.

4th Floor, Dakshinapaya,Labuduwa,Galle,At the Minister’s Office,Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province,On 01st April, 2019.

Prologue

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20192A

Concise Name

Effective date

Establishing theDepartment

This Precept will replace the Irrigation Ordinance No. 32 of 1948 amended by the Irrigation AmendmentAct, No. 1 of 1951, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 48 of 1986, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 37 of1973, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 23 of 1983, Irrigation Amendment Act, No. 34 of 1990 and IrrigationAmendment Act, No. 13 of 1994.

Southern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka will enact as under.

1. This Precept will be known as the Southern Provincial Irrigation Precept No. 01 of 2019.

2. This Precept will be effective from the date it is sanctioned by the Governor of the SouthernProvince

1st Chapter

3. In order to implement the provisions of this Precept, the Southern Provincial IrrigationDepartment (hereinafter known as the ‘Department’) will be established.

(1) Accordingly, for the purpose of exercising the authority this Precept would bestow uponthe Department, a Director shall be appointed in the title of Southern Provincial IrrigationDirector and that director shall be the head of the Department.

(2) To achieve the wider objectives of the department and to expedite the work flow andfacilitate the management, the department will be comprised with as Additional ProvincialDirector, Chief Irrigation Engineer, 3 District Irrigation Engineers, 3 Irrigation Engineersand a supporting staff.

(3) Provisions of Article 32 of the Provincial Council Act, amended by Provincial Council(amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990 shall be relevant in appointing the Provincial IrrigationDirector, Additional Provincial Irrigation Director.

4. The Provincial Irrigation Director should be subject to the general administration and directivesof the Secretary in charge of irrigation.

2nd Chapter

5. The Director shall have the following powers :

(1) To plan and implement the existing irrigation schemes within the province moreproductively.

(2) To plan and implement the new irrigation schemes within the province more productively.

(3) To obtain the corporation of the farmer community towards the rehabilitation, maintenanceand conservation of irrigation systems.

(4) To bring before the law those persons that cause damages to irrigation systems andirrigation reserves. To make necessary charges and complaints.

(5) To map out and declare the irrigation reserves

(6) To prevent and minimize the environmental eventualities that cause dilapidation anddeterioration of the irrigation schemes and to develop environmentally protective schemes.

Appointing a Headof the Department

Compsition of theDepartment

Under the directiveof the Secretary

Powers of theDirector

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(7) To take necessary steps to construct and maintain responsive devices to minimizedestructions cause by floods.

(8) To take required step to effect responsive constructions and maintenance to prevent seawater from flowing in through paddy lands.

(9) To appoint officers to supervise irrigation network Development Committees.

(10) To enter into a particular property as required with prior intimation for an inquiry orinvestigation, in pursuance of the objectives and duties connected to the Precept.

6. The Director shall delegate powers vested in his office to the Additional Director of Irrigationand to the Chief Irrigation Engineer in writing.

7. The scope of work and the objectivity of the Director shall be listed as follows :

(1) The Southern Provincial Director of Irrigation shall identify, documents, map out anddeclare, at Grama Niladhari Level, all types of irrigation systems that fall within the subjectitinerary of the department.

However, if the irrigation systems so declared in the notice warrants changes or newinductions, such changes or inductions should be declared by the Director in concurrencewith the Minister.

(2) The Director should devise the Annual, Short-terms and Long-term plans for newconstructions, rehabilitations, development and conservation of the provincial irrigationschemes.

(3) Should submit the plans prepared to the Provincial Planning Committee or the ChiefSecretary and obtain approval for the plans before those are executed.

(4) Should establish, maintain and register a committee called the irrigation Developmentand Conservation committee at field level for the Provincial Irrigation project.

(5) Should establish, maintain & register, Irrigation Network Development and ConservationCommittee for the whole irrigation network in a way that it represents IrrigationDevelopment and Conservation committees.

3rd Chapter

8. The Director of the Southern Province Irrigation Department should establish an IrrigationConservation & Development Committee at field level for every irrigation development project.

(1) To be appointed as a member of an irrigation conservation & development committee, asperson should possess for following qualifications :

(a) He/She should be a person whose main livelihood is agriculture ;

(b) He/She should be a person of not less than 18 years of age ;

Delegation of theDirector’s powers

The Director’sobjectives and thescope of work

Establishingcommittee at the‘field level’membershipQuoram,Constitutioin andthe workobjectives

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20194A

(c) Should be either a permanent resident or a person engaged in agriculture for a periodof two years or more in the area under the purview of the Irrigation Conservation &Development Committee in which you aspire to be member.

(2) To be appointed as an Associated member of a Irrigation Conservation & DevelopmentCommittee, a person should possess the following qualifications.

(a) Even though not a person whose main livelihood is agriculture he/she should be, aresident, owner or a person in possession of an agricultural land in the area underthe purview of the committee in which you aspire to be member.

(b) Should be a person engaged in the dealership/marketing of goods related toagriculture or agricultural produce.

(3) With approval of the Southern Provincial Agriculture Director and in concurrence withthe membership of the subject committee, the Agricultural Instructor of the area couldbe appointed as the consultant of the relevant Irrigation Conservation & DevelopmentCommittee.

(4) A committee so appointed should have 1/3rd of its membership in attendance to make aquoram at a committee meeting.

(5) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should function under aconstitution approved by the Director.

9. The duties of an irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should be as follows

(1) Every Irrigation Conservation & Development Committee should bring to the notice ofthe department all maintenance activities associated with Water cascades, Tanks, Anicuts,Brooks and Water Bubbles, within the area of its purview and execute those under thesupervision of the department.

(2) Ensure that all irrigation management activities of the area are done properly and in time.

(3) Ensure that the corporations necessary for efficient management of water supplied byirrigation works and used in agricultural activities are obtained through the relevantinstitutions.

(4) To render necessary assistance and encouragement to the agricultural organizations togrow paddy or alternative crops in the paddy and agricultural lands as suitable.

(5) To render necessary assistance and prompting to the agricultural associations to performthe customs and traditions associated with paddy and other cultivations.

(6) To initiate activity to conserve the soil by safeguarding it from disease and pesticides.

10.(1) With the consent of the majority in the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committeea person should be appointed as the Field Level Agent (Yaya Neyojitha) and that agentcould be either a member or an office bearer of the Irrigation Conservation &Development Committee.

(2) The Field level representative appointed could continue to hold office for three yearsunless the appointment is cancelled.

Qualifications ofan Associatedmember

Duties of anIrrigatioinConservation &DevelopmentCommittee

Appointment of a‘Field LevelAgent’ and theperiod of Office

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

11. The Office of the field level representative appointed as per article 10 above may fall vacant in thefollowing situations.

(1) The death of the field level representative.

(2) A letter of resignation sent to the Director or which the Director has responded statingthat the resignation has been accepted.

(3) Removal by the Director or revelations of inefficiency and irregularities as a result of aninvestigation sanctioned by the Director.

(4) By a proposal carried with a 2/3rd majority of the Irrigation Conservation & DevelopmentCommittee.

12.(1) An appeal, connected to removals affected under clause (2) and (3) of article 11 could bemade in writing to the Secretary by the person subjected to the removal within 30 days ofsuch removal, and the ruling issued by the secretary on such an appeal should be final.

(2) Accordingly, when appeal is made as per clause (1) of this article, the IrrigationConservation & Development Committee should refrain from appointing an alternativerepresentative until a ruling is given by the Secretary or until 30 days lapse from the dateof removal.

13. The duties of a field level representative should be as follows :

(1) To protect the irrigation works in the area within his/her purview and to extend cooperationto the department to bring before law those causing damages to the irrigation works, totake necessary steps to conserve water issued by irrigation tanks and other irrigationsystems and to assist and direct in the conduct of agriculture activity in keeping withplanned Agri-Timetables.

(2) To take necessary action at any required moment in keeping with the paddy lands registerof the area within his/her purview, maintained by the Agrarian Development Department.

(3) To hand over the facility to use water the main irrigation bund and the main water subdivision according the entitled share based on, sowing extent and due share of eachlandowner or custodian listed as per the Paddy Field register of the Agrarian DevelopmentDepartment and to enter in to a written agreement with the parties concerned on theprocess required to effect such handing over.

(4) To mark the boundaries with the assistance of the Director on a suitable system based onthe partitions made for each landowner custodian by the Field Level Agent (Yapa Niyojitha).

(5) To ensure that the irrigation section marked for each party is devoid of shrubs and weedsand that the channel bunds washed away are rehabilitated with the help of soil brought,either from the reservation area or from outside and that those are maintain properly &suitably.

14.(1) If any activity is being carried out in breach of the agreement reached as per clause (3) ofarticle 13., the Field Level Agent should report such situations to the Director.

Resignation &Removal of theField Level Agent

Appeals againstremoval

Duties of the fileldlevel agent

The Directorreportingviolations to aMagistrate

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20196A

(2) In the event of a reporting to the Director as stated in clause (1) above, the Director or anofficer duly empowered by the Director, may issue a 7-day notice to the party that is inviolation. If the party in violation still continues to refrain from rehabilitating andmaintaining his/her share of the channel portion, the director may report the matter to aMagistrate in a Magistrate court that has jurisdiction over the area, and the Magistratemay summon the concerned party on such reporting and issue a suitable ruling to ensurethat the principal maintenance work is accomplished.

4th Chapter

15. An Irrigation Network Development Committee comprising of representatives of IrrigationConservation & Development Committee and based on the physical location of the irrigationprojects should be established covering an irrigation network.

16.(1) From among the Field Level Agents who represent Irrigation Conservation & DevelopmentCommittee, three representatives should be appointed as the President, Secretary and theTreasurer by the members.

(2) The members of every Irrigation Network Development Committee should appoint asuitable executive committee comprising of a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer beingpermanent office bearers and other members not exceeding four.

(3) In the event of an office of the committee failing vacant, until a suitable Field LevelAgent “Yaya Niyojithaya” is elected by a vote of members, the Director should appoint asuitable member representing the committee to carry out the duties of that office.

(4) In a situation where some opposition has arisen with regard to the activities of the officeof a particular officer of the Irrigation Network Development Committee, the membersof the committee may forward a proposal with the consent of 2/3rd of the members toremove that officer from office to the Director. The Director should take suitable actionin such a situation.

17. The duties of the Irrigation Network Development Committee should be as follows :

(1) To work towards the conservation of its own irrigation network.

(2) To present proposals and ideas at rehabilitation and development activities to give priorityto irrigations works of the network.

(3) To protect all irrigation reserves and catchment areas located within the network.

(4) To assist in the protection of all irrigation systems and water works areas within thenetwork.

(5) As per the provincial Irrigation department’s approved network plan, to assist the officersof the department to protect the reserves and the characteristic manifestations that shouldbe present within the network.

18. The Director should register every Irrigation Network Development Committee.

19.(1) Every Irrigation Network Development Committee should maintain an account in its name,in a commercial bank recognized by the Government.

Establishing anIrrigation Network& DevelopmentCommittee.

Composition ofthe IrrigationNetworkDevelopmentCommittee.

Duties of theIrrigation NetworkDevelopmentCommittee

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(2) The account maintained by the committee should be audited by a person empowered by theDirector and report of that audit meant for every financial year should be forwarded to theDirector by the President of the committee before the 31st March of the year following thefinancial year.

20. No person should release irrigation water under an irrigation project towards a commercialpurpose which is not agricultural.

However, if the Director grants permission for water to be released for a commercial enterprisewhich is not agricultural, the fees chargeable for such release of water should be in keepingwith the directives issued under this precept.

5th Chapter

21. To facilitate the activities aimed at achieving the objectives of this Precept, a fund titled theProvincial Irrigation Development Fund would be established herewith.

22.(1) The Fund established under article 21 above should be a corporation by its name havingperpetual succession and a common seal with the capacity to sue and be sued under itsname.

(2) Provincial Irrigation Development Fund (hereinunder known as the Fund) should beconstituted with an administrative board comprising the following members appointed byvirtue of the office they hold.

(a)The Secretary to the subject Minister of the Southern Provincial Council

(b)Deputy Chief Secretary (Planning) of the Southern Province

(c)Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) of the Southern Province.

(d)Director of Irrigation Southern Province

(e)Director of Agriculture - Southern Province

(3) The Secretary to the Ministry shall be the Chairman of the Fund

(4) The Secretary of the Fund shall the Chief Irrigation Engineer of the Southern Province.

(5) The Accounts of the Fund should be prepared by the Chief Accountant of the departmentsubject to the administration of the Secretary to the Fund.

23. The objectives of the Fund should be as follows :

(1) The accomplish the maintenance, operations, development and rehabilitation activitiesof the irrigation projects in the area in a more efficient manner.

(2) To conduct research and development activity connected to the field of Irrigation.

(3) To control the disasters caused by floods and sea water more effectively

(4) To provide facilities for the conservation of irrigation reserves

Use of irrigatedwater for apurpose otherthan agriculture.

Institution of theProviincialIrrigationDevelopmentFund.

The objective ofthe Fund.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20198A

(5) To improve the human resources of the Irrigation Conservation & Development Committeesand the Irrigation Network Development Committees.

24. The scope and authority of the Fund should include the following.

(1) To hold, dispose, purchase, lease or sell property

(2) To enter into agreements with outside parties on whatever activity that contribute towardsfurtherance of the Fund’s objectives.

(3) To identify, sanction and implement the projects that are within the objectives of theFund, whatever their form and content may be, and to procure the required resources andconsultancy at implementation.

(4) To procure and obtain all physical resources and services that are required in theimplementation of activities designed in furtherance of the objectives of the fund.

(5) To prescribe the human effort required in various activities conducted in furtherence ofthe objectives of the Fund and to meet such expenditure.

(6) To initiate activity that falls in line with the precept and to meet all expenditure inconnection with such activity or on item that needs to be discharged in the interest of thefund and the precept.

25. The receipts to the Fund would be from following sources.

(1) Fees charged for supplying irrigated water to commercial purposes other than agriculture.

(2) Monies sanctioned by the Government from time to time as aid.

(3) Monies sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council for activities of the fund

(4) Monies received as donation from individuals, institutions or organizations for thedevelopment of irrigation facilities in the area.

(5) Monies levied as service fees by the committees.

(6) Monies collected through exhibitions, lotteries and such customary avenues.

26. Expenditure met by the Fund would as follows :

(1) Any item of expense connected to an activity that is in furtherance of the objectives ofthis Precept.

(2) Expenses incurred in the discharge of obligations under the agreements entered in to inthe name of the Fund and expenses connected to the purchase of goods and obtaining ofservices in the name of the Fund.

(3) Expenses connected to payment for human endeavours and other payments in connectionwith services supplied for the Fund.

(4) Expenses incurred in the discharge of whatever responsibilities connected to the Fund.

Scope andAuthority of theFund

Receipts to theFund

Expenses of Fund

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

27. All Current and other accounts in favour of the Fund should be maintained at a bank approved bythe government.

28. The financial year for the transactions of the Fund should be a calendar year from 1st Jan. to31st December and the Secretary to the Funds should prepare accounts of the Fund for everyfinancial year and submit same before 31st March of the following year to the Chief Secretary.

29. The auditing of the accounts of the Fund should be in keeping with the provisions of theconstitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

(1) The Annual report prepared by the Secretary to the Fund on administration and maintenanceof accounts of the Fund for every calendar year should be submitted to the AdministrativeBoard of the Fund before the 31st May of the year following, and the report approved bythe Board should be submitted to the Minister before the 30th June of that year.2

(2) The Administrative report on the Fund presented to the Minister, accompanied by a copyof the Audited Accounts of the year and a copy of the Auditor General’s report on theaccounts, should be presented to the Southern Provincial Council with the approval of theBoard of Ministers of the Southern Provincial Council.

6th Chapter

30. It is an offence to commit the following acts under this precept.

(1)(a) To obstruct the activities conducted under the precept.

(b) To disturb the activities conducted under the precept.

(c) To place the activities of the Precept in confinement without due approval.

(d) To cause the activities of the precept to be disturbed or confined.

(e) To permit the waste of water collected either intentionally of with malice.

(f) To cut down trees.

(g) To construct unauthorized constructions.

(h) To carry out unauthorized cultivations.

(2) To remove or cause to remove, without due permission, sand or mineral sands, from, atank, a stream in the catchment area, an irrigation works, a waterway, a tank access, a dam,a conservation, a bund, a river bank or an irrigation reserve.

(3) To allow or cause to allow any waste matter to be released to, an irrigation works, astream, a waterway or a paddy land or to wash machines or vehicles in such a way to makethat happen.

(4) To construct a tank, to dig a waterway or to construct a structure without the writtenpermission of the Director.

(5) To release animals or livestock to roam free causing damages to an irrigation system,stream, waterway or to an irrigation reserve.

Maintaining theFund accounts &their Auditing

Offences.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201910A

(6) To carry out agricultural activity in the reservation areas of the tank without due permissionin writing from the Director.

(7) To grow paddy, other irrigable crops or to multi-crop without permission, against theagreement on the crops reached at the cultivation term meeting held.

(8) To conduct the affairs of one’s activity in a way that does unduly impinge on the rights ofothers by such activity.

31. A person pronounced guilty of any of the above offenses, except on clause (2) of article 30above, by a Magistrate Court, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less thanRs. 10,000 not exceeding Rs. 50,000 or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and notexceeding 12 months, or a penalty instituted in combination of both.

32. A person pronounced guilty of an offence under clause (2) of article 30 above, by a MagistrateCourt, should be subjected to a penalty of, either a fine not less than Rs. 50,000 and not exceedingRs. 100,000 or a term of imprisonment not less than 6 months and not exceeding 12 months ora penalty instituted in a combination of both.

33. The Minister should enact directives on account of all instances where the precept states, ‘thatthe Minister is required to do so’ and also on account of all matters where it is required to do soin the attainment of the objectives of the precept.

34. All officers of the department should be considered as public servants in terms of the definitiongiven in the penal code.

35. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions ofthis Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.

36. Unless an alternative definition is required, the following terms used in this precept shouldmean as below.

(1) “Provincial Council” should mean the Southern Provincial Council.

(2) “Minister” should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Irrigation in the SouthernProvincial Council.

(3) “Secretary” should mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of Irrigation in theSouthern Province.

(4) “Provincial Irrigation Department” or the “department” should mean the SouthernProvincial Department in charge of Irrigation.

(5) “Additional Provincial Director” should mean the Deputy Head of the Southern ProvincialDepartment of Irrigation.

(6) “Paddy Lands” as per the definition given in this Precept, should mean Lands that arebeing used, or lands that have the potential to be used, for cultivation of paddy and thismay include lands that have been dispossessed under the Private Lands and LandDevelopment Ordinance, Government Land Ordinance or under any other such Act.

Definitions

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(7) “Field” should mean any part of the cultivable land that has been sanctioned by theSouthern Provincial Department of Irrigation either by naming or by use of the same.

(8) “Custodian” should mean the owner, or the leasehold owner, of the land or any otherperson engaged in the cultivation of the land for agricultural purpose such as the ‘Angda’cultivator and also include those who use or are in custody of lands dispossessed underthe Land Development Ordinance or any such other ordinances.

(9) “Irrigation Tank” should mean one or more irrigation areas comprising of, reservations,streams, canals and paddy fields legitimately included in the Agricultural Land owners’register.

(10) “Cascade or Irrigation Network” should mean one or more irrigation areas comprisingof, irrigated creations, catchment areas collecting water, reservations, streams, canalsand paddy fields, that revolves around a stream of water that spawns from a specific slopingarea flowing downstream in one direction, overflowing due to rain and flowing down,collected finally before it reaches a river or a main river by an irrigation construction thatenables the control and management of such water.

(11) “Service Fees” should mean a sum of money levied by the Irrigation Developmentcommittee on the basis of units of water being a contribution made to a Fund enacted asper the rules and regulations by the Minister in charge of the subject, in keeping with thisPrecept, to carry out rehabilitation and maintenance work of the networks of minorirrigations, small tanks, streams bunds etc. for their providence when the monies due forsuch activity from the Government or from the Provincial Council is either not receivedor is delayed.

(12) “A Share” should mean an irrigation share entitlement of the water way or a main channelcalculated in proportion to the ratio of farmers and the area of paddy lands listed in thepaddy land register, in a minor irrigation scheme or a plot of paddy lands that have obtainedirrigated water.

(13) Irrigation reserve is a part of the irrigation network. It is an area of land determined asrequired by the Director, either in connection with any activity of providence of a Canal,Waterway, Tank, Agri-road or any other such related item or an area required toaccommodate additional water in a flood situation or an area required for the purpose ofparking and accommodating the machinery used by the workers and for the use of workers.

04 - 894

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.