PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

————————

[Bill No. 249]

————————

Presented by the Hon. (Prof.) Charitha Hearath , M.P.on 02nd of April, 2024

(Published in the Gazette on March 15, 2024)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

2-2d

2-

——————

This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Ww

ws

SIW WANAK ARANA FOUNDATION(INCORPORATION)

to incorporate the Siw Wanak Arana Foundation

Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)1

5

10

15

20

Short title

Incorporationof the SiwWanak AranaFoundation

Preamble

25

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SIW WANAK ARANAFOUNDATION

WHEREAS A Foundation called and known as the “SiwWanak Arana Foundation ” has heretofore been formed in SriLanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out andtransacting all objects and matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by the members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was formed and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantsuch application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Siw Wanak AranaFoundation (Incorporation) Act, No. of 2024.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the“Siw Wanak Arana Foundation” (hereinafter referred to asthe “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as membersof the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporatewith perpetual succession under the name and style of “SiwWanak Arana Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued andhave full power and authority to have and use a common sealand alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The general objects for which the Coporation isconstituted are hereby declared to be:–

( 1)to conduct motivation programmes to encourageschool children;

Generalobjects of thecorporation

2Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

Managementof the affairsof theCorporation

25

(2)implementation of enviromental protection schemes;

(3)to promote peace,goodwill, understanding andcooperation among all communities and people ofSri Lanka;

(4)to give assistance to develop worship places;

(5)to establish information technology centers for theadvanancement of scienific studies; and

(6)to work towards to protect and develop all rights ofwomen and children.

4. (1) The of the affairs of the Corporation shall, subjectto the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force forthe time being of the corporation be administered by aCommittee of Management consisting of not more thaneleven members including Chairman, Secretary, Treasurerelected in accordance with such rules.

(2) The first Committee of Management shall consist ofthe members of the Committee of Management of thefoundation holding office on the day immediately precedingthe date of commencement of this Act.

5.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts, matters and thingswhatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotionor furtherance of all and any object of the Corporation orany one of them, including the power to open, operate andclose bank accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with orwithout security or collect or accept grants and donations,to invest its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss officersand servants required for the carrying out of the objects ofthe corporation.

GeneralPowers of theCorporation

30

Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)3

5

10

15

20

25

6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time totime, at any General Meeting of the members and by amajority of not less than two thirds of the members presentto make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of thisAct or any other written law, on all or any of the followingmatters:-

(a)the classification of members, and the admission,withdrawal, resign, expulsion of members;

(b)the election of office bearers, the resignation from,vacation of or removal from office bearers and theirpowers, conduct and duties;

(c)the election of the members of the Committees ofthe Management and its powers, conduct duties andterm of the committee members;

(d)the powers, conduct, duties and functions of thevarious officers, agents and servants of Corporation;

(e)the procedure to be observed at and the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ofManagement or Sub Committee and of the time,places, notices and agenda of such meetings, thequorum thereof and the conduct of business thereof;

(f)the administrations and management of the propertyof the Corporation, the custody of its funds and themaintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g)the management of the affairs of the corporation,and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner as a rule made under subsection (1).

Rules of theCorporation

4Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

25

Debts due byand payableto theFoundation

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject tothe rules of the Corporation.

7.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the daypreceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall bepaid and discharge by the Corporation hereby constitutedand all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payableto the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporationfor the purposes of this Act.

8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and allmonyes heretofore or hereafter to be received by way ofgifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees orgrants for and on account of the corporation shall be depositedto the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as theCommittee of Management shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray any expenditure incurred by theCorporation in the exercise, performance and discharge ofits powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law toacquire and hold any property, movable and immovablewhich may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise andall such property shall be held by the Corporation for thepurposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporationmade under section 6, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

10.If upon the dissolution of the Corporation thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the Corporation, but shallbe given or transferred to some other institution orinstitutions having objects similar to those of the Corporationand which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among their members.

30

Fund of theCorporation

Corporationmay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)5

5

10

15

20

25

11.(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transaction of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited inevery year by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditorappointed by the Auditor-General.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means–

(a)An individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practice as an Accountant, issued by the Councilof such Institute; or

(b)A firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka, or any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

12.The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed toany instrument whatsoever except in the presence of twomembers of the Committee of Management, who shall signtheir names to the instrument in token of their presence andsuch signing shall be independent of the signing of any personas a witness.

13.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, orcorporate or of any other persons.

Audit andaccounts oftheCoporation

Seal of theCorporation

Saving of theRights of theRepublic andothers

6Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)

14.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistancy

Siw Wanak Arana Foundation (Incorporation)7

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING