==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2018

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Government Notifications

w;s úfYI

wxl 2103$34 - 2018 foieïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'12'28No. 2103/34 - Friday, DECemBER 28, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

1A - G 28932 — 400 (12/2018)

The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

Notification

Whereas, I have in the exercise of powers vested in me in terms of paragraph (2) of Article 44 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka determined the assignment of subjects and functions and Departments, Public Corporations & Statutory Institutions to the Ministers, who shall not be members of the Cabinet of Ministers.

It is now hereby notified that the subject and functions and Departments, Public Corporations & Statutory Institutions in charge of said Ministers who shall not be members of the Cabinet of Ministers shall be as set out in the Schedule given below, from the date of this Notification. Maithripala Sirisena, President.

Presidential Secretariat,Colombo 01,24th December, 2018.

hq;f mOj;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20182A

Schedule

(1) Non Cabinet Minister of Digital Infrastructure and Information Technology

Column I

Duties & Functions

Column II

Departments, Statutory Institutions & Public Corporations

Column III

Laws and Ordinance to be Implemented 1. Formulation of policies, programmes and projects; implementation, monitoring and evaluation in relation to the subject of Digital Infrastructure and Information Technology, and those subjects that come under the purview of Statutory Institutions and Public Corporations listed in Column II

2. Take necessary measures for the provision of digital infrastructure facilities for all by adoption of modern technologies

3. Facilitate and supervise digital transformation initiatives for promoting productivity and efficiency in the delivery of services by the public sector organizations, statutory organizations and other public enterprises through cross-government digitalization strategies

4. Implementation of programmes for promotion of digital literacy

5. Development of strategies to encourage and increase the use of information and communication technologies in all segments of the society, and co-ordinate and facilitate the digital economy initiatives in partnership with the private sector

6. Facilitate the promotion of industries of the information and communication technologies

7. Matters related to cyber security incident response and prevention by operationalizing the National Point of Contact and providing the necessary technical support to law enforcement agencies in digital forensic investigations

8. Digital infrastructure security auditing and managed cyber security services

1. Information and Communication Technology Agency of Sri Lanka and its subsidiaries

2. Sri Lanka Computer Emergency Readiness Team (Sri Lanka CERT)

3. All Information Technology Parks

• Information and Commu-nication Technology Act, No. 27 of 2003

• Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006

• All other legislations pertaining to the subjects specified in Column I and II, and not specifically brought under the purview of any other Minister.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2018

3A

Column I

Duties & Functions

Column II

Departments, Statutory Institutions & Public Corporations

Column III

Laws and Ordinance to be Implemented 9. Co-ordinate and facilitate international collaboration in digital infrastructure and information and communication technology development

10. Matters relating to all other subjects assigned to Institutions listed in Column II

11. Supervision of the Institutions listed in Column II

(2) Non Cabinet Minister of Science, Technology & Research

1. Formulation of policies, programmes and projects; monitoring and evaluation in regard to the subjects Science, Technology & Research, and those subjects that come under the purview of Departments, Statutory Institutions and Public Corporations listed in Column II

2. Provision of necessary facilities for local research and discoveries to fall in line with new discoveries made in research conducted in the fields of science and technology internationally

3. Improving science, technology and innovations for a knowledge based economic development

4. Adoption of measures to expand scientific, technical, social and economic research and development activities

5. Provision of facilities to research and research institutes to plan and conduct research

6. Provision of information on findings and knowledge from new research and discoveries, including nano, robotic, machatronic and biotechnology, to relevant stakeholders including the business community

1. Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (Pvt.) Ltd.

2. National Institute of Fundamental Studies

3. National Science Foundation

4. National Science and Technology Commission

5. Planetarium

6. Arthur C. Clarke Centre for Modern Technology

7. Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for Conformity Assessment

8. Sri Lanka Standard Institute

9. Sri Lanka Inventors’ Commission

10. Inventors’ Fund

11. National Engineering Research and

Development Centre

12. National Research Council

13. National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka

• Science and Technology

Development Act, No. 11 of 1994

• Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005

• Sri Lanka Standard Institute Act, No. 6 of 1984

• Sri Lanka Inventors

Incentives Act, No. 53 of 1979

• Institute of Fundamental

Studies, Sri Lanka Act, No. 55 of 1981

• Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003

• National Institute of Technical Education of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

• All other legislations pertaining to the subjects specified in Column I and II, and not specifically brought under the purview of any other Ministry and remaining currently in force.

(1) Non Cabinet Minister of Digital Infrastructure and Information Technology (Contd.)

Schedule (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20184A

7. Activities related to establishment of standards and administration

8. Provision of technical assistance to research programmes conducted by research institutions under the purview of other Ministries

9. Adoption of measures to guide and motivate the community towards new discoveries

10. Introducing science, technology and innovations to the community and creating related entrepreneurs

11. Actively contributing to achieving national development objectives through co-ordinating all research institutions functioning in Sri Lanka

12. Co-ordinating with international science, technological and research institutions and implementing co-operative programmes

13. Achieving economic progress by launching programmes of science, technology and research through bilateral and multilateral co-operation with various countries

14. Implementation of research for the promotion and development of construction industry

15. Matters relating administration of the

International Convention on Intellectual Property and functions relating to World Intellectual Property Office

16. Matters relating to all other subjects assigned to Institutions listed in Column II

17.Supervision of the Organizations listed in Column II

14. Industrial Technology Institute

15. Blue Green Growth Secretariat

16. Co-ordinating Secretariat of

Science Technology & Innovation

17. Timber-related design centre

18. Centre of excellence for Robotic Applications

19. Vidatha Centres

Column I

Duties & Functions

Column II

Departments, Statutory Institutions & Public Corporations

Column III

Laws and Ordinance to be Implemented

(2) Non Cabinet Minister of Science, Technology & Research (Contd.)

Schedule (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2018

5A

(3) Non Cabinet Minister of Public Distribution and Economic Reforms

Column I

Duties & Functions

Column II

Departments, Statutory Institutions & Public Corporations

Column III

Laws and Ordinance to be Implemented 1. Formulation of policies, programmes and projects; monitoring and evaluation in regard to the subjects of Public Distribution and Economic Reforms, and those subjects that come under the purview of the institute listed in Column II

2. Introduction of macro economic reforms to be carried out in order to achieve economic objectives of Sri Lanka and introduction of strategic approaches capable of implementing such reforms

3. Assisting National Economic Council in structural reforms to be carried out in the National Economy in co-ordination with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and all Ministries

4. Proposing short term, mid term and long term strategic reforms in the enhancement of gross domestic product and per capital income in co-ordination with all relevant institutions

5. Initiating action in collaboration with international agencies in order to secure technological and financial aid required for introduction of economic reforms

6. Formulating proposals for sustainable economic development by introduction of blue green economic strategies

7. Introduction of strategies for the management of cost of living

8. Introduction of strategic schemes for eradication of unemployment

9. Introduction of socio-economic reforms in the alleviation of poverty in Sri Lanka

10. Catering to common, essential urgent requirements and delivering of urgent supply services of the community efficiently

1. Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka• Policy Studies Institute of

Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1988

• All other legislations pertaining to the subjects specified in Column I and II, and not specifically brought under the purview of any other Ministry and remaining currently in force.

Schedule (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20186A

Column I

Duties & Functions

Column II

Departments, Statutory Institutions & Public Corporations

Column III

Laws and Ordinance to be Implemented 11. Co-ordinating the delivering of essential public supply services in the event of the occurrence of disasters and emerging situations

12. Introducing modern technologies for productive public distribution

13. Matters relating to all other subjects assigned to Institutions listed in Column II

14. Supervision of the Organizations listed in Column II

(3) Non Cabinet Minister of Public Distribution and Economic Reforms (Contd.)

Schedule (Contd.)

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.