==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1959$9 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 23 jeks nodod - 2016'03'23No.1959/9 - WEDNESDAY MARCH 23, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

EASTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Rules and Regulations issued under the provisions of Eastern Province Passenger Transport AuthorityOrdinance No. 2 of 2009

I, do hereby publish the above notice of rules and regulations as per authority vested to me under the provisions of EasternProvince Passenger Transport Authority Ordiance No. 02 of 2009, sentences 30(1), 30(2)(i), (ii), (iii).

Z. A. NAZEER AHAMED,Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning,Law and Peace, Provincial and Divisional Administration,Rural Development, Tourism and Environment,Buildings and Constructions, Transport and Rural Industry and Housing

1. I do hereby furnish the Eastern Province Passenger Transport Authority orders instituted as per article No. 2 of2009 enactments sentences 30, (1), 30, (2), (i), (ii), (iii), And this article is to be named as orders for Preparationof Time Tables for Passenger Transport and bringing it into effect and Management of Bus Stand. These orderswill be enforced from first December 2015.

2. Preparation of Time Table

2.1 This service will be implemented to a “General Time Table” prepared by the Passenger Transport Authorityconstituted considering the request of the bus passengers within Eastern Province with other necessaryrequirements. According to this General Time Table a program will be launched and implemented to maketransport service to meet the requirements of the passengers in a specified route or area in turn the wholeday. Through this program the requirements of the passengers of the respective routes and areas has to befulfilled satisfactorily and it is expected to curb the harmful competition and perform an efficient serviceand implement a General Time Table amongst drivers and the authority endure to provide equitable turnsfor drivers.

2.2 The Passenger Transport Authority has the power to amended the General Time Table according the changesof the passenger requests, timely requirements and administrative facilities, efficient services and foramalgamation of town services, for the safety of the passengers and a supply more facilities to the public.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.20162A

2.3 If there are requests for additional bus services out of the General Time Table, and if the respectiveservice is considered essential for a qualitative and efficient service the Eastern Province PassengerTransport Authority has the power to grant an special approval for it.

2.4 The Passenger Transport Authority has the power to make arrangements beyond the General Time Table toprovide School Services to transport pupils, Office Transport, and Special Services for Night and MorningServices with any other names and Postal Services and other Special Transport Services separated fromthe General Time Table.

2.5 While preparing the time table, the Passenger Transport Authority is empowered to select the routes,decide the destination, Name the route numbers, preparing the bus fare of passengers, checking the drivingtime and deciding the driving duration period, observation of passengers, deciding the demand of people,re-planning and amendment of services when and where necessary. The necessary criterions necessaryfor such activities will be formed by the Passenger Transport Authority as regulations.

2.6 While implementing new services it is the responsibility of the authority to decide whether is is necessaryto provide a state bus service or a private bus service according to the nature of request and transportcapabilities, The transport suggestions are to be submitted according to assessments of new routes andinformation and measures are to be implemented considering the respective suggestions.

2.7 If a Passenger Transport Authority of any other Province, or any other authority that provides license fortransport services of National Transport Commission intends to issue a license to a bus for transportservices such authority has to obtain written permission from the Eastern Province Transprot Authorityfor such effect. Such services shall not be a hindrance to the General Time Table and it is the responsibilityof the authority issues license for same and the responsibility of the drivers to ensure that there is noharmful competency. Action will be initiated to suspend creating harmful competency with prevailingGeneral Time Tables and services or possibility of creating such situations, or arising conflict with theprevaling other services or the possibility of arising such conflicts, or causing forceful impact on incomeof other running services and permanent or temporary inter Provincial Services.

3. Implementation of Time Tables

3.1 Each and every bus transporting passengers has to process a valid license issued by the authority indicatingthe number of the bus stating the number of running turns, time to enter and exit the bus terminal, datesthe time table will be effective with other necessary information. And it is to be produced for inspectionwhen requested to do so.

3.2 While implementing time tables more attention has to be drawn to the most necessity issue and discusswith the parties involved in running schedules and implement the time table. If there are controversiesover the time tables such matters has to be bring to the notice of the authority, and it should be revivedafter running two weeks and the authority has to implement necessary action to make necessary amendments.

3.3 The license holder has to run the bus according to the time table of the respective bus and should not runchanging the time table without the prior written approval of the authority without a sudden block on theway or instructions of officers on duty. Services stated in the time table should not be terminated half wayor commenced half way.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.2016

3.4 A driver should not refuse or neglect implementing a time table prepared and approved by the authority.

3.5 The main function of the point controllers and the time keepers are to administer whether all the runningturns are maintained according to the respective days of the time table in each and every route. If theappointed buses are not arrived on any grounds the reduced running turns are to be functioned withstandby buses or with other buses possessing a valid license. If the buses scheduled are not present for therespective duties for over 14 days at a stretch it has to be brought to the notice of the top management ofthe authority.

3.6 The authority issues instructions relating to running turns of the approved Time Table regarding to rulesand regulations from time to time regarding to maintenance of running turns as approved by the GeneralTime Table. While making arrangements for minus running turns the authority is responsible to provideequal turns to the running fleet or to allocate a permanent driver for services continuously.

3.7 In an occasion one party has received less turns than the normal percentage of running turns in a GeneralTime Table or in on amendment of a time table or at a reasonable request made or in an occasion where abus gets less number of turns the authority has the power to give preference to a party that got less numberof turns.

3.8 A bus could be entered into the bus terminal only before 5 or 10 minutes it is scheduled to be entered intothe passenger terminal so that it is possible to get the log sheet or get necessary note and go out of the busterminal.

3.9 During the period the bus is parked in the bus stand tickets are to be issued to the passengers and makethem get into the bus and get the log sheet or get necessary note and go out of the bus terminal.

3.10 While driving the bus the driver should not purposely slow the bus to make the passengers late on theirjourneys or make the others drivers loose there income in their turns, and the drivers should not drive thebuses fast and risk the safety of the passengers.

3.11 The authority is empowered to allocate buses for school services, special festivals and or in occasions ofgathering of mass.

3.12 When forwarding new buses to the bus terminal it is necessary to obtain the approval of the authority forthat purpose, and the bus is to be in the necessary conformity. The buses are to be commencing on dutyand get off on duty at the same terminal, and it is to be treated as a place where passengers get into and getdown from buses and also a place where they change their destinations, and it is a center where numerousjourneys are managed and diverted. Accordingly the contractions are to be erected to assist on administrationof bus services, providing necessary facilities for passengers, concentrating on the basic attention onproviding necessary facilities for parking buses and employs. External buildings which might hinder thebasic necessities of the bus terminal or which might make unnecessary problems for the management ofthe administration is not permitted.

3.13 It is an offence to obstruct or hinder the operation of these rules and regulations and legal action will betaken on such issues.

3.14 The list of the Bus Terminals administered by the Eastern Province Passenger's Authority is appearing inSchedule herewith.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.03.20164A

SCHEDULE I

1. Ampara District :

1.1 Ampara Main Bus Terminal1.2 Kalmunai Bus Terminal1.3 Akkaraipattu Bus Terminal1.4 Tirukkovil Bus Terminal1.5 Potuwil Bus Terminal1.6 Panama Bus Terminal1.7 Mahaoya Bus Terminal1.8 Padiyatalawa Bus Terminal1.9 Dehiattakandiya Bus Terminal

2. Batticaloa District :

2.1 Batticaloa Main Bus Terminal2.2 Kokaddicholi Bus Terminal2.3 Kaluwawikudi Bus Terminal2.4 Ariyampathi Bus Terminal2.5 Kachchikudi Bus Terminal2.6 Chenkaladdi Bus Terminal2.7 Pillumalai Bus Terminal2.8 Valachchena Bus Terminal

3. Trincomalee District :

3.1 Trincomalee Main Bus Terminal3.2 Muttur Bus Terminal3.3 Kinniya Bus Terminal3.4 Kanthale Bus Terminal3.5 Pulmudai Bus Terminal3.6 Padavi Sri Pura Bus Terminal

04-431

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.