==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.20181A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 2089$29 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ 19 jeks nodod – 2018'09'19No. 2089/29 – WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2018

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No.: CI/05.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, No. 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha,Colombo 01 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on16th January, 2018 regarding the Non Executive Grades is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial DisputesAct, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

W. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.10th September, 2018.

Collective Agreement No. 04 of 2018

COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON PLC COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTNON EXECUTIVE GRADES

This Collective Agreement made and entered on this 16th January, 2018, between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, a Bank dulyregistered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 21, Sir Razik Fareed Mawatha, (Formerly Bristol Street), Colombo 1(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’),

A1 – G28555 – 11 (09/2018)

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

of One Part

AND

The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at No. 20,Temple Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’)

of the Other Part

WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Collective Agreement entered into on 31st December, 2014between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No. 02 of 2015) which came into effect on 1st January, 2015 and subsequentto negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreements has now been reached between the said two parties for thepurpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees, andmaintaining an efficient and productive working environment, the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder:

1. Parties to be Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (theBank), the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on permanent monthly contractsof employment by the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories for whom a salary scale has been prescribed in thisagreement in the First Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employees’), subject to the provisions of clauses 5, 6,7(a) hereof.

2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be in force from the 1st January, 2018 and shall continueuntil either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act as amended, but no such notice shallbe given before the 31st December, 2020. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revisedCollective Agreement at any time on or after 1st April, 2020.

3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or bindingon the parties hereto and such earlier Agreements including the said Collective Agreement entered into on 31st December,2014 between the parties hereto (Collective Agreement No. 02 of 2015) shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.

4. Matters Covered and Bound.–

(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the mattersraised by the Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclu-sion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreementraise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreementexcept to the extent agreed.

(b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this agreement that they shall not during the continuancein force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employmentor benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual agree-ment.

5. Consolidated Salary.– Every Employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of this Agreementshall, from the 1st January, 2018 be placed on the salary scale set out in the First Schedule hereto, which salary has beenconsolidated at the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index in accordance with the provision stated in clause 7 (a).

6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales.–

For the placement of an employee on the salary scales applicable in the First Schedule, the following provisions shallapply.

(i) A sum equal to 8% of the gross salary (salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) payable to an employee as at 31stDecember, 2017 shall be added to the salary of an employee as at such time and thereafter place on the correspond-ing point on the scale applicable to such employee in the first Schedule or if there is no corresponding point inrupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.20183A

(ii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such grade for a period ofnot less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 6% increase calculated on the gross salaryas at 31st December 2017 with effect from the 1st January 2019, and proportionately for service less than twelvecompleted months at the rate of one-twelfth of such increase in respect of each completed month of service.Thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in the first Schedule or if there is no suchcorresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.

(iii) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such grade for a period ofnot less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 5% increase calculated on the gross salaryas at December 2017 with effect from the 1st January 2020, and proportionately for service less than twelvecompleted months at the rate of one-twelfth of such increase in respect of each completed month of service.Thereafter placed on the corresponding Rupee point on the scale in the first Schedule or if there is no suchcorresponding point in rupee terms, on the next higher point of the said scale.

7. Allowances/Payments/Reimbursements.–

(a) Cost of Living Allowance.- A cost of living allowance will be paid in accordance with the CCPI (Base year 2002)figure that was last published in the month of June 2011 (COL figure for the month of May 2011) by the Departmentof Census & Statistics. Accordingly, the Bank shall pay each employee covered and bound a sum per mensem asdetailed below for the duration of this Collective Agreement;

(a) Rs. 32,000 - with effect from 01.01.2018(b) Rs. 34,000 - with effect from 01.01.2019(c) Rs. 36,000 - with effect from 01.01.2020

Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining tothe rate of payment in relation to the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base Year2006/2007) and if parties so desire to discuss on the modalities of making this payment, either party may requestfor a discussion with the other party and the other party shall agree for such a discussion.

(b) Payment for Telex Operators.-

Where the Bank, as at the date of this Agreement, pays an allowance expressly as a Payment for Telex Operators,the Bank will pay as from the date of this Agreement, Rs 25/- per day subject to a maximum of Rs 450/- per month.

(c) Payment for VDU Operators.-

The Bank will make a payment of Rs 10/- per day up to a maximum of Rs 200/- per month, only to Employees whowere in employment on 1st August 1988 and whose main or primary function is the operation of a VDU. Forpuposes of this Agreement a person who regularly works not less than three (3) hours per day on a VDU will fallwithin the definition of a person whose main or primary function is the operation of a VDU.

(d) Non-receipt of Two Payments.-

No employee will receive the said Payment for Telex Operators plus the Payment for VDU Operators and shallreceive only one of the said Payments.

(e) Disturbance Payment .-

An employee in the Office Assistant and Allied category who will be required to report for work at the followingtimes will be entitled to a Disturbance Payment as follows ;

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

Before4.00 a.m.Rs. 700/-Before5.00 a.m.Rs. 600/-Before6.00 a.m.Rs. 550/-Before7.00 a.m.Rs. 350/-Before7.30 a.m.Rs. 250/-

An employee in the Typist and Allied Grade who will be required to report to work at the following times will beentitled to a Disturbance Payment as follows ;

Before5.00 a.m.Rs. 600/-Before6.00 a.m.Rs. 550/-Before7.00 a.m.Rs. 350/-Before7.30 a.m.Rs. 275/-

(f) Holiday Incentive.–

Employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to receive a Holiday Incentive as follows on account ofexpenses incurred on a holiday during not less than 07 consecutive days of Annual leave taken in any year.

(i) Office Assistants and Allied Grades-Rs. 20,000/- per annum.

(ii) Typists and Allied Grades-Rs. 22,000/- per annum.

8. Incremental Date .–

This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the annual incremental date of an employee.

9. Promotion to Grade II

Subject to provisions of clauses 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 hereof, an employee who completes Seven (7) years in Grade I shallautomatically be promoted to Grade II in his Category and an employee so promoted shall receive not less than the value of two (2)increments in Grade I when placed in Grade II.

10. Accelerated Promotion

I. From Grade I to Grade II

Employees who sit for and successfully pass the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka Examination or the Indian Institute ofBanking and Finance will be considered for placement in Grade II, subject to the conditions referred to at (a) and (b)hereunder, provided, however, that their past record of overall performance, attendance and conduct as assessed by the Bankjustifies such consideration.

(a)on successful completion of the examination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka(Diploma in Banking and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the IndianInstitute of Banking and Finance or three (3) complete years of service with the Bank, or

(b)on successful completion of the examinations leading to Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in BankingFinance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding levelof the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or Four (4) complete years of service with the Bank, .

11. Promotions from Grade II to Grade III. -The following principles shall apply to the promotion of an employee from Grade II to III of the basic salary scales in the FirstSchedule hereto.

(a) All promotions to Grade III will be after an application made by an employee to the employer. Promotion granted consequentupon an application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in which the application is made.

(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be –

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.20185A

(i)An employee who has served for minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade II, or

(ii)An employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking andFinance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance/of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding levelof the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade I or Five (5)years Post - Qulification experience in Grade II, whichever is lower, or

(iii) An employee who has completed all stages of the Exmination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankersof Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance), or the corresponding level ofthe Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade II or three (3)years post-qualification experience in Grade II whichever is lower.

(c) Promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance andpunctuality.

(d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion although suchcannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.

(e) On promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value oftwo (2) increments in Grade II.

12.Promotions from Grade III to Grade IV. -

(a) All promotions to Grade IV will be after and application made by an employee to his employer. Promotion consequent uponan application will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in which the application is made.

(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be -

(i)An employee who has served for minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade III, or

(ii)An employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/ Certificate in Banking andFinance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, or the corresponding levelof the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or fiveyears (5) post-qualification experience in Grade III, whichever is lower, or

(iii) An employee who has completed all stages of the Exmination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankersof Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance /Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance), or the corresponding level ofthe Indian Institute of Banking and Finance or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade III or three (3)years post-qualification experience in Grade III whichever is lower.

(c) Promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance andpunctuality.

(d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non-promotion although suchcannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.

(e) On Promotion to Grade IV an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value oftwo (2) increments in Grade III.

13.Promotions from Grade IV to Grade V. -

(a) All promotions to Grade V will be after an application made by an employee to his employer. Promotion consequent upon anapplication will be effective from the first of the month succeeding the month in which the application is made.,

(b) An employee eligible to make such application will be-

(i)An employee who has served for a minimum period of seven (7) years in Grade IV, or

(ii)An employee who has successfully completed the Intermediate in Banking and Finance / Certificate in Banking andFinance Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, or the corresponding levelof the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, or the minimum period of service of seven (7) years in Grade IV or five(5) years post-qualification experience in Grade IV, whichever is lower, or

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

(iii)An employee who has completed all stages of the Examination leading to the full Associateship of the Institute of Bankersof Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance), or the corresponding level ofthe Indian Institute of Banking & Finance, or the minimum period of service of Seven (7) years in Grade IV or Three (3)years post-qualification experience in Grade IV, whichever is lower.

(c) Promotion to Grade V will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance andpunctuality..

(d) The Union will have the right to make representations to the Bank in respect of any particular non -promotion although suchcannot be the subject matter of an industrial dispute.

(e) On promotion to Grade V an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value oftwo (2) increments in Grade IV.

14. Re-designation of Typist to Junior Executive Assistant Grade.– A typist shall be considered for re-designation asJunior Executive Assistant provided he/she possesses the following eligibility requirements:

(a) Three (3) years service and passing the Intermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding levelof the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance.

(b) On completion of the Final Examination of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka (Diploma in Banking and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking and Finance) or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute of Banking andFinance.

(c) Six (6) years service and the relevant qualifications for entry as a Junior Executive Assistant.

(d) Six (6) years service without the requisite qualifications for entry as a Junior Executive Assistant but subject tosuccess at a written examination and IT practical test conducted by the Bank or on confirmation from therespective Branch Manager / Head of Department that the typist concerned is suitable for re-designation andhas been performing duties of a Junior Executive Assistant for Four (4) consecutive years and the successfulcompletion of the practical test and interview conducted by the Bank.

Provided that where a Typist is promoted as a Junior Executive Assistant under this Clause, he/ she shall have Three(3) years service and the required qualifications or have Six (6) years service as a Junior Executive Assistant to be consideredfor promotion thereafter.

15. Promotions - Office Assistants.– Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at its discretion, theBank will give an opportunity to the Employees in this Grade to apply for the Post of Junior Executive Assistant on an annualbasis provided they meet with the required criteria for promotions.

(a) Office Assistants to Junior Executive Assistants

(i) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade whose record of service, conduct and attendance has beensatisfactory, with more than Four (4) years of service with the Bank who has necessarily completed theIntermediate in Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Applied Bankingand Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the corresponding level of the Indian Institute ofBanking and Finance, will be eligible to apply and will be considered for such Junior Executive Assistantposition. The selection process will include medical examinations, interviews, written tests and IT Practicaltests etc, as determined by the Bank. Vacancies will be advertised internally each year.

(ii) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade whose record of service and conduct has been satisfactory,with more than eight (8) years service with the Bank, shall be exempted from the minimum educationqualifications stipulated and may apply for such vacancy and will be considered in the manner specified at(i) above.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.20187A

(iii) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade promoted in the manner specified above will be required toserve a period of probation of twelve (12) months which may be extended by the Bank for a further period ofup to six (6) months during which, or at the end of which, the Bank may at its discretion revert such Employeeto his earlier position and salary.

(iv) Any Employee in the Office Assistant Grade promoted to the Grade of Junior Executive Assistant will bepaid a salary at the commencement point of the Junior Executive Assistant salary range or otherwiseproportionately placed, subject to the Employee receiving increases that will be not less than the value oftwo (2) increments on the scale applicable to him in the Office Assistant scale.

The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive.

16. Provident Fund. -

(a) RATE OF CONTRIBUTION. -The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund shall be :

Bank’s contribution-12% (twelve percent)* of salaryEmployee’s contribution-8% (eight percent) of salary

* Provided however, any increase to the Employers’ contribution in terms of the EPF Act, No. 15 of 1958 as amended and anydirection in furtherance to that by the authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.

Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount paid for thatmonth as Cost of Living Allowance subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.

(b) INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTIONS HELD BY THE BANK.– Where Provident Fund monies areinvested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid of 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum ofRs. 100,000/= published by the N.S.B prevailing as at the 01st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailingon the 01st July for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.

(c) DEFICIENCY IN BANK’S CONTRIBUTIONS TO PROVIDENT FUND TO AN EMPLOYEE NOT ENTITLED TO A

PENSION .– Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle to a pension orpayment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entiled to the difference between the Bank’s contributionsmade to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate of contribution he would have been entitled to,in terms of the Employee’s Provident Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by theemployer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will be the difference between the following minimum rates ofcontribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st March 1992.

From 1.1.1971 to 31.12.1980- 9% of gross salaryFrom 1.1.1981 onwards-12% of gross salary

Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary), which was lessthan 10% of basic salary, and therefore no deficiency arises.

17.Terminal Benefits

(a)PENSIONS.– An employee shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank, i.e., 60 years or in terms of his contract ofemployment at 55 years, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed notless than ten (10) years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pensioncomputed on the following basis :

8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

(i) Employees opting to retire at 55 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 35 years) plus 5 years

55

(ii) Employees opting to retire at 60 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 40 years) plus 5 years

60

(b)PREMATURE RETIREMENT ON MEDICAL GROUNDS / DISABILITY.– An employee who is found to be unable tocontinue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/ disability, as certified by the Bank’s Doctor/ Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completednot less than ten (10) years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pensioncomputed on the same basis referred to at clause 17 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled tocompensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitledto a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whosepremature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre - acceptance ofpension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensationunder any written law.

(c)LUMP SUM GRATUITY IN LIEU OF PENSION RIGHTS.– An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of(a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any otherpayments arising there from. The payment will be computed on the following basis :

(i) Employees opting to retire at 55 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 35 years) plus 5 years

(ii) Employees opting to retire at 60 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 40 years) plus 5 years

The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of thecessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in the Bank’s contribution to Provident Fund toan employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 17.

(d)DEATH GRATUITY .– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of theBank, the Bank will make a compassionate payment of two (2) Months gross salary for each year of completed servicesubject to a minimum of nine (9) month’s gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may bedetermined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of anemployee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employeeprovided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, thegratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the lastdrawn salary plus the cost of Living Allowance.

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the monthof Retirement

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the monthof Retirement

x

x

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the monthof Retirement

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the month

of Retirement

x

x

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.20189A

Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependentsshall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensationunder any laws in force at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or anAward of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose death occurredin consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of suchdependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.

(e) Gratuity on Resignation/ Termination Prior to Retirement.–

An employee shall, upon resignation/ termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances whichdo not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to at the aformentioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) beentitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30days of the cessation of employment.

The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5 and the Cost of Living Allowancereferred to at Clause 7 (a) hereof.

Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/leave without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 17 thereof.

(f)Commuted Pension.–

(i) At the option of the Employee at the time of retirement, 25% of the monthly pension into 120 will be paidto employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in theagreement and who opt for such commuted pension.

(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension pay-able to him during the first ten (10) years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would havebeen entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the saidten (10) years the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthlypension then being paid.

(g) Alternate terminal benefit plan.–

(i) An employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan under the Re-structured Pension Schemeoffered by the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age nor willsuch employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built-in to the terminal benefits lump-sumpayable under the re-structured scheme at the time of retirement/separation.

(ii) Further, as per the Re-structured Pension Scheme, in the event of early separation prior to retirement(excluding death) an employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the Defined Contri-bution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.

(iii) However, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will bereleased to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs.

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

18.Medical Scheme

(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for non-Hospitalization Expenses.–

The Bank will reimburse :

1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades-Rs. 25,000 per annum2. Typists and Allied Grades-Rs. 25,500 per annum

in respect of medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarriedlegitimate children under the age of 21 in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non -surgical and specialisttreatment.

An employee who has a differently abled child/children is entitled to receive Rs. 60.000 per annum as medicalexpenses in addition to the amount specified above, subject to the recommendation of the Medical Board andregistration with the Compensation and Benefits Unit of the Bank.

(ii) Special Non - Hospitalisation and Non - Surgical Expenditure.–

The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non - cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum as givenbelow per annum on account of special non - hospitalisation and non - surgical expenses covering thefollowing items only incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members in keepingwith existing practice of such reimbursement.

(a)Spectacles

1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades -Rs. 20,0002. Typists and Allied Grades-Rs. 20.000

(b)Dentures/ Nerve Filling/ Root Filling

1. Office Assistants and allied Grades-Rs. 15,0002. Typists and allied Grades-Rs. 15,000

(c)Hearing Aids

1. Office Assistants and allied Grades-Rs. 20,0002. Typists and allied Grades-Rs. 20,000

Subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder and subject to the provisions that no claim ismade in relation to any particular item more than once in three (3) years other than in respect of employeesover the age of forty (40) years who will be entitled to reimbursement on account of spectacles once in twoyears. In respect of spectacles, it must be supported by a prescription from a medical eye specialist.

(iii) SURGICAL AND HOSPITALIZATION EXPENDITURE .– Employees will be reimbursed on account ofsurgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private) expenses incurred on behalf of the Employee,his spouse and unmarried legitimate children under twenty one (21) years of age subject to the production ofvalid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to the following limits per annum:

(a) Hospital or Nursing Room Charges:Daily Limit-Rs. 12,000Government Hospital Allowance-Rs. 4,000

The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone intensive caretreatment.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201811A

(b) Emergency Treatment Travel expenses (maximum)-Rs. 4,500*The rate is Rs. 45/- per Kilometer

(c) Overall Limit for any one year

1. Office Assistants and Allied Grades-Rs. 250,000 per annum2. Typists and Allied grades-Rs. 260,000 per annum

Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medicalcheckups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/- perannum under this entitlement.

Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of fullbody medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum ofRs. 20,000/- per annum under the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.

(iv) GENERAL .–

If both husband and wife are employees, and the bill exceeds the limit of one Employee, the balance to be paidfrom of the spouse’s entitlement subject to a maximum of 50% of the full entitlement/available limit.

Normal child birth will be included for reimbursement under medical expenses subject to the above limits upto two (2) times.

All medical claims mentioned above, except for Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-HospitalisationExpenses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. Prescriptions or Doctor’sbills shall be from a Registered Medical Practiitoner.

The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will beeffected.

19. Retirement.–

(a) The age of retirement shall be sixty (60) years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and itsEmployees, and on reaching the age of sixty (60), or any other age mutually agreed upon, an Employee shallipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to givesuch employee any notice of such retirement.

(b) An Employee may also be retired within a period of five (5) years prior to his retirement age and be eligible forretirement benefits if he/she has ten (10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between theEmployee, his Union and the employer that he/she should be given such concession and subject to thecondition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrialdispute.

20. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year payto every Employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two (2) months’ salary as drawn by such Employee for the month ofDecember in respect of one completed year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less thanone (1) year at the rate of one-twelfth (1 /12th) of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. However, ifan employee is terminated/resigned from services before completion of one year meaning January to December, he is notentitled for any bonus.

The salary for this purpose shall include the Cost of Living Allowance payable for that month.

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

21. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine (9) months probation subject to theright of the Bank to extend the period of probation by a period of three (3) months.

22. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers.– An Office Bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work withoutpayment of any salary, allowance or any other payment of whatever nature on the following basis:

(a) The total number of Office Bearers so released shall not exceed one (1).

(b) No Employee shall be released for more than two (2) years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) years.

(c) On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive incrementalcredit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights under Clause 17hereof.

23. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors.–

(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two (2) Branch Union Office Bearers at anyone (1) given occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Beareres to bepresent at inquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and BankManagement - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.

It is agreed that General Council Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon on twelve (12) days in ayear for meetings. In the case of outstation General Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the whole day fortwelve (12) General Council Meetings in a year. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30)miles from Colombo.

(b)It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two (2) occasions per year to General Councilors to attend ParentUnion General Council meetings.

(c)It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of theUnion. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.

(d)It is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pay up to a maximum of one (1) day, once in two (2) years, allemployees in the membership of the Central Committee of the Union and the union Branch Delegates in the Bank, to attendthe National Delegates Conference of the Union provided however, that the Bank is given two (2) weeks written notice ofthe Conference and not more than one (1) employee attached to any single branch/ department of the Bank is so released.

24. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leaveto visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total numberof days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.

25. Overtime.–

(a) If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable over time which has been authorised by the employer, subjectto the provisions of any law for the time being in force.

(b) Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.

26 . Leave.-(a)ANNUAL LEAVE

(i) ENTITLEMENT.– In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) duringwhich and employee has been in continuous employment he/she shall be entitled to take in the following year twentyone (21) working days paid leave. He/she shall avail him/herself of at least seven (7) days out of the twenty one (21)days on successive days and shall in respect of each year avail him/herself of not less than fourteen 14 days out of thesaid twenty one (21) working days.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201813A

.(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :(a)The full annual holiday of twenty one (21) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January butbefore 1st April.(b)A holiday of fifteen (15) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.(c)A holiday of eleven (11) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, and(d)A holiday of six (6) days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.

(iii) AVAILMENT.–The Availment of all Annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’s application, givingsufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.

(iv) ACCUMULATION.–Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee at the rate of seven (7) days per annum exclusively for purposesreferred hereunder up to a maximum period of ninety (90) days:

(a)For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.(b)For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.(c)For travel abroad for which purpose one (1) month’s prior notice shall be given.(d)For marriage of the employee.(e)On account of the death of a family member, provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’s leave.(f)For purposes of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.(g)Prolonged illness of the employee.

(v) Any annual leave not utilized by an employee up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year in excess of the number ofninety (90) days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the employee on request, by the Bank at anamount equal to one (1) day’s salary per each day unavailed of.

(vi) Provided that in the case of (iv)(b)to (f) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management.

(vii) Family member for purposes of (iv) (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.

(b) Medical Leave.–

(i)Entitlement .–

An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or otherholidays in any one (1) year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii)hereof.

(ii)Availment.–

The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness notsupported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.

(a)Where such period of absence exceeds two (2) consecutive days including weekly or other holi-days, or

(b)Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by aRegistered Medical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.

(iii)Accumulation .–

An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one (1) year as prescribed above shall be entitledto avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject tothe following provisions ;

(a)In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation,exceed ninety (90) days, and

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

(b)The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness,hospitalisation or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered MedicalPractitioner,

(c)Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illnesssuch as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalization, the employer may permit him to set offany further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extentof the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.

(iv)The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / ortake any action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported bya Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :

(a)Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and / or reasonfor absence of an employee, or

(b)Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes anyweekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of theapplication and/or reason for absence of the employee.

(c)Casual Leave.–

An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employmentwhereof not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precedeor follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless thereason for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that couldnot have been foreseen by such employee.

(d)Maternity Leave.–

The leave that an Employee is entitled to in this regard shall be governed as per the provisions of theShop and Office Employees’ Act. However, where a female employee has given birth to twins/triplets/other multiple births upon her first confinement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84working days in respect of her confinement, provided it is a live birth.

27. Suspension. –

(i)Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to theprovisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six (6)months and full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.

(ii)Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappro-priation, the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry isnot concluded within six (6) months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary(Salary plus Cost of Living Allowance) during his suspension beyond the said six (6) months period. Providedthat if the delay beyond six (6) months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the employee being incustody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salaryas aforementioned will not be payable.

(iii)In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from con-cluding the inquiry within six (6) months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such aswhere the employee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in policecustody or where the matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half hissalary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201815A

28. Disciplinary Procedure. – Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except,however, in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shallapply ;

(a)Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with ashow cause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such showcause letter shall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanationin writing to the charges preferred.

(b)Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to theBank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable,the employee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanationand where such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of timeas is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.

(c)If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to showcause and the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against theemployee and if the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee andshall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.

(d)Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank isnot satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiryinto the charges against such employee.

(e)The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within twenty one (21) workingdays from the date of receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is notpossible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct orseeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.

(f)The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accusedemployee or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves toitself the right to prevent the person carrying on the defense for unacceptable conduct) to defend theaccused employee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal quali-fication. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account.The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observerwithout loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing thename of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for thecommencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for theaccused employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled torequire a Defending Employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defend-ing Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a DefendingEmployee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiatesuch inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not beentitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring Officer mayask him.

(g)The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer andthe accused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified anda copy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a truecopy of such proceedings before the inquiring Officer.

(h)The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecutionas well.

16AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

(i)Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, inwriting, of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.

(j)Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working daysexcept for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, suchemployee shall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to theemployee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.

(k)Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the followingcircumstances :

(i)Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in whichevent the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to show.

(ii)where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.

(iii)where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the Employerthereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21) workingdays after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

(l)The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bankand the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which theBank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and/ orpunishment.

(m)Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -

(i)the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall take effect as fromthe date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that the Bank shall not be entitledto recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period ofsuspension, if any such payment has been made.

(ii)the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall bepaid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to imposesuch other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of suspensionpending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.

(n)The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view of thefact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for investigationor inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.

29. Technology.–

(i)The Third Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking Technology agreed upon between theparties.

(ii)The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer Based BankingTechnology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.

(iii)Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters relatingto Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any representations/dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.

(iv)It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred to theMonitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the Monitoring Committee notbeing able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the LabourDepartment and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changesare necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to implement such changes.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201817A

30. Trade Union Action.–

(a)MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT :(i) The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank thatduring the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union actionincluding go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respectof any dispute related to this Agreement. However, a dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh CollectiveAgreement after 31st day of December 2020, cannot be construed interpreted and/or implied by the Employer as adispute related to this Agreement.

(ii) In the event there been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh collectiveagreement aforesaid, and if the parent union decides to resort to any form of trade union action, the parent union shallgive at least fourteen (14) days’ notice in writing to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylong and theCommissioner General of Labour before the date of such trade union action. However such notice shall not be givenprior to 31st March 2021.

(b)MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT :The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during thecontinuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action includinggoslow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any disputethat may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –

(i)The Branch Union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank, at whichstage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the Parent Union (theCeylon Bank Employees’ Union).

(ii)The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms ofconciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.

(iii)In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice inwriting of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute andthat it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employer’s Federation ofCeylon and to the commissioner of Labour.

31. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty(40) per cent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however, thatthe Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provisions of thisCollective Agreement in relation to the Bank.

32. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement:–(i)Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is beingimplemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology change such mattershall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank andtwo representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may request that a matter be placed before the MonitoringCommittee by communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.

(ii)Any dispute over the Interpretation of the agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbiration under section 3 of theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1950 as amended.

18AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

33. Consequences of Termination of Agreement:–On the termination of this Agreement all terms conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/or its membersshall ipso facto cease.

34. Definitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the followingmeanings.

BankCommercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.

EmployeeAn employee covered and bound by this Agreement.

EmployerCommercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.

Cost of Living AllowanceThe payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner set out inClause 7 (a) hereof.

Cost of Living IndexThe Cost of Living Index published monthly by the Department of Census andStatistics.

Parent UnionThe Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union

Branch UnionThe Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Commercial Bank ofCeylon PLC.

DisputeA dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrialdisputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the BranchUnion of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at such respective Bank.

SalaryShall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.

Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine. Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201819A

20AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201821A

22AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201823A

24AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

SECOND SCHEDULE

1.The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in clause 18 of the Agreement. Itshall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to be included in this Scheme.

No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.

2.(a) Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital. Provided however,where the employee is aged 30 years or above expenses he/ she incurs on account of full body medical checkups, withoutbeing admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/= per annum. In addition to this entitlement.

(b)Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full body medical checkups,without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/- per annum. under thereimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.

3.The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to hospital.

4.The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the employee shall berequired to make declaration (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal Forms) and submit documentation requiredby Bank/ Insurers in proper form and timely manner to enable to the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies.The Bank will advise by internal circulars issued from time to time the documentary requirement and time limit within whichdocuments should be submitted. Where an employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this scheme.

5.Employees shall uphold the principle of uberima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this scheme andany deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any benefit under this scheme. In addition, the employee will beliable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.

6. (a)The Bank will circulate by internal circulars published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes, expensesincurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and / or deletions to this list will also bemade by internal circulars.

(b)If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the Institutions givenin the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of amendments to the list referredto in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named Institution or Institutions and the Bankshall consider such applications on a case by case basis and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensa-tion, provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.

Exclusions .– The scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :

(a)Occasioned by or happening through,

(i) The participation by employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, Hostilities(whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military,Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.

(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, or any self inflicted injury/sickness.

(iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 18 (iv). Provided that if an Employee has been employed for acontinues period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the Medical Expenses incurred for any abnormality of Maternitywhich is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with therequired proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makesthe claim.

(iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave

(b)Incurred whilst travelling in an Air craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type of civilaircraft operated by a recognized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil aircraft having twoor more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or Industrial firm and pilotedby a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.201825A

(c)In respect of Eye Test or Dental Treatment.

(d)Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.

7.The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in clause 18 (iii) of the Agreement shall bedeemed to be the period 1 st January to 31 st December. In the case of employees who join during the course of a year the overalllimit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the number of full months of service upto 31st December.

8.In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the entitlement of eitheror both years as applicable.

THIRD SCHEDULE

The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology by the Bankcovered and bound by this Agreement.

1.Wherever practical the Bank will endeavor to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of VDU/ non VDU tasks which seekto provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.

2.The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper safety andeffectiveness of the operations.

3.The Bank agrees to provide VDU operator with adequate training within the parameters of their job description to ensure the safetyand health of employees.

4.(a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain the equipment, which will ensure the following :

(i)Screens that give clear stable images.

(ii)Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.

(iii)Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.

(b)The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.

(c)The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents andancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.

(d)The Bank will endeavor to provide lighting facility to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.

(e)Employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU, will bepermitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to hiscommencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the Optician, the employee shouldinform the Bank immediately.

(f)Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Managment of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU,and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the first time, he will be permitted, at theexpenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as towhether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and modification to the lenses if necessary,will be borne by the Bank on the following basis.

(i)The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Scheme herein.

(ii)The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical Scheme, but if such cost should exceed the limitsprescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.

26AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'19PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.09.2018

5.Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Bank isagreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no disruptionof the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.

6.The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of theBank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations as to whether the main or primaryfunction is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute raised on this issue.

7.The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence of theintroduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or more of the followingoptions:

(a)The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform work which is withintheir skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to suchemployees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would under normalcircumstances be entitled to effect.

(b)The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the Employer consider it necessary.

(c)The Bank will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this Agreement, witha view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to retrenchment withinthe meaning of this schedule.

8.For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant conse-quent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include a situation where such redundantemployees voluntarily leave the service of the employer on terms mutually agreed upon.

10 - 63

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA