==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2115$42 - 2019 ud¾;= ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'03'21No. 2115/42 - THURSDAY MARCH 21, 2019

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - G 29708 —20 (03/2019)

L.D.B. 5/2007

THE ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ACT, No. 19 OF 2006

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Digital Infrastructure and Information Technology under Section 24 read withSection 8(2) of the Electronic Transaction Act, No. 19 of 2006 on the recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject of Registration of Persons.

AJITH P. PERERA,Minister of Digital Infrastructure andInformation Technology.Colombo,05th March, 2019.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the Electronic Transaction (e-Registration of Persons) RegulationsNo. 1 of 2019.

2. These regulations shall authorize and facilitate the use of electronic documents and electronic records by theCommissioner-General for the efficient delivery of services.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20192A

3. The National Register of Persons, being an information system, established and maintained under Registrationof Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 shall be used to create, file, process, securely retain, share or issue documents or recordsgenerated under Sections 6, 6A, 9, 16, 17 and 39B of the said Act, No. 32 of 1968 electronically for the purpose ofSection 8 of the Act (hereinafter referred to as the “electronic documents” or “electronic records”)

4. The Commissioner-General shall ensure that-

(a)an electronic document and electronic record is created, filed and securely retained and maintained inthe manner provided in Schedule A.

(b)the control process and procedure followed to secure the confidentiality, authenticity and integrity ofan electronic document and electronic record is in accordance with Schedule B.

(c)the manner or method for receipt of payment of any fees or charges for the filing, creation, retention orissue of any electronic record or electronic document shall be in accordance with Schedule C.

5. In these regulations -

“Act” means the Electronic Transaction Act, No. 19 of 2006 ;

“Commissioner-General” means the Commissioner-General for the Registration of Persons appointedunder the Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968 ;

“electronic” means information generated, sent, received or stored by electronic, magnetic, optical orother similar capacities regardless of the medium ;

“electronic document” includes a document, record, information, communication or transcation, issued orreproduced by electronic means ;

“electronic record” means a written document or other record created, stored, generated, received orcommunicated by electronic means ; and

“information system” means an electronic system for creating, generating, sending, receiving, storing,reproducing, displaying, recording or processing information.

[Regulation 4(a)]

SCHEDULE A

The electronic documents and electronic records shall be created, filed, securely retained and maintained by theCommissioner-General in the following manner -

(a)in both text and image data ;

(b)by scanning document images and through data capturing and data entry procedures in a manner specifiedby the Commissioner-General ;

(c) in relation to national identity cards -

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20193A

(i)all data shall be stored in a database which standards and specification shall be specified by theCommiissioiner-General ;

(ii)all images shall be encrypted and stored in the information system ;

and access shall be provided to authorized officers in writing by the Commissioner-General.

[Regulation 4(b)]

SCHEDULE B

The control process and procedures that should be followed by the Commissioner-General to secure theconfidentiality, authenticity and integrity of an electronic document and electronic record, shall be as follows :-

(a)all data storerd in servers, server systems and network of the information system of the Commissioner-General, including the physical security of servers, shall be securely maintained under the supervisionof system administrator with secure access rights to be determined from time to time ;

(b)the electronic documents and electronic records shall be created, edited, viewed and shared only byofficers authorized by the Commissioner-General in writing ;

(c)access shall be granted to the authorized officers through information security control procedurespecified by the Commissioner-General from time to time.

(d)the authorized officers shall be assigned different job roles in the information system for purpose ofcontrol and supervision ;

(e)data related to national identity cards shall be validated, verified and corrected at several points to minimizedata entry errors. The scanned images of source documents shall be made available to the authorizedofficers of the information system for verifying the data at any given time.

(f)if any authorized officer of the information system makes any change to any data in the said system itshall be recorded in the information system with edited fields, user ID, date, time and such informationshall be required to be recorded by the Commissioner-General.

(g)The Commissioner-General shall inform the authorized officers the purpose for which reports may begenerated form the information system ;

(h)The Commissioner-General shall designate the officers who shall take daily and weekly backups of thedata as well as electronic records and electronic documents in the information system and specify thelocation and manner in which such backup information may be stored.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.03.20194A

[Regulation 4(c)]

SCHEDULE C

The manner or method for receipt of payment of any fees or charges for the filing, creation, retention or issue ofany electronic record or electronic documents, shall be as follows :-

(a)the Commissioner-General shall levy fees or charges for the services provided, including charges forthe filing, creation, retention or issue of any electronic records or electronic document using theinformation system and certifying the authenticity of the particulars in a national identity card of aperson ;

(b)the fees and charges to be levied for the services facilitated using the information system shall bedetermined and notified by the Commissioner-General from time to time ;

(c)all payments received in respect of the services provided, including payments for the filing, creation,retention or issue of any electronic record or electronic document, shall be updated through theinformation system.

(d)reports in relation to any payments received for the services provided, including payments for the filing,creation, retention or issue of any electronic record or electronic documents, shall be issued and generatedfrom the information system ;

(e)the Commissioner-General may specify the manner in which fees and charges may be levied, whether byelectronic payment methods or otherwise, for the services provided using the information system.

03 - 1407

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.