PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATION BUILDING TAX (AMENDMENT)

————————

[Bill No. 294]

————————

Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of Buddha Sasana andReligious Affairs on 21st March, 2014

(Published in the Gazette on March 10, 2014)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

to amend the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

2-2d

2-

————————

2—PL 008069—525 (03/2014)

224

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 3 of the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of 2009(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of the section asamended is—

(a) to determine the base of calculation of the payment of tax, in respect of thesupply of financial services and to remove the exemption granted on supplyof financial services; and

(b) to exempt certain articles from the liability of the payment of tax.

Clause 3 : This clause amends the First Schedule to the principal enactment and thelegal effect of the said Schedule as amended is to extend the scope of exemption to morearticles.

Clause 4 : Clause 4 validates the acts performed by the Commissioner-General of InlandRevenue or the Director-General of Customs, in respect of the collection oftax during the period commencing from January1, 2014 and ending on thedate of operation of this Act.

1Nation Building Tax (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

Short titleand date ofoperation.

2—PL 008069—175 (03/2014)

25

L. D.—O. 6/2014.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATION BUILDING TAX ACT, NO. 9 OF 2009

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Nation Building Tax(Amendment) Act, No. of 2014 and shall be deemed tohave come into operation from January 1, 2014.

2.Section 3 of the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of2009 as last amended by Act, No. 11 of 2013 (hereinafterreferred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby furtheramended in subsection (2) of that section as follows :—

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (iii) thereof, for thewords, “other than any excepted service referred to inthe First Schedule to this Act,” of the following wordsand figures:—

“other than any excepted service referred to in theFirst Schedule to this Act:

Provided that, the liable turnover from thesupply of any financial service in Sri Lanka, by anyperson carrying on the business of banking orfinance shall, notwithstanding anything contraryin any other provision of this Act, be the valueaddition attributable to such financial service,calculated for the purposes of applying theattributable method referred to in subsection (4) ofsection 25c of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of2002, for the payment of Value Added Tax on thesupply of finanical services.;

Provided further, that in calculating the valueaddition attributable to such financial service, where

Amendmentof section 3of Act, No. 9of 2009.

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)2

5

10

15

20

25

30

the amount of profits for each relevant quarter cannotbe accurately ascertained, such amount may beestimated on the basis of available information. Theestimated amount shall be adjusted to reflect theactual amount with the audited statement ofaccounts on yearly basis and such adjustment shallbe submitted within six months after the closingdate of the relevant accounting period.”;

(2)in paragraph (iv) –

(i)by the substitution for subparagraph (2) thereofof the following subparagraph:—

“(2) (a)sugar, dhal, potatoes, onions, driedfish, milk powder or chilies under theprovisions of the Special CommodityLevy Act, No. 48 of 2007, where sucharticle is sold on or before December31, 2013, by the importer of sucharticle; or

(b)any article which is subject to theSpecial Commodity Levy under theprovisions of the Special CommodityLevy Act, No. 48 of 2007, where sucharticle is sold on or after January 1,2014, by the importer of such articlewithout any processing except foradaption for sale;”;

(ii)by the substitution in subparagraph (7) thereoffor the words “producer thereof; and” of thewords “producer thereof;”;

(iii)by the substitution in subparagraph (8) thereoffor the words “in a filling station.” of the words“in a filling station;”;

3Nation Building Tax (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

(iv)by the addition immediately after subparagraph(8) of that paragraph, of the followingsubparagraphs:—

“(9)retail sale of any article at duty freeshops for payment in foreign currency;and

(10)distribution of LP Gas.”.

3.The First Schedule to the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 11 of 2013 ,is hereby further amendedas follows:—

(1)In PART I of that Schedule:—

(a)by the substitution for item (xiii) thereof, of thefollowing item:—

“(xiii)pharmaceuticals identified underthe Harmonized of CommodityDescripion and Coding Numbers forCustom purposes;”;

(b)by the substitution for item (xix) thereof, of thefollowing item:—

“(xix)locally manufactured tractors at thepoint of sale;”;

(c)by the substitution in item (XLIV) for the words“project implementation period; and” of thewords “project implementation period;”;

(d)by the substitution in item (XLV) for the words“approved by the Minister of Finance.” of thewords “approved by the Minister of Finance;and”;

Amendmentof FirstSchedule ofthe principalenactment.

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)4

5

10

15

20

25

(e)by the insertion immediatly after item (XLV)thereof the following new item:—

“(XLVI)locally manufactured coconut oil at thepoint of sale by the manufacturer, fora period of three years commencingfrom January 1, 2014;”and;

(2)In PART II of that schedule :—

(a)by the substitution for item (i) thereof of thefollowing item:—

“(i)the business of Banking or Financefor any period ended on or beforeDecember 31, 2013;

(b)by the substitution for item (vi) thereof of thefollowing item:—

“(vi)the provision of finance leasingfacilities in respect of any movableproperty;”;

(c)by the substitution for item (xxvi) thereof ofthe following item:—

“(xxvi)services provided to or within anyport or airport in relation tointernational transportation;”;

(d)by the substitution in item (xxxv) for the words“Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422); and” of thewords “Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422);”;

(e)by the substitution in item (xxxvi) for the words“on behalf of the Government.” of the words“on behalf of the Government; and”;

5Nation Building Tax (Amendment)

5

(f)by the insertion immediately after the item(xxxvi), of the following new item:—

“(xxxvii)the services provided by any reloctedinternational headquaters or regionalhead office of any institution in theinternational network, prescribed forthe purpose of Inland Revenue Act,for payment in foreign currency.”.

4.Where the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenueor the Director-General of Customs as the case may be,collects under the provisions of section 4 or section 5respectively of the principal enactment, the tax calculatedconsidering the provisions of this Act, during the periodcommencing from January 1, 2014 and ending on the dateon which the cerificate of the Speaker is endorsed in respectof this Act from a person to whom the provisions of this Actapplies, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been, and to be validly made:

Provided that the aforesaid provisions of this section shallnot affect any decision or order made by any Court or anyproceedings pending in any Court in respect of any taxcollected during the aforesaid period.

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase of aninconsistency.

10

15

Validation.

20

Nation Building Tax (Amendment)6

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.