==== BLOCKS ==== 

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

NOTIFICATIONS OF PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

wxl 2039$35 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdÞ - 2017'10'06

No. 2039/35 – FRIDAY, OCTOBER 06, 2017

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

EXTRAORDINARY

w;s úfYI

Information Technology Resources Development Charter of Western Province

NEW Information Technology Resources Development Charter of Western Province No. 01 of 2017, which has been preparedby the Minister of Education, Cultural and Arts Affairs, Sports and Youths Affairs and Information Technology of theWestern Province rescinding the Information Technology Resources Development Charter of Western Province No.06 of2000, is given below. This new charter shall come in to effect from 12.09.2017.

K. W. RANJITH SOMAWANSA,Minister of Education, Cultural and Arts Affairs,

Sports and Youths Affairs andInformation Technology of the

Western Province.

Battaramulla.04th October, 2017.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www. documents.gov.lk

1A - PG 3720 - 37 (10/2017)

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'062 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

Information Technology Resources Development Authority Statute,

No. 01 of 2017 of the Western Province

A statute to provide for systematic, efficient and effective utilization of Information and communicationaffairs for the performance of duties and functions relevant to the subjects assigned to Western ProvinceProvincial Council, for development and analysis of systems and methods, to regularize and expand computertechnology and related matters, to provide the benefits of Information technology development to thepeople, to allocate provisions for matters incidental thereto and to repeal the Information TechnologyResources Development Statute No. 06 of 2000 of Western Province.

BE it passed by the Provincial Council of the Western Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaas follows :-

1. This Statute may by cited as the Information Technology Resources Development AuthorityStatute No. 01 of 2017 of Western Province and shall come into operation on the date of assent of theGovernor.

PART I

Establishment of the Western ProvinceInformation Technology Resources Development Authority

and its Composition

2. (1)There shall be established an authority which shall be called information Technology ResourcesDevelopment Authority of the Western Province, hereinafter referred to as the ''Authority''.

(2)The Authority shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and maysue and sued in such name.

3.Administration and Management of Authority's affairs shall be assigned to the ManagementBoard (hereinafter referred to as ''Board'') as per provisions allocated below and the saidManagement Board shall consist of four (04) official members, three (03) members appointed bythe minister from among the members stated below.

(a) Officers appointed on ex-officio basis :

(i) Deputy Chief Secretary of Western Province (Personnel and Training)(ii) Deputy Chief Secretary of Western Province (Financial)(iii) Deputy Chief Secretary of Western Province (Engineering)(iv) Provincial Director of Education of Western Provincial

(b) Three persons appointed by the minister from among the following stated persons:

(i)Two persons excelled in proper knowledge and expertise pertaining to the subjects ofInformation and Communication Technology, Telecommunication, Law, Administrationand Management, will be appointed as members.

(ii)Another persons shall be appointed by inquiring the Chief Minister, that member shallbe appointed as the Chairman of the Authority.

4.Where a person ;

(1)Is a member of Parliament, member of Provincial Council or Councilor of a Local GovernmentAuthority or,

Short title andDate ofEnforcement.

Establishment ofInformationTechnologyResourcesDevelopmentAuthority

Disqualificationsto become amember

Authority'sManagementBoard

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'063 APART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

The officialTenure of Board'sChairman

Removal fromMembership

Payment ofEmoluments tothe Members ofManagementBoard.

(2)Is not a Sri Lankan citizen or,

(3)Has been declared or decided as a mentally instable person according to a law enforced inSri Lanka or any other country or,

(4)is/ has been subjected to a penalty in the form of imprisonment, ordered by a Court of Lawin Sri Lanka or any other country,

(5)Is an owner of a private company maintaining a business regarding Information Technologyor being an agent of him

such a person shall not qualify to be appointed as a member of the Board or to function continuouslyas a member.

5. (1)Every appointed member of the authority shall hold his office for not more than three years,decided by the minister at the time of the member's appointment and calculated from such dateof appointment. Futher, unless removed from office under Sub-section 7(1), he shall qualify tobe re-appointed.

(2)The member/members appointed in place of an already appointed member's removal from officeor upon his resignation, shall hold office only for the remaining term.

6. (1)The official tenure of Chairman shall be his term of membership at the Authority subjected toprovisions of Sub-section 7(1).

(2)In case the Chairman becomes unable to accomplish duties of his office temporarily due to anillness or other disability or staying away from Sri Lanka, the minister may appoint a ManagementBoard member to act in his place.

(3)The Chairman may resign by way of a letter forwarded to the minister.

(4)When the minister is dissatisfied about the modus operandi of Chairman, he may terminateChairman's appointment after inquiring the Chief Minister.

(5)The Chairman shall preside at all the meetings of the Board. In the absence of Chairman at ameeting of the Board, a Management Board member present at the said meeting should selectone among them to preside that particular meeting.

7. (1)Whoever a member may be removed from his office by the minister by way of a Gazettenotification without declaring any explanation and such removal shall not be challenged in anyCourt of Law.

(2)Where the minister has made an order as per above Sub-section (1) with regard to a member ofthe Authority, affairs shall proceed considering as if the said member's office got vacant by thedate such order was published in the Gazette paper.

(3)A member appointed to the Authority may resign from his office of member or Chairman at anytime, by way of a resignation letter forwarded to the minister.

(4)Emoluments, allowances and other expenses from the Authority's fund may be paid to all themembers of the Management Board of the Authority or to any particular member, according toprovisions issued from time to time and circulars on the consent of the Secretary in charge of thesubject of Finance and instructions and provisions issued by the Provincial Treasury.

Official Tenureof MembersAppointed

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'064 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

Rules ofProcedure of theBoard

Secretary of theManagementBoard

Objectives of theAuthority

8. (1)Quorum of a meeting of the Board shall consist of 04 members.

(2)No action or process should be as invalid owing to a vacancy in the Board's membership orfaulty appointment of members to the Board.

(3)A Management Board meeting shall be held once a month at least.

(a) A written notice on every board meeting shall be served to each member 03 days prior to the

meeting day and its shall state taskes scheduled at the said meeting.

(b) If a request be made by way of a letter signed by minimum of two members to call a Board

meeting, the Chairman shall call a special Board meeting.

(c) Without the approval of the Board member appointed by the Minister, if a member does not

participate for three meetings continuously, his membership will be abolished.

(4)Affairs of the Authority shall be administered by the Management Board.

(5)The Management Board may assign its powers and functions required for efficient control ofthe Authority, to Chairman, Director or employee of the Authority.

(6)A suitable officer from among the employees of the Authority may be appointed as the Secretaryof the Management Board.

(7)In case of the Board of Members' voting on any matter takes equal division, the presidingperson shall possess a ''Casting Vote''.

PART II

Objectives and Powers of the Authority

9.Objectives of the Authority are as follows.

(1)Providing Government Services through internet and other new technologies to public byestablishing information and communication technology services and implementinge-government policy of the province.

(2)Planning, development, establishment and maintenance of information and communicationtechnology projects relevant to the province.

(3)Installing software systems to improve service efficiency of provincial council and to automateprocesses.

(4)Creating websites and networks for ministries, departments and institutions of Provincial Council.

(5)Establishment and management of information communication technology infrastructure for allthe institutions of provincial Council.

(6)Providing computer education and training to officers of the Provincial Council.

(7)Taking necessary measures to popularize knowledge on information and communicationtechnology subject and computer science of the Province.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'065 APART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

(8)Providing technological counseling services and other assistances to institutions engaged inaffairs related information and communication technology resources development within theprovince.

(9)Providing services to private sector or other institutions expecting Authority's service withregard to information communication technology by charging a fee.

10.Powers of the Authority are as follows.

(1)Purchasing , take or give on lease or hire, mortgage, sell or otherwise dispose of any moveableor immoveable property for the purpose of discharging Authority's objectives and functions.

(2)To enter into contracts and agreements required for the implementation of Authority's powersand activate Authorities objectives.

(3)Creating a separately functioning business entity capable of implementing informationcommunication technological projects under the Authority and recruiting experts on informationand communication technology on permanent and assignment basis and making payments tothem as decided by the managements board by utilizing the revenue earned through the saidprojects.

(4)To levy and charge fee for the services provided by the Authority to provincial Council or toexternal parties under the recommendation of the management.

(5)Couducting research relating to development affairs in information and communicationtechnology field, assisting such researches, coordinating and encouraging them.

(6)Maintaining training affairs and educational affairs on entrepreneur skills relevant to informationTechnology field, implementation of programms to extend knowledge and information by wayof training programms, seminars, conferences, workshops and study tours.

(7)Maintaining sub - officers and centers required for the Authority on prior approval of theminister.

(8)Formulation of administrative and financial rules enabling accomplishment of objectives statedin above Section 9.

(9)Drafting service orders for Authority's employees, their performance appraisal and taking remedialmeasures required.

(10) Purchasing machines, plants and equipments required to achieve the objectives of the Authority.

(11) In accordance to National and Provincial Council policies, obtaining funds, technological

expertise knowledge or other aid.

(12) Investing certain amount of Authority's money opportunely, on the approval of minister in

charge of Finance.

11. (1)The Authority's seal shall be kept in the custody of the Director elected under the 13 (1)sentence of this statute.

(2)The Authority's seal shall not be affixed to any instrument or document, except in the presenceof two members in the management of the Authority who shall palce their signatures in the saidinstrument or document, in token of their presence.

Authority'sPowers

Seal of theAuthority

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'066 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

(3)The Authority shall maintain from the starting date a register of instruments and documents towhich the seal has been affixed.

12.The Minister in charge of the subject may give written orders to the Authority in respect ofaccomplishing objectives and implementation of powers of the Authority and the Authorityshall put such orders into effect.

PART III

Authority's Chief Executive Officer and Other Staff

13. (1)The Management Board shall appoint according to the approved recruitment procedure, aperson full time in service as the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority who shall be citedhereinafter in this statute as the ''Director''

(2)Supervision of Authority's affairs, organizing and implementation of Authority's powers, affairsand functions and administration of Authority's employees will be assigned to the Director,subjected to general provisions and control of the Management Board.

(3)The Authority may appoint other officers and employees it considers as essential to efficientlymaintain its duties subjected to the approved recruitment procedure.

(4)An officer engaged in public service may be appointed temporarily to the Authority's staff onthe request of the Authority and on the consent of such officer and its appointing authority, fora time period specified by the Authority.

PART IV

Authority's Funds and Accounts

14.There shall be a fund in the name of the Authority.

(1)Money appropriated by the Provincial Council to the Authority as grants,

(2)All the money regulated under this statute and collected,

(3)All the money accepted by the Authority as charges and fees,

(4)All the money received as donations, prizes or grants or in any other manner from sources in oroutside Sri Lanka,

(5)All the money received by selling, renting out, leasing out or disposing property, assets, goodsand equipment of the Authority,

(6)Money received from Provincial Council Fund or Local Government Authorities or from anyother institution to accomplish specific projects or functions,

(7)Money received as profit, installment or in any other manner by investing or depositingAuthority's money.

(8)Money received to the Authority by any other legal source;

shall be credited to the said Fund.

Minister's powersin respect of theAuthority

Authority's staff

Chief ExecutiveOfficer of theAuthority

Fund of theAuthority

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'067 APART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

15.Payments may be made from the Fund for the following matters.

(1)Emoluments payable to members of the Authority's Management Board,

(2)Salaries payable to officers and employee of the Authority,

(3)Payments and emoluments payable to service providers of the Authority,

(4)The expenses borne by the Authority in connection to implementation and accomplishment ofits powers, functions and duties.

16.Authority's Financial Year should be a calender year.

17.Accounts and books shall be maintained with regard to income and expenditure as well as ofassets and liabilities of the Authority.

18.Financial Statement for the year ending at 31st December in every year shall be prepared forevery financial year. Such statements shall be forwarded to the Auditor General prior to 31stMarch of the following year.

19.All the assets and properties of the Authority shall be subjected to a Board of Survey as at 31stDecember of every year.

20.Before the commencement of every year, having prepared an estimate for the relevant year,approval of the Management Board shall be obtained prior to the commencement of the year.

21.When the audited accounts and Auditor General's reports are received each year, those reports,along with a report including the functions performed by the Authority within the relevantfinancial year shall be forwarded to the minister and he shall take measures to present suchreports to the Provincial Council immediately.

PART V

General Matters

22. (1)The minister in charge of the subject may formulate regulations on a matter or on all mattersrelating to implementation, enforcement of powers and levying of charges under this statutewithout any detriment to powers assigned by this statute.

(2)Every regulation formulated by the minister in charge of the subject under this section shall bepublished in the Gazette paper and it shall be enforced from the date of such publishing or fromany other date stated in such regulation.

(3)Every regulation formulated by the minister in charge of the subject, within 06 months of itspublication in the Gazette, shall be submitted to the Provincial Council for approval and anyregulation which is not so approved by Provincial Council shall be deemed to be repealed fromthe date of its disapproval, but without any prejudice to anything previously done there under.

PART VI

Interim Provisions

23. (1)From the date of assent to this statute by Governor of Western Province, Information TechnologyResources Development Statute No. 06 of 2000 of Western Province shall hereby be repealed.

Payments fromthe Fund

Financial Year

FinancialStatements

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'068 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.2017

(2)Even so,

(a) all the moveable and immoveable property and

(b) all the assets and liabilities,

in possession of Western Provincial Information Technology Resources DevelopmentInstitute established under the Information Technology Resources Development StatuteNo. 06 of 2000 shall be considered as moveable and immoveable property, assets andliabilities of the Authority under this statute.

(3)Functions perfored under the Information Technology Resources Development Statute No. 06of 2000 shall be considered as functions accomplished under this statute.

(4)Futher, officers or employees of western Provincial Information Technology ResourcesDevelopment Institute established under the Information Technology Resources DevelopmentStatute No. 06 of 2000 shall be considered as officers or employees of this Authority.

24.In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires :

"Minister" means the minister in charge of the Information Technology subject of Western Province

Provincial Council.

25.In case of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this statute, Sinhala text shallprevail.

10 - 670

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Interpretations

Sinhala Text toprevail in case ofInconsistency