==== BLOCKS ==== 

අංංක 2472/21 - 2026 ජනවාාරි මස 21 වැැනි බදාාදාා - 2026.01.21No. 2472/21 - WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2026

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Notice under Section 8(9) of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981

Notice is hereby given, in terms of subsection 8 (9) of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, that the directions issued by the Election Commission for the purpose of giving effect to and ensuring the effective implementation of the recognition of a political party as a recognized political party for the conduct of elections referred to in section 7 of the said Act are set out in the Schedule hereto.

R.M.A.L. Rathnayake,Chairman,Election Commission.

M.A.P.C. Perera,Member,Election Commission.

Ameer Faaiz, Member,Election Commission.

A. Shanmuganathan, Member,Election Commission.

Prof. Lakshman Dissanayake, Member, Election Commission.

At the Election Commission,Sarana Mawatha,Rajagiriya,On this 13th day of January, 2026.

1A - PG 7485 - 48 (01/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙˤෂ

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20262A

Schedule

Directives issued under Section 8(9) of the Parliamentary Elections Act No. 1 of 1981, relating to the provisions of Section 7 of the Act in connection with the recognition as a political party.

Documents as per statutory provisionsCriteria

1. Constitution of the party1.1 Guidelines in regard to the preparation of the party constitution are given in the Annex 01 of this gazette notice. Relevant areas should be covered in the constitution of a political party accordingly.2. Office- bearers of the party2.1 All office- bearers should be appointed by the party by the day of making the application for the recognition of the political party.2.2 Women's representation in the party should be established by appointing at least one female to a major position of the party.2.3. Women's representation within the body of office- bearers of the party should be assured during the four years up to the last day for making application for the registration of political parties.2.4. When office- bearers/members representing other parties are present in the body of office-bearers of the party, without allying, information of such office bearers/members should be submitted.3. Audited Statements of Accounts3.1. Audited statements of accounts for 4 years up to the closing date for applications for party registration, should be submitted. Audited statements of accounts should be either for periods ending on December 31st or for periods ending on March 31st.3.2. Audit opinion is the attestation by a registered auditor that the income and expenditure and assets and liabilities of the political party, have been verified and that they have been correctly prepared. These audit reports have to be confirmed by at least two office-bearers out of the Treasurer / Secretary / Chairman of the party. Auditor should certify his opinion that the accounts of the party are being carried out following the audit standards, by placing his signature and official frank.3.3. Election Commission should be informed when the statement of accounts of the final year has not been finalized, and once it is finalized it should be informed immediately to the Election Commission. However, it is mandatory that the final audited statement should be presented at the interview conducted by the Election Commission.4. Current policy statement of the party4.1. It is essential that a policy statement should be there to reach the objectives and goals of the constitution of the party. The policy statement should be submitted as a separate document with the application.4.2. The policy statement needs to be passed with a simple majority of the central bureau / office -bearers of the party. Minutes of the meeting and the list of signatures should be submitted along with the policy statement.5. Name of the political party5.1. Name of the party making the application for recognition, should not be similar to any other recognized political party’s name. The name should not mislead in the identity of any other party's name and should not lead to any confusion with the name of any other party. Election Commission will decide upon the similarity appearing in the name.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2026

3A

Documents as per statutory provisions

6. Political Activities

Criteria

6.1. The political party should have a track record of active engagement in the protection of democracy, suffrage, rule of law, and rights of the people in the country.6.2. The party should have engaged in active politics during the 4 years preceding the final date given to make application for registration. A minimum number of 5 political activities should have been performed in each year out of which two should be major political activities, 6.2.1 Major political activities

6.2.1.1. A political party making application for recognition, should have contested independently, or in alliance with any other political party, during the previous four years. In order to prove this, following documents should be submitted:• Memorandum of Understanding with the relevant party• Copy of the letter sent by the secretary of the party which came into alliance and details of the votes received• Name of the District, local authority and the identity card number, name, telephone number and address of the candidate. When the election spans over two consecutive years, both years are counted as having contested the election. However, it depends on the fact that the election has been contested independently or in alliance.6.2.1.2. If a political party has held its annual conference and district meetings in a given year, and established its branches, they are considered as major political activities in the year concerned. In order to prove this, following material should be submitted:• Photographs, video clips• Letters of convening• Minutes of the meetings• Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of those participated and relevant documents • Venue, date, and time etc.6.2.1.3. Continuously printing of newspapers, magazines and periodicals to propagate the policy of the party, during the four years is considered as a major political activity. Certified copies of newspapers and periodicals in this regard should be submitted.• Magazines and newspapers should not be limited to the last year of the time period.• If the documents are forwarded by the members of the party, details of those members should be submitted. If such information is part of the activities of the political party, it should be specifically mentioned.• Information should be submitted when literature is issued commensuration the policy of the party.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20264A

6.2.1.4. The political party making the application may engage in or organize activities throughout the year concerned in addition to the relevant period in various national activities, or any political ideologies whether national or social, acceptable to the Election Commission. Such engagements for or against should be submitted with concrete evidence, which could be proved.6.2.1.5. A continuous program throughout the year to publicize the policy statements, principles and ideas of the political party island-wide throughout the country is considered as a major political activity. Details of meetings in the branches, various community groups, and awareness programs, establishment of youth, women and senior citizens should be submitted with the application.

6.2.2 Other political activities.

6.2.2.1. Active involvement in party activities or opposition activities related to the government policy.6.2.2.2. Active advocacy for public rights.6.2.2.3. The conduct of various educational programs or other activities related to democracy, right to vote, the protection of the rule of law in the country or any other related activities6.2.2.4. Creating awareness among the party activists and other people on gaining political power in the country.6.2.2.5. Activities of the elected members to implement the policies of the party in their representative bodies.6.2.2.6. Maintaining professional, youth, women's movements and proving that they are led by the party.6.2.2.7. Publication of the ideologies of the party in the name of the party are political activities. But they are not considered as major political functions. However, handing over memoranda continuously and issuing media announcements throughout the year, are considered as political activities.6.2.2.8. Engagement in environmental, social welfare, social services, professional activities, or any other political activity can be considered as political activities during the year. When such activities are carried out as multiple activities they can be considered as different activities pertaining to the relevant fields.6.2.3. Following activities are not considered as political activities

6.2.3.1. Receiving invitations or attending to other political parties' anniversaries or annual conventions, or attending public events or government meetings.6.2.3.2. Publicizing the party ideologies through social networks and personal accounts and limited groups is an activity of a year, but they are not considered as a major political activity. Party activists may maintain personal accounts, but they cannot be considered as political activities of the party.

Documents as per statutory provisions Criteria

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2026

5A

Documents as per statutory provisions Criteria

6.2.3.3. A leader or an office-bearer of the party may issue press/electronic media announcements regularly through social media networking or carrying out media conferences. They may be considered as an activity of the party, but carrying out such conference, announcement programs without public participation, or without anything happening on the ground, are not considered continuous political activities.6.2.3.4. Carrying out activities with organizations limited to particular fields, such as environment, religion, welfare, social services, trade unions cannot be considered as continuous political activities.6.2.3.5. Engaging in activities of organizations established for a limited purpose, such as environment, and do not cover the whole island,but covers a whole electoral district or whole administrative district can be considered as a political activity. However, a social services activity which covers only few villages in an electoral district, cannot be considered as a political activity. 6.3 It is mandatory that information on political activities is prepared separately for each year.6.4 All reports of political activities should be submitted with dates and venues.6.5 Dates and times of social media network, electronic media, and print media should be given so that information in the activities could be identified clearly.7. Documents to be submitted 7.1. Having completed the application given as Annex 02 to this Gazette notification, it should be sent by registered post or handed over to the Election Commission by the Secretary of the political party before the final date announced by the Commission and obtained a receipt.

Duly completed application should be signed by the Secretary of the party with two (02) copies of the following documents:

7.1.1 Constitution of the party7.1.2 List of office- bearers of a party.7.1.3 Names of female office bearers (for the previous 4 years).7.1.4 Audited statements of accounts.7.1.5. Current policy statement of the party.7.1.6. Documents to prove that the party had been actively functioning continuously at least for four previous years, should be submitted in separate files for each year.

7.2. It is mandatory that all documents/ reports related to above activities should be presented to the Election Commission whenever it asks for.

8. Applications which are incomplete and not to the satisfaction of the Election Commission, will be rejected, without subjecting them to any interview.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20266A

Annex 01

Guideline for Presenting Criteria for the Formulation of Political Party Constitutions

The Election Commission presents the following guidelines to all recognized political parties with the aim of introducing a unified framework for regulating political parties recognized for election purposes. This provides a unified direction to ensure the orderly internal governance of political parties and to guarantee equal opportunities for every member of the recognized political party, in accordance with democratic principles. By following these guidelines, political parties will have the opportunity to strengthen their internal governance, provide equal opportunities to all, and enhance public trust in democratic processes.

1. Party Constitution

Mandatory Provisions

1.1 Party Manifesto

It is stipulated that every party, at the time it is recognized, shall provide a copy of its provisional manifesto in accordance with Section 7(4)(C) of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, as amended by the Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 58 of 2009. However, while the objectives and purposes are stated separately in most party constitutions, the party policy itself is often not clearly presented. The party policy shall be clearly set out in the party constitution in a manner easily understandable to its followers. Such policy shall be free from discrimination based on race, caste, religion, or any form of communalism.

1.2 Objectives

The vision, mission, and goals of the party shall be clearly stated. The objectives and aims of the party shall also be clearly included therein in a manner consistent with the party policy.

1.3 Name of the Party The name and abbreviated name of the party shall be included in all three languages (Sinhala, Tamil, and English).

1.4 Membership Regulations

The qualifications for membership, the process for admission, and the procedures for termination of membership shall be set out in detail.

1.5 Core Values

It shall be formulated in a manner that safeguards the commitment to democracy, the rule of law, human rights, and social justice.

1.6 Internal Democracy

Procedures for electing party leaders and decision-making units of the party structure (Executive Council, Political Council, Supreme Council) shall be conducted according to the will of the majority.

1.7 Gender Equality

Ensure equal opportunities for leadership and representation in nominations, without creating barriers or engaging in discrimination.

1.8 Disciplinary Procedures

Introducing a clear framework for addressing grievances, disputes, and disciplinary matters in a systematic manner.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2026

7A

1.1 Code of Ethics

Formulation of a Code of Ethics for both members and leaders.

1.2 Amendment Procedures

Clearly define the steps for amending the constitution. Amendments made for personal gain shall be avoided. The constitution shall clearly specify the provisions that may be amended and those that may not be amended. After the amendment, the Election Commission shall be notified, and the party institution or office-bearer vested with authority to amend shall be specified.

2. Party Structure and Membership

2.1 Organizational Structure of the Party

The organizational structure of a political party shall be clearly defined. The structure shall be categorized into national, district, and local levels (or other levels unique to the party, if applicable), with a clear definition of the roles, decision-making bodies, and responsibilities at each level, as well as the responsibilities assigned to each tier.

2.2 Party Membership

The constitution of a recognized political party shall specify the procedures and qualifications for admission to membership, along with the rights and responsibilities of members.

The manner in which a member’s party membership may be terminated shall be clearly stated. Except in cases where a member resigns voluntarily, the party constitution shall clearly specify the procedure to be followed for terminating membership on grounds such as non-payment of membership fees, inactivity in party affairs, or misconduct, and shall clearly identify the party organ within the party organizational structure responsible for making the relevant decision.

The constitution shall also clearly specify whether a person who holds membership in one political party may obtain membership in another political party, and, where applicable, shall clearly state the conditions governing such membership.

2.3 Ensuring Equal Opportunities

Measures shall be taken to implement fair representation in respect of gender equality, youth participation, and the representation of communities with limited opportunities.

3. Governance and Decision-Making

In the decision-making processes of a political party, there shall be no ambiguity within the administrative hierarchy (including among party organizational units) nor any inconsistency in the exercise of powers.

The party constitution shall clearly and specifically state how the regional units composed of party members (local branches, electorate-level councils, district councils, and the national council), as well as the executive committee, political council, and supreme council, which are the decision-making units within the party’s internal hierarchy, are positioned within the hierarchy of authority, the limits of the powers that may be exercised by such units, and the manner in which such powers are to be exercised.

The administrative structure shall clearly specify, for each unit, the powers vested, the number of members, the authority to convene meetings, and the required quorum for decision-making.

The powers conferred on the party leader, the party chairman, or the party secretary to remove or recruit members, or to appoint or remove to or from various units of the party with veto power, shall not be exercised in a manner contrary to democratic principles and there must be a mechanism by which aggrieved parties can appeal such

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20268A

decisions, thereby safeguarding internal party democracy.

3.1 Holding the Party’s General Assembly

The General Assembly shall be held at least once every year. If for special reasons this is not possible, a transparent election to select the office bearers shall be held within two years.

Elections shall be conducted in accordance with the party’s code of conduct, with the relevant qualifications/criteria clearly specified. In adherence to natural justice and fairness, secret ballots shall be used, or, alternatively, any other process considered fair by the membership may be followed.

The relevant political party shall establish an independent election committee or mechanism to oversee the process.

3.2 Executive Board of the Party

Attention should be given to the following matters regarding the positions within the executive board of the party and the manner of appointment to each position.

3.2.1. Clearly specifying the positions within the party and the powers corresponding to each position.

3.2.2. Clearly specifying the method of appointment to the party positions and the powers attached to those positions.

3.2.3. Clearly specifying the removal from party positions and the procedure for such removal.

3.2.4. Clearly identifying the power of removal and the authority with that power.

3.2.5. Including at least one female representative among the key positions such as Chairperson, Secretary, and Treasurer.

3.2.6. Clearly specifying the method of filling vacancies in the party’s officer board.

3.3 Decision-Making Processes3.3.1 A transparent mechanisms shall be followed for decision-making.

3.3.2 Broad member participation shall be encouraged in decisions relating to critical party matters.

3.4 Meeting Procedures

3.4.1 Regular Meetings: Specify the intervals for regular meetings at national, district, and regional levels (e.g., quarterly, bi-monthly).

3.4.2 Emergency Meetings: Clarify the procedure for convening meetings for urgent matters and the binding nature of decisions made therein.

3.4.3 Annual General Meetings: Review political activities, present financial statements, and discuss party policies.

3.4.4 Meetings for Election of the Official Committee: Provide clear timelines and guidelines for the election of the officer board. The unit and position with the authority to convene such meetings shall be clearly specified.

3.4.5 Permanent Representative Meetings and Party Conventions: Clearly specify which officer/ party organizational unit holds the authority to convene these meetings, and the procedure for doing so.

3.4.6 It is mandatory to maintain detailed minutes and attendance records of all such meetings, and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2026

9A

the report of the party’s general assembly shall be submitted to the Election Commission within one month.

4 Administrative and Financial Management

4.1 Financial Accountability

Establish rules and procedures for fund management and conduct annual audits. Attention should be paid to matters such as issuing receipts for funds, banking of monies, and the administrative procedures within the party for ensuring transparency in these and other financial practices. All these activities must be conducted with transparent and accurate financial management, clearly documented and accessible to all party members.

Accurate records of sources of funds must be maintained to ensure transparency and to enable disclosure to the public when necessary.

4.2 Compliance with the Law

Actions shall be carried out in accordance with the general and special provisions issued under subsection 8(9) of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, as amended by the Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 58 of 2009, and in accordance with the other applicable laws and regulations.

4.3 Matters Relating to Party Discipline

The manner in which party discipline is enforced shall be clearly and unambiguously set out. It shall specify what constitutes a breach of discipline, the authority empowered to determine such breach, and the inquiries applicable to a breach of discipline. It is important that such inquiries are conducted in accordance with the principles of natural justice. The party organizational unit responsible for making decisions regarding party discipline, the procedures it follows, and the time frame for issuing the final decision shall be clearly specified.

4.4 Record Keeping

Updated membership lists, meeting minutes, and financial reports must be maintained.

5 Providing Opportunities for All and Representation

5.1 Inclusion of Gender Equality:

In addition to the representation of women appointed in accordance with the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, as amended by the Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 58 of 2009, a minimum quota for the appointment of women to leadership positions shall be prescribed. (For example: - Initially from 25% to 35%, which can be increased from 35% to 50% eventually.)

Monitoring compliance with gender equality measurements through annual reviews.

5.2 Representation of Youth, Disabled, and Marginalized Groups:

Reserving leadership positions for youth (under 35 years), disabled, and marginalized groups (e.g. 10%).

5.3 Regional representation:

Ensuring proportional representation from all districts in a manner that promotes regional-level representation.

6. Election Processes

6.1 Candidate Selection:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.202610A

Conducting a transparent democratic nomination process.

6.2 Campaign Regulations:

Implementing ethical campaign standards. Conducting campaigns in accordance with Commission regulations and guidelines.

7 Reporting and Monitoring

7.1 Annual Reporting

7.1.1 Submission of Audited Account Reports on the Due Date

We consider it essential to specify the accounting year in the constitution, clearly outline the party’s income and expenditure procedures, identify the auditor responsible for auditing the accounts at the beginning of the year, assign responsibility for the accounting process to the treasurer within the party constitution itself, and include in the audit report the documents examined during the audit.

7.1.2 Reports to be submitted to the Commission

Party secretaries are responsible for submitting reports to the Election Commission. At the beginning of each year, updating information such as the party’s office bearers, their phone numbers, and addresses, and providing these details to the Commission helps minimize coordination issues.

7.1.3 Post-Election Reporting

After every election, a report relating to election process shall be submitted to the Election Commission including information on the party’s representation, gender equality and youth participation.

7.1.4 Internal oversight

An audit or review committee should be established to ensure constitutional compliance.

7.1.5 Party Headquarters

Every recognized political party shall have a party headquarters with a permanent address to maintain continuous contact with the Election Commission, and any change of such address shall be notified to the Election Commission.

8 Model Constitution for Political Parties

Preamble This Constitution affirms the commitment of the (…Name of Party…) to safeguarding democratic values, providing opportunities to all, ensuring accountability, and upholding the rule of law in serving the citizens of Sri Lanka.

Party Introduction

1. Name, Vision, and Objectives : Defining the party’s identity and goals. 2. Membership : Establishing qualifications, rights, and disciplinary procedures. 3. Organizational Structure : Specifying the national, zonal, and regional levels. 4. Leadership Elections : Ensuring democratic processes that provide equal opportunities for all. 5. Meetings : Formality and transparency. 6. Financial Management : Safeguarding accountability and transparency 7. Code of Ethics : Promoting ethical conduct and discipline. 8. Amendments : Defining procedures for constitutional changes.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2026

11A

9. Reporting / Compliance : Commitment to transparency and accountability.

Implementation Steps;

1. Guideline Development : The party shall take all necessary steps to organize its constitution in accordance with these fundamental principles and submit it to the Election Commission. 2. Capacity Building : Conduct workshops on compliance, ensuring equal opportunities for all, and governance.3. Compliance Audits : Periodically review adherence to the guidelines. 4. Sanctions : Enforce penalties for non-compliance, including suspension of recognition or funds.

Providing a robust approach to enhancing the operations of political parties with transparency, ensuring equal opportunities for all, and guaranteeing adherence to democratic values and the laws of Sri Lanka.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.202612A

Annex 02Election CommissionParliamentary Election Act No 1 of 1981Recognition of Political Parties – 2026

1. Name of the political party:

(It is compulsory that the name is written in all three languages – Sinhala, Tamil, English)

i. Sinhala : - ………………………………………………………………………ii. Tamil : - ……………………………………………………………………….iii. English: - ……………………………………………………………………….

2. Proposed party symbol: ……………………………………………………………….

(Symbol should be selected from the symbols listed in a Schedule (B) of the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2471/24 dated 13.01.2026)

3. Address of the party office:……………………………………………………………..

4. Telephone number of the party office:…………………………………………………..

4.1 Landline - …………………………………………………….4.2 Fax No -……………………………………………………….

4.3 Email -…………………………………………………………

5. Name of the secretary to the party:……………………………………………………….

6. NIC number of the secretary:…………………………………………………………….

7. Address of the party secretary:……………………………………………………………

8. Telephone number of the party secretary:

Mobile No: …………………………………….

Landline No: …………………………………..

9. Email address of the party secretary:…………………………………………………………..

10. If an application had been made previously for recognition of the party:

10.1 Year of application ………………………………………………………………………..10.2 Name of the party as appeared in the application………………………………………… 10.3 Date on which the application was rejected ………………………………………………

11. Documents to be submitted with the application form (All documents should be prepared in two copies and numbered, in order, and submitted separately):

DocumentsYesNo

11.1Constitution of the party

11.2List of the office- bearers of the party

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2026

13A

DocumentsYesNo

11.3Names of female office- bearers (in the previous 04 years)

11.4Statements of accounts audited by a registered auditor (for four years immediately preceding the year of application)11.5Current policy statement of the party

11.6Documents to prove that the party had been actively functioning continuously at least for four previous years, should be submitted in separate files for each year.

12. When the application for recognition is made under 7(5)(b)(ii) (A)or (B) following information need to be provided:

12.1. Has the party contested independently or in alliance? ……………………………………………………………

12.2. If so, the electoral districts contested: ………………………………………………….…………………………

12.3. Number of seats secured: …………………………………………………………………………………………

12.4. If contested in alliance, name of the party/alliance allied with:………………………...…………………………

12.5. If the members of the party contested in alliance;

12.5.1. Number of members so contested:………………………………………..…………………………12.5.2. Details of the contestants :……………………………………………………………………………

Index No.Name of the member contestedAddressDistrict contested

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

12.6. Certified copy of the letter/MOU appended

I declare that the documents regarding the …........................................(Name of political party) party are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.

Date:.................... …………………………….. Signature of the Party Secretary

EOG 01 - 0220 Official Frank

YesNO

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.