I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hw;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notiﬁ cations

wxl 2454$41 – 2025 iema;eïn¾ ui 17 jeks nodod – 2025'09'17No. 2454/41 – WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2025

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – G 045399 – 18 (09/2025)

My No.: id.s$j;=$6$2023.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Janatha Estates Development Board - No. 55/75, Vauxhall Lane, Colombo 02 of the one part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the other part on 14th July 2023 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

H.M.D.N.K. Wൺඍൺඅංඒൺൽൽൺ, Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour.Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05, 02nd day of September, 2025.

Collective Agreement No. 36(5) of 2023

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 2A

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - MAINTENANCE & SUPPORT STAFF

This Collective Agreement made and entered into between The Janatha Estates Development Board, No.55/75 Vauxhall Lane, Colombo 2 of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union of No.6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, of the Second Part, on this 14th day of July, Two Thousand and Twenty-Three witnessed as follows:-

1. TITLE

This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Maintenance & Support Staﬀ Collective Agreement.

2. EMPLOYERS COVERED AND BOUND

This Agreement shall cover and bind the management of Janatha Estates Development Board, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst part for and respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.

3. UNIONS AND EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND

This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by Janatha Estates Development Board on monthly contracts of employment and in respect of categories of employees given in Schedule I, hereon.

4. EARLIER AGREEMENTS

The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the 'disputes committee' and thereafter to the Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is not resolved before the 'disputes committee', but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.

5. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION

Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be eﬀ ective from 01st October 2022 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party by giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give such notice to the other before 30th September 2025.

6. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 01st October 2022 and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from the said date.

ii. Grading of employees shall be at the discretion of the Employer.

iii. All employees covered by this Agreement on completion of 15 years of service under the same employer shall be granted an additional Rs. 100/- annual increment.

iv. Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to enjoy same.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 3A

7. FIRST APPOINTMENT

i. No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he/she has required knowledge and experience in the trade.

ii. All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ ed in Schedule I hereof.

8. PROBATION

On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not being extended after the period of six months, the employee shall be deemed to be conﬁ rmed, notwithstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation, the Employer shall have the right to terminate his/her services without notice or assigning reasons therefor.

9. ATTENDANCE AT WORK

Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by the Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.

10. SALARIES

(1) The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be revised as follows:

i. With eﬀ ect from 01st October 2022, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment shall be increased by 25% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.

ii. With eﬀ ect from 01st October 2024, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment, shall be increased by 5% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.

iii. Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6(i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound shall pay the revised salaries in the month of October 2022.

iv. In the case of Storekeepers/Maintenance Support staﬀ who are entitled to an allowance on account of work as a Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 15% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.

v. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule I of this Agreement.

(2) i. With eﬀ ect from date hereof, employees covered by this Agreement, who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment of Rs. 1,500/- per month.

ii In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the employer such person shall be liable to disciplinary action.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 4A

11. ANNUAL INCREMENTS

i. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year's service. The increments will be awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.

ii. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general ineﬃ ciency, after the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.

iii. Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to all employees in employment as on 01st October 2022.

Lorry/Tractor Driver/ Electrician/Mechanic/ Motor Mechanic/ Blacksmith/Carpenter/ Engine Driver/ Driver/Mechanic/ Welder/Car Driver/ Backhoe Operator/ Electrical Foreman/ power House operator/Boiler operator/ Tea sales Assistant Rs.775/=

All employees on completion of 15 years' service Rs.875/=

12. HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME

i. The decisions of the relevant Wages Board shall apply.

ii. If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer. Rates of overtime shall be according to the decisions of the relevant Wages Board.

13. WEEKLY AND POYA HOLIDAYS

An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays and half-holidays as per the relevant Wages Board decisions.

14. HOLIDAYS

i. All employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to the following Eight (8) holidays:

Tamil Thai Pongal Day National Day Day Prior to Sinhala and Tamil New Year Sinhala and Tamil New Year Day May Day Day Following Vesak Full Moon Poya Day Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi) Christmas Day

ii. Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated according to the decisions of the relevant wages boards.

15. LEAVE

1. Annual Leave - Employees presently enjoying 14 days annual leave shall continue to do so. Others will receive annual holidays in accordance with the relevant Wages Board decisions applicable to them. Annual leave not utilized in any one year shall not be carried over to the next year

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 5A

2. Casual Leave All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not utilized in any one year will not be carried over to the next year.

3. (i) Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over, a Medical Certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a Medical Certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.

(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition, however, that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave, he shall be permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.

16. ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS

i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's notice, in writing.

ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one Division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of children's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three (3) calendar months' notice, in writing, on or before 30th September.

iii Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the ﬁ rst time will not be transferred in that particular year.

iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 1 in School also will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

v No transfers shall be eﬀ ected from one Company to another managed by the Janatha Estates Development Board, without the consent of the employee.

vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his retirement.

vii The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii) (iii) and (iv) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.

17. AGE OF RETIREMENT

The age of retirement will be as per the provisions of the Minimum Retirement Age of Workers Act No. 28 of 2021.

Provided that, an employer may pre-maturely retire an employee on the grounds as provided for in

the Act, referred above.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 6A

18. GRATUITY

Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983.

19. DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES

i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay, he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner of the reasons for such suspension within three days of the actual suspension.

ii An employee may also be suspended with pay, pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management deems that such measure is necessary.

iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show-cause' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Where necessary, the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.

iv If the Employer is satisﬁ ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and where appropriate, he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show-cause' letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the Employer from doing so.

v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the beneﬁ t of such representation, he shall inform the Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the ﬁ ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall the ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.

vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justiﬁ cation for summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

20. SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES

i An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month, pending a disciplinary inquiry when there is primafacie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.

ii Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (i) above for any period in excess of one month shall be on half pay

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 7A

iii The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit veriﬁ cations.

21. SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT

i Punishment for oﬀ ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided, however, that such suspension shall not exceed fourteen (14) days without pay and shall be in writing.

ii Punishment in excess of three days' suspension, without pay, shall only be after a domestic inquiry.

22. VARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND DISPUTES

i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.

ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ t, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption of electricity, where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.

iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner-General of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.

iv It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members shall not resort to any form of Trade Union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

23. DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE

It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Committee will meet once in three months to resolve any dispute that may arise in relation to any violation of the provisions of this Agreement. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks' notice, if requested by either party.

Decisions arrived at the Dispute Resolution Committee shall be implemented within a period agreed between the parties.

24. DUTY LEAVE

i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other oﬃ ce bearer of the Parent Union will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.

ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated oﬃ ce bearer of the Parent Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (i) above, the Federation will attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable settlement between parties.

iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in any one year.

iv By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman and Sub-Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two oﬃ ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 8A

vi Duty leave shall be granted to one employee selected from amongst all staﬀ categories per estate selected by the union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the union or any other labour related institute on not more than two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding four (4) days. The Union shall inform the Employers in writing the requirement of duty leave required in terms of this clause.

Part II

1. The Janatha Estates Development Board covered and bound by this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in the situation of amalgamation/sub-leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations. However, the Janatha Estate Development Board will continue to be the employer of such employees..

2. Electricity

Free electricity would be granted to staﬀ on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation) - 100 units

Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation) - 130 units

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in six months on the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each estate.

Kerosene - The Employer shall provide 25 liters Kerosen per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions without electricity.

3. Tea Allowance

The Employer shall provide 1½ kgs of tea free of charge to members of estate staﬀ (including future recruits in those categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

The staﬀ members could purchase, in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP, whichever is lower.

Staﬀ members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992, would be entitled to purchase a maximum of 3 kg. at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA, whichever is lower with eﬀ ect from 1st June 2003.

4. Death Grant

i With eﬀ ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ member, the Dependents will be paid a sum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs.200,000/=) as funeral expenses.

ii The Dependents of the deceased staﬀ member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to three months' salary within one month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the Dependents hand over the staﬀ quarters.

iii If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ member, the Dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to three months' salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ member.

5. Medical Aid Scheme

i The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers' contribution shall be 10%. ii A staﬀ member who is a member of the staﬀ medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 9A

her employment from the estate.

6. Union Subscription

i The Employer agrees, on the written request of an employee, to deduct from the wages due to such employee, the current monthly union subscription as speciﬁ ed by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by the following month until such time the employee maintains his request.

ii In the event of the union being representative of less than 40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of check-oﬀ would be made thereafter.

INTERPRETATION

Word Meaning

Union means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.

Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.

Employer means Janatha Estates Development Board

Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.

Year means a continuous period of 12 months.

Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

In Witness where of the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands at Colombo on this 14th day of July, Two Thousand and Twenty - Three.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 10A

SCHEDULE-I

CATEGORIES OF EMPLOYEES - MAINTENANCE & SUPPORT STAFF

DESIGNATIONSTARTING SALARYANNUAL INCREMENT FOR 2023/2024/2025Lorry/Tractor Driver/ Electrician/Mechanic/ Motor Mechanic/ Blacksmith/Carpenter/ Engine Driver/Driver/Mechanic/Welder/Car Driver/ Backhoe Operator/ Electrical Foreman/ power House operator/ Boiler operator/ Tea sales Assistant

RS.29,000RS.775.00

All Employees on Completion of 15 Years' Service Placed on Grade IRs.29,000RS.875.00

EOG 09 - 0172

__________________________________________

My No.: id.s$j;=$6$2023.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Janatha Estates Development Board - No. 55/75, Vauxhall Lane, Colombo 02 of the one part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the other part on 14th July 2023 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

H.M.D.N.K. Wൺඍൺඅංඒൺൽൽൺ, Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour.Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05, 02nd day of September, 2025.

Collective Agreement No. 36(3) of 2023

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - SUPERVISORY STAFF

This Collective Agreement made and entered into between The Janatha Estates Development Board, No. 55/75 Vauxhall Lane, Colombo 2 of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staﬀ s' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, of the Second Part, on this 14th day of July, Two Thousand and Twenty Three witnessed as follows:-

1. TITLE

This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Supervisory Staﬀ Collective Agreement.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 11A

2. EMPLOYERS COVERED AND BOUND

This Agreement shall bind the management of Janatha Estates Development Board, whose name is mentioned as ﬁ rst part for and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.

3. UNION AND EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND

This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by Janatha Estates Development Board on monthly contracts of employment and in respect of categories of employees given in Schedule I, hereon.

4. EARLIER AGREEMENTS

The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the 'disputes committee' and thereafter to the Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter is not resolved before the 'disputes committee', but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.

5. DATE OF OPERATION AND DURATION

Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be eﬀ ective from 01st October 2022 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party by giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give such notice to the other before 30th September 2025.

6. GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 01st October 2022 and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with eﬀ ect from the said date.

ii. Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.

iii Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer Junior Asst. Field Oﬃ cer shall be re-designated as Asst. Field Oﬃ cer with a minimum of one (1) increment.

iv Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer and 20 years' experience in the industry, Field Oﬃ cer shall be re-designated as Special Grade Field Oﬃ cer with a minimum of one (1) increment.

v Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to enjoy same.

7. FIRST APPOINTMENT

i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in the trade.

ii All designations of new recruits should be as speciﬁ ed under Schedule I hereof.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 12A

8. PROBATION

On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justiﬁ able cause. Conﬁ rmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not being extended after the period of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be conﬁ rmed notwithstanding there being no letter of conﬁ rmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate his/her services without notice or assigning reasons therefor.

9. ATTENDANCE AT WORK

Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.

10. PROMOTIONS

i. Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualiﬁ cations to make them eligible.

ii. Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is conﬁ rmed in the senior capacity, he will not be required to serve a period of probation.

iii. Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of Rupees Two Thousand Five Hundred (Rs.2,500/-) per mensem. When conﬁ rmed, this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.

iv. When promoting an employee to a senior position, a salary increase of minimum one (1) of increment shall be granted.

v. If an employee obtains a work-related course certiﬁ cate from, National Institute of Plantation Management (other than the courses initiated by the company) as approved by the management, such employee shall be granted special increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered for a higher position.

vi. Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months and during that period the employer shall pay the employee 10% of the employees' basic salary as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential beneﬁ ts such as EPF and ETF.

11. SALARIES

1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be revised as follows:

i With eﬀ ect from 01st October 2022, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment shall be increased by 25% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.

ii. With eﬀ ect from 01st October 2024, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment, shall be increased by 5% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.

iii Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6(i) above, the Janatha Estates Development Board covered and bound shall pay the revised salaries in the month of October 2022.

iv. In the case of Storekeepers/Supervisory staﬀ who are entitled to an allowance on account of work as a Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 15% of the salary

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 13A

drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.

v. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule I of this Agreement.

vi Employees who reaches the maximum salary point depicted in the scale will continue to receive annual increments if they continue to remain within the same category.

2. i. With eﬀ ect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staﬀ quarters being provided to them shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and the revised allowance will be as follows:

Junior Asst. Field Oﬃ cer - Rs. 1,350/= + 10% = Rs 1 ,500/=

Asst. Field Oﬃ cer - Rs. 1,450/= + 10% = Rs 1 ,600/=

Field Oﬃ cer - Rs.1,850/= + 10% = Rs. 2 ,050/=

Field Oﬃ cer Special Grade - Rs. 1,900/= + 10% = Rs. 2,100/=

ii. In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable to disciplinary action.

12. ANNUAL INCREMENTS

i Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year's service. The increments will be awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees, in the event of an employee being conﬁ rmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.

ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general ineﬃ ciency, after the employee has been notiﬁ ed in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.

iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to all employees in employment as on 01st October 2022.

Junior Asst. Field Oﬃ cer Rs. 775/=

Asst. Field Oﬃ cer Rs. 925/=

Field Oﬃ cer Rs. 1,675/=

Field Oﬃ cer Special Grade Rs.2,125/=

13. WEEKLY AND POYA HOLIDAYS

The working week shall be 6 days or 48 hours. One day each week shall be allowed as oﬀ day. Work on the weekly oﬀ day, statutory holiday shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 (two hundred forty) multiplied by 1½ (one and half) times.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 14A

14. HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME

i. The working week shall be six days of forty eight hours. One day each week shall be allowed as an oﬀ day. Work on the weekly oﬀ day or in excess of forty eight hours per week or nine hours per day shall be deemed to be overtime.

ii. If required by his employer, an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the employer. Each hour of overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by two hundred and forty (240) multiplied by one and a half (1 1/2) times.

15. HOLIDAYS

i. All employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to the following six (6) holidays:

Tamil Thai Pongal Day National Day Day Prior to Sinhala & Tamil New Year Sinhala & Tamil New Year Day May Day Day Following Vesak Full Moon Poya Day Holy Prophet's Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi) Christmas Day

ii. Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated guided by the decisions of the relevant wages boards.

16. LEAVE

1) Annual Leave -Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the ﬁ rst year the leave entitlement shall be on a proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid annual leave as a special beneﬁ t: This right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September 1993. Annual leave not utilized in any one year shall not be carried over to the next year

2) Casual Leave - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not utilized in any one year will not be carried over to the next year.

3) (i) Sick Leave - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certiﬁ cate. For leave of three days and over, a medical certiﬁ cate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certiﬁ cate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.

(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.

4) Maternity Leave - Maternity Leave will be granted as per the provisions of the Maternity Beneﬁ ts Ordinance.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 15A

17. ADMINISTRATIVE TRANSFERS

i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's notice in writing.

ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of children's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three calendar months' notice in writing, on or before 30th September.

iii Employees, whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the ﬁ rst time, will not be transferred in that particular year.

iv Transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 1 in school also will be considered, on a case-by-case basis.

v No employee shall be transferred from one Company to another managed by the Janatha Estates Development Board, without the consent of the employee.

vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his retirement.

vii The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii) (iii) and (iv) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.

18. AGE OF RETIREMENT

The age of retirement will be as per the provisions of the Minimum Retirement Age of Workers Act No.28 of 2021

Provided that, an employer may pre-maturely retire an employee on the grounds as provided for in the Act, referred above.

19. GRATUITY

Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

20. DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES

i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notiﬁ ed in a general manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.

ii An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management deems that such measure is necessary.

iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show cause' notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 16A

iv If the Employer is satisﬁ ed with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the employer from doing so.

v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the beneﬁ t of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the Inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the ﬁ ndings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justiﬁ cation for the delay. In no case shall ﬁ ndings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If no ﬁ ndings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.

vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justiﬁ cation for summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

21. SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES

i An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him.

ii Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (i) above for any period in excess of one month shall be on half pay.

iii The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Veriﬁ cations.

22. SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT

i Punishment for oﬀ ences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry. Such suspension shall be in writing.

23. VARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND DISPUTES

i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.

ii Any employee enjoying a beneﬁ t which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as personal, but this beneﬁ t shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption of electricity, where a limit is ﬁ xed for all employees.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 17A

iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of Labour under the Industrial disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.

iv It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

24. DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE

It is agreed by parties that a Disputes Resolution Committee' will meet once in three months to resolve any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions of this agreement, if required. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks' notice. Decisions arrived at the Disputes Resolution Committee shall be implemented within an agreed period between the parties,

25. DUTY LEAVE

i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other oﬃ ce bearer of the Parent Union will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.

ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated oﬃ ce bearer of the Parent Union, as speciﬁ ed in sub clause (i) above, the Federation will attempt to eﬀ ect an amicable settlement between parties.

iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in any one year.

iv By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman and Sub-Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two oﬃ ce bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

vi Duty leave shall be granted to one employee selected from amongst all staﬀ categories per estate selected by the union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the union or any other labour related institute on not more than two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding four (4) days. The Union shall inform the Employers in writing the requirement of duty leave required in terms of this clause.

Part II

1. The Janatha Estates Development Board covered and bound by this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations. However, the Janatha Estate Development Board will continue to be the employer of such employees.

2. Electricity

Free electricity would be granted to members of staﬀ on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior staﬀ - 140 units

Junior staﬀ - 100 units

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 18A

Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior staﬀ - 170 units

Junior staﬀ - 130 units

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated ﬁ gure at the rate that costs each estate.

Kerosene - Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions without electricity.

3. Tea Allowance

The employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staﬀ (including future recruits in those categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Senior staﬀ - 2 Kgs.

Junior staﬀ - 1½ Kgs.

The staﬀ members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP whichever is lower.

Staﬀ members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled to purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with eﬀ ect from 1st June 2003.

4. Death Grant

1. With eﬀ ect from the date hereof, on the death of a staﬀ member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rupees Two Hundred Thousand (Rs.200,000/=) as funeral expenses.

2. The dependents of the deceased staﬀ member will be paid a 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months' salary within one month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependents hand over the staﬀ quarters.

3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staﬀ member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months' salary within one month of the death of the staﬀ member.

5. Medical Aid Scheme

1. The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers' contribution shall be 10%.

2. A staﬀ member who is a member of the staﬀ medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment from the estate.

6. Union Subscription

i The Employer agrees, on the written request of an employee, to deduct from the wages due to such employee, the current monthly union subscription as speciﬁ ed by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by the following month till such time the employee maintains his request.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 19A

ii In the event of the union being representative of less than 40% of the employees, no remittance in respect of check-oﬀ would be made thereafter.

INTERPRETATION

Word Meaning

Union means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.

Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.

Employer means Janatha Estates Development Board

Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.

Year means a continuous period of 12 months.

Gender a reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'09'17Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.09.2025 20A

SCHEDULE-I

CATAGORIES OF EMPLOYEES - SUPERVISARY STAFF

DESIGNATIONSTARTING SALARYANNUAL INCREMENT FOR 2023/2024/2025Junior Asst. Field Oﬃ cerRs. 30,000.00Rs. 775.00Asst. Field Oﬃ cerRs. 31,000.00Rs. 925.00Field Oﬃ cerRs. 32,000.00Rs. 1675.00Special Grade Field Oﬃ cerRs. 37,000.00Rs. 2125.00

EOG 09 - 0173

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.