==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2074$11 - 2018 cqks ui 05 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2018'06'05No. 2074/11 - TUESDAY JUNE 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

PRESIDENTIAL DIRECTIVE

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA.

APPOINTMENT of a Task Force chaired by His Excellency the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka in the exercise of powers vested in His Excellency by Article 33 of the Constitution of Sri Lanka to direct, coordinateand monitor the development activities in the Northern and Eastern Provinces.

1. Honourable Ranil Wickremesinghe - Prime Minister & Minister of National Policies & Economic Affairs2. Honourable Mangala Samaraweera - Minister of Finance and Mass Media3. Honourable D. M. Swaminathan - Minister of Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northen Development & HinduReligious Affairs4. Honourable Mano Ganesan - Minister of National Integration, Reconciliation and Official Languages5. Honourable Kabir Hashim - Minister of Highways & Road Development6. Honourable Ranjith Siyambalapitiya - Minister of Power and Renewable Energy7. Honourable Gayantha Karunathilaka - Minister of Lands & Parliamentary Reforms8. Honourable (Dr.) Rajitha Senaratne - Minister of Health, Nutrition & Indigenous Medicine9. Honourable Sajith Premadasa - Minister of Housing & Construction10. Honourable Mahinda Samarasinghe - Minister of Ports & Shipping11. Honourable Vijith Vijayamuni Soysa - Minister of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources Development and RuralEconomic Affairs12. Honourable Mahinda Amaraweera - Minister of Agriculture13. Honourable Rishad Bathiudeen - Minister of Industry & Commerce14. Honourable (Dr.) Sarath Amunugama - Minister of Science, Technology, Research, Skills Development &Vocational Training and Kandyan Heritage15. Honourable Rauff Hakeem - Minister of City Planning and Water Supply16. Honourable Duminda Dissanayake - Minister of Irrigation & Water Resources & Disaster Management17. Honourable Reginold Cooray - Governor of the Northern Province18. Honourable Rohitha Bogollagama - Governor of the Eastern Province19. Honourable C. V. Wigneswaran - Chief Minister of Northern Provincial Council20. Honourable Chief Minister - Eastern Provincial Council

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Seal

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A- G 27815 —67 (06/2018)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20182A

21. Honourable A. H. M. Fowzie - State Minister of National Unity & Coexistence22. Honourable K. Kader Masthan - Member of Parliament (Wanni)23. Mr. Austin Fernando - Secretary to the President24. Mr. E. M. S. B. Ekanayake - Secretary to the Prime Minister25. Dr. R. H. S. Samaratunga - Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and Mass Media26. Mr. P. Suresh - Secretary to the Ministry of Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northern Development & HinduRegligious Affairs27. Mr. M. Y. S. Deshapriya - Secretary to the Ministry of National Integration, Reconciliation & Official Languages28. Mr. D. C. Dissanayake - Secretary to the Ministry of Highways & Road Development29. Dr. B. M. S. Batagoda - Secretary to the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy30. Mr. W. H. Karunarathna - Secretary to the Ministry of Lands & Parliamentary Reforms31. Mr. P. H. J. B. Sugathadasa - Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition & Indigenous Medicine32. Mr. L. P. Jayampathy - Secretary to the Ministry of Ports & Shipping33. Mrs. D. K. R. Ekanayake - Secretary to the Ministry of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources Development and RuralEconomic Affairs34. Mr. B. Wijayaratne - Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture35. Mr. K. D. N. R. Asoka - Secretary to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce36. Mrs. W. M. K. S. D. Wijayabandara - Secretary to the Ministry of Science, Technology, Research, SkillsDevelopment & Vocational Training and Kandyan Heritage37. Mr. Bernard Wasantha - Secretary to the Ministry of Housing & Construction38. Mr. D. G. M. V. Hapuarachchi - Secretary to the Ministry of City Planning and Water Supply39. Mr. N. A. Sisira Kumara - Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources & Disaster Management40. Mr. A. Pathinathan - Chief Secretary, Northern Province41. Mr. D. M. Sarath Abayagunawardana - Chief Secretary, Eastern Province42. Lieutenant General N. U. M. M. W. Senanayake - Commander of the Sri Lanka Army43. Vice Admiral Sirimevan Ranasinghe - Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy44. Air Marshal Kapila Jayampathy - Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force45. Mr. Pujitha Jayasundara - Inspector General of Police46. Major General Darshana Hettiarachchi - Commander, Security Forces Head Quarters - Jaffna47. Major General Santhusitha Pananwala - Commander, Security Forces Head Quarters - East48. Director General of Civil Security Department

Greetings !

Whereas the Government is desirous of establishing a Task Force to -

review the development projects so far launched in the Northern and Eastern Provinces in Sri Lanka sincethe end of the 26 year long conflict.

accelerate the development process under way in the said provinces.

provide necessary guidance and advice in relation to the development activities launched by the Governmentin the said provinces,

And whereas it is considered that the development process is essential to ensure National Unity and Integrationand creation of a balanced socio-economic and income growth ;

Now, Therefore, I, Maithripala Sirisena, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 33 of the Constitution of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity,do by these presents, appoint you the said :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20183A

1. Honourable Ranil Wickremesinghe - Prime Minister & Minister of National Policies & Economic Affairs2. Honourable Mangala Samaraweera - Minister of Finance and Mass Media3. Honourable D. M. Swaminathan - Minister of Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northen Development & HinduReligious Affairs4. Honourable Mano Ganesan - Minister of National Integration, Reconciliation and Official Languages5. Honourable Kabir Hashim - Minister of Highways & Road Development6. Honourable Ranjith Siyambalapitiya - Minister of Power and Renewable Energy7. Honourable Gayantha Karunathilaka - Minister of Lands & Parliamentary Reforms8. Honourable (Dr.) Rajitha Senaratne - Minister of Health, Nutrition & Indigenous Medicine9. Honourable Sajith Premadasa - Minister of Housing & Construction10. Honourable Mahinda Samarasinghe - Minister of Ports & Shipping11. Honourable Vijith Vijayamuni Soysa - Minister of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources Development and RuralEconomic Affairs12. Honourable Mahinda Amaraweera - Minister of Agriculture13. Honourable Rishad Bathiudeen - Minister of Industry & Commerce14. Honourable (Dr.) Sarath Amunugama - Minister of Science, Technology, Research, Skills Development &Vocational Training and Kandyan Heritage15. Honourable Rauff Hakeem - Minister of City Planning and Water Supply16. Honourable Duminda Dissanayake - Minister of Irrigation & Water Resources & Disaster Management17. Honourable Reginold Cooray - Governor of the Northern Province18. Honourable Rohitha Bogollagama - Governor of the Eastern Province19. Honourable C. V. Wigneswaran - Chief Minister of Northern Provincial Council20. Honourable Chief Minister - Eastern Provincial Council21. Honourable A. H. M. Fowzie - State Minister of National Unity & Coexistence22. Honourable K. Kader Masthan - Member of Parliament (Wanni)23. Mr. Austin Fernando - Secretary to the President24. Mr. E. M. S. B. Ekanayake - Secretary to the Prime Minister25. Dr. R. H. S. Samaratunga - Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and Mass Media26. Mr. P. Suresh - Secretary to the Ministry of Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northern Development & HinduRegligious Affairs27. Mr. M. Y. S. Deshapriya - Secretary to the Ministry of National Integration, Reconciliation & Official Languages28. Mr. D. C. Dissanayake - Secretary to the Ministry of Highways & Road Development29. Dr. B. M. S. Batagoda - Secretary to the Ministry of Power and Renewable Energy30. Mr. W. H. Karunarathna - Secretary to the Ministry of Lands & Parliamentary Reforms31. Mr. P. H. J. B. Sugathadasa - Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition & Indigenous Medicine32. Mr. L. P. Jayampathy - Secretary to the Ministry of Ports & Shipping33. Mrs. D. K. R. Ekanayake - Secretary to the Ministry of Fisheries & Aquatic Resources Development and RuralEconomic Affairs34. Mr. B. Wijayaratne - Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture35. Mr. K. D. N. R. Asoka - Secretary to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce36. Mrs. W. M. K. S. D. Wijayabandara - Secretary to the Ministry of Science, Technology, Research, SkillsDevelopment & Vocational Training and Kandyan Heritage37. Mr. Bernard Wasantha - Secretary to the Ministry of Housing & Construction38. Mr. D. G. M. V. Hapuarachchi - Secretary to the Ministry of City Planning and Water Supply39. Mr. N. A. Sisira Kumara - Secretary, Irrigation and Water Resources & Disaster Management40. Mr. A. Pathinathan - Chief Secretary, Northern Province41. Mr. D. M. Sarath Abayagunawardana - Chief Secretary, Eastern Province42. Lieutenant General N. U. M. M. W. Senanayake - Commander of the Sri Lanka Army43. Vice Admiral Sirimevan Ranasinghe - Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy44. Air Marshal Kapila Jayampathy - Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force45. Mr. Pujitha Jayasundara - Inspector General of Police46. Major General Darshana Hettiarachchi - Commander, Security Forces Head Quarters - Jaffna47. Major General Santhusitha Pananwala - Commander, Security Forces Head Quarters - East48. Director General of Civil Security Department

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20184A

as members of the Presidential Task Force chaired by me to direct, coordinate and monitor the Northern and Easternprovincial development and direct you to take all such steps as may be considered necessary to proceed with theimplementation of the tasks as set out at (a) to (g) below :

(a) To review status of progress of various sectoral plans, programmes and projects now being implemented in theNorthern and Eastern Provinces.

(b) To initiate and formulate new plans, programmes and projects targeting sectors and groups that need priorityattention, and facilitate finances for projects/programmes and other actions.

(c) To intervene and direct as necessary, in matters relating to all development activities in the Provinces.

(d) To encourage and enlist the support and participation of the private sector, by-lateral and multilateral developmentinstitutions, for investing and implementing development projects and programmes in the two Provinces.

(e) To coordinate work between the Government and Provincial administrations and between Public and PrivateSectors and non-governmental and civil society sections.

(f) To carry out overall monitoring of the implementation of the development activities in the regions.

(g) To identify any constraints which impede expeditious implementation of development programmes in the regionsand advise the relevant authorities on speedy solutions to overcome them.

And, I, further appoint Mr. V. Sivagnanasothy as Secretary to the Task Force

AND I, do hereby authorize the Task Force which is established to issue instructions made such inquiries andinvestigate such matters as may be considered necessary in relation to the execution of the tasks the said Task Force ishereby entrusted with ;

AND I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other officers to whom the Task Force which isestablished to direct, coordinate and monitor the development activities in the Northern and Eastern Provinces may issueinstructions or apply for assistance for information to comply with such information, render all such assistance and furnishall such information as may be properly complied with, rendered and furnished in that behalf.

Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the day of 05th of June inthe year Two Thousand and Eighteen

By His Excellency's command,

SUMITH ABEYSINGHE,Acting Secretary to the President.

06- 802

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.