==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.04.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2065$62 - 2018 wfma%,a ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'04'06No.2065/62 - FRIDAY APRIL 06, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Statute on Execution of Powers of the Local Government Authorities No. 02 of 2017

I, hereby notify that the Statute on Executing Powers of the Local Government Authorities No. 02 of 2017 described in theSchedule below has been assented by the Hon. Governor of Western Province on 19th of October 2017 after being passedby the Western Provincial Council on 19th of September 2017 and accordingly the said Statute shall be effective in theWestern Province from 19th of October 2017.

ISURA DEVAPRIYA,The Chief Minister of the Western Provincial Counciland the Minister of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,Local Government, Provincial Administration,Economic Development, Power and Energy,Environment Affairs, Water Supply and Drainageand Tourist Affairs,Western Province.

At the Ministry of Local Government of Western Province,Sravasthi Mandiraya,Colombo 07,on the date of 04th April 2018.

Statute to Execute Powers of Local Government Institutions No. 02 of 2017 of the Provincial Council ofWestern Province

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 3982 — 08 (04/2018)

A Statute to provide provisions to inspect the plans for the land getting prepared for any developmentpurpose and plans for land subdivisions, all construction plans subjected for the duties of Local GovernmentInstitutions of any jurisdiction of Local Government Institution of Western Province, making directivesrelevant to it, including approving such plans and to make the provisions of Housing and Town ImprovementOrdinance and the provisions of Town and Country Planning Ordinance effective for it and to determinethe powers to the Local Government Institutions with regard to the matters incidental to it.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.04.20182A

This statute shall repugnant to the subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Section 23 of UrbanDevelopment Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 of the National State Assembly amended by UrbanDevelopment Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 1982.

Be it in enacted by the Provincial Council of Western Province of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka.

This statute shall be cited as the Statute to Execute Powers of Local Government InstitutionsNo. 02 of 2017 of Western Province and shall come into effect on such date assented by the Governor ofthe Western Province.

1. The objectives of the statute shall be as follows :

(i) Approving, inspecting and making necessary directives either by a local governmentinstitution or the Mayor or Chairman, the plans of land and land subdivisions that are withresidential, industrial, and commercial purposes in a jurisdiction of a Local GovernmentInstitution, plans for building constructions or plans related to any other developmentproject.

(ii) Determining the written law related to approving, inspecting and making necessarydirectives either by a local government institution or the Mayor or Chairman, the plansof land and land subdivisions that are with residential, industrial, and commercial purposesin a jurisdiction of a Local Government Institution, plans for building constructions orplans related to any other development project.

(iii) Providing provisions to make the provisions of Housing and Town Improvement Ordinanceand the provisions of Town and Country Planning Ordinance effective.

2. Operation of any provision mentioned under the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of1978 of National State Assembly or any directive made under it in the jurisdiction of LocalGovernment Institutions of the Western Province, which prevents executing the powers,discharging duties or making an action mentioned under Housing and Town ImprovementOrdinance in a jurisdiction of a Local Government Institution to approve, to operate a planrelevant for any part of land or a subdivision of land for the use of residential, industrial,commercial purpose, plan of a building relevant for a permanent construction or an amendementrelevant for such plan or a plan relevant for any other development project, or to do directivesrelevant for it by a Local Government Institution, Mayor, Chairman in terms of the provisionsof Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance shall be none effective from the date of operationof this Statute.

3. After the date of operation of this Statute, the Mayor, Chairman of Local Government Institutionsmay, in accordance with the provisions of the Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance, shallapprove a plan relevant for any part of land or a subdivision of land in a jurisdiction of a LocalGovernment Institution of Western Province, a plan of a building relevant for a permanentconstruction or an amendment relevant for such plan or a plan relevant for any other developmentproject, issue a license for a development purpose, take legal actions for unauthorizedconstructions and functions incidental to it.

4.(i) The Minister may make Rules under this Statute with regard to any matter relevant tooperate provisions related to the objective under this Statute.

(ii) Every such Rule made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and it shall beoperative from the date of such publish or any future date mentioned in the Gazette.

Short Title anddate of Operation

The objectives ofthe statute

Effectiveness ofthe provisions ofthe Housing andTownImprovementOrdinance

Making rules

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.04.2018

(iii) Rules made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council for approvalwithin three months from the publishing in the Gazette. The Provincial Council mayapprove such Rules and shall notify about such approval by a Gazette. If not approved assuch, it shall also be notified by a Gazette and such Rules shall be considered as terminatedwithout prejudice for the actions taken under it till then.

In this statute, unless the text otherwise requires

“Local Government Institutions” means Pradeshiya Sabha, Urban Councils and Municipal Councilsof Western Province.

“Chairman” means the Chairman elected for the Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha.

“Mayor” means the mayor elected for the Municipal Council.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the Local Government subject of the Western Province.

In an inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statute, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

04-790

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Interpretation