==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2039$31 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'10'06No. 2039/31 - FRIDAY, OCTOBER 06, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 3717 — 507 (10/2017)

L.D. B. 7/2001The United Nations Act, No. 45 of 1968

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs under Section 2 of the United Nations Act, No. 45 of 1968.

TILAK MARAPANA,Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Colombo,04th October, 2017.

Regulations

1.These regulations shall be cited as the United Nations (Sanctions relating to Proliferation of Nuclear,Chemical or Biological Weapons) Regulations of 2017.

2.United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540 (2004), and the modifications and strengthening of theResolution by the subsequent resolutions including 1673 (2006), 1810 (2008), 1977 (2011), 2055 (2012) and2325 (2016) and any other subsequent resolution, which set out wide-ranging requirements for the prevention

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.20172A

of proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, impose upon member States of the UnitedNations a series of obligations to take appropriate legal measures to prohibit any natural or legal person,group or entity acting without the lawful authority of any member State to manufacture, acquire, possess,develop, transport, transfer or use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of delivery, aswell as attempts to engage in any of the foregoing activities, participate in them as an accomplice, assist,or finance them. Further, member States are requiring to establish domestic controls to prevent theproliferation of these weapons and means of delivery, including by establishing appropriate controls overrelated materials. The Security Council of the United Nations acting under Chapter VII of the Charter of theUnited Nations, on 28th April, 2004, unanimously adopted Resolution 1540 (2004).

3.(1)Any person who or group or entity which manufactures, acquires, possesses, develops, transports,transfers or uses nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and their means of delivery within SriLanka, commits an offence under these regulations and shall on conviction by the High Court, beliable to imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding twenty years or a fine notexceeding five million rupees or both such fine and imprisonment.

(2)Any person who or group or entity which participates in manufacturing, acquiring, developing,possessing, transporting, transferring or using nuclear chemical or biological weapons and theirmeans of delivery as an accomplice or assists or finances them commits an offence under theseregulations and shall on conviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding one million rupees or bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

4.(1)A person shall not make available any funds, other financial assets and economic resources andfinancial or other related services directly or indirectly to, or for the benefit of, a person, group orentity to manufacture, acquire, develop, possess, transport, transfer or use nuclear, chemical orbiological weapons and their means of delivery or for the purposes to proliferate nuclear, chemical,and biological weapon related materials.

(2)Any person who or group or entity which violates paragraph (1) shall be guilty of an offence underthese regulations and shall, on conviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding one million rupees or bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

5.(1)Any person who, for the peaceful purposes, deals with nuclear chemical and biological weaponrelated materials shall comply with and maintain the minimum accounting, and securing measures inproduction, use, storage and transport and minimum physical protection measures in accordance withthe relevant written law.

(2)Any person who or group or entity which violates paragraphs (1) shall be guilty of an offence andshall, on conviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment of either description for a periodnot exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding one million rupees or both such fine andimprisonment.

6.(1)Any person who or group or entity which, for the peaceful purposes, engages in export, transit, trans-shipment or re-export nuclear chemical and biological weapon related materials within Sri Lanka shallcomply with the relevant written law.

(2)Any person who or group or entity which violates paragraphs (1) commits an offence under theseregulations and shall on conviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a period not exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding one million rupees or both such fineand imprisonment.

7.There shall for the purpose of these regulations, be a Competent Authority who shall be appointed bythe Minister in consultation with the Minister assigned the subject of Defence.

8. (1)The Competent Authority, any institution, Financial Intelligence Unit and the Minister shall refer anymatter or information relevant to violation or possible violation of the provisions of these regulations

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.10.20173A

to the appropriate law enforcement agencies.

(2)The Competent Authority shall consult with the law enforcement agencies, relevant institutions,Financial Intelligence Unit and other appropriate agencies and develop a plan that shall beimplemented for monitoring compliance and enforcement of these regulations.

(3)The Competent Authority may issue directives for the implementation of practices and enforcementof obligations under these regulations.

9.For the purpose of these regulations –

"biological weapons" means any weapon designed to kill, harm or infect people, animals or plants througheffects of the infectious or toxic properties of a microbial or biological warfare agent;

"chemical weapons" means-

(a)toxic chemicals and their precursors, except where intended for peaceful purposes not prohibited underthese regulations, as long as the types and quantities are consistent with such purposes;

(b)munitions and devices, specifically designed to cause death or other harm through the toxic propertiesof those toxic chemicals specified in paragraph (a), which would be released as a result of theemployment of such munitions and devices;

(c)any equipment specifically designed for use directly in connection with the employment of munitionsand devices specified in paragraph (b).

"entity" means a body corporate, a trust, a partnership, a fund, an unincorporated association or anorganization;

"Financial Intelligence Unit" means the Financial Intelligence Unit established under the Financial TransactionsReporting Act, No. 6 of 2006;

"High Court" means the High Court established under Article 154P of the Constitution, for the WesternProvince holden in Colombo;

"means of delivery" means missiles, rockets and other unmanned systems capable of delivering nuclear,chemical, or biological weapons, that are specially designed for such use;

"Minister" means the Minister to whom the subject to External Affairs has been assigned;

"nuclear weapon" means a weapon assembly that is capable of producing an explosion and massive damageand destruction by the sudden release of energy instantaneously released from self-sustaining nuclearfission and/or fusion;

"person" shall have the same meaning as in the Interpretation Ordinance (Chapter 2);

"related materials" means materials, equipment and technology covered by relevant multilateral treaties andarrangements, or included on national control lists, which could be used for the design, development,production or use of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and their means of delivery;

"trans-shipment" means shipment through ports of Sri Lanka.

10 - 629

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.