==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'18PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.03.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2115$8 - 2019 ud¾;= ui 18 jeks i÷od - 2019'03'18No. 2115/8 - MONDAY, MARCH 18, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

L.D.B 1/2012(III)

THE FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES ACT, No. 2 OF 1996

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Agriculture, Rural Economic Affairs, Livestock Development, Irrigation andFisheries and Aquatic Resources Development under Section 61 read with Sections 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the Fisheries andAquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996.

P. HARRISON,Minister of Agriculture, Rural Economic Affairs,Livestock Development, Irrigation andFisheries and Aquatic Resources Development.

Colombo,14th March, 2019.

Regulations

The Fishing Operations Regulations of 1996, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 948/25 of November 07,1996 are hereby amended as follows :-

(1) by the insertion immediately before regulation 2 of that regulation, of the following word and figure :-

“ PART I”

(2) by the insertion immediately after regulation 8 of that regulation of the following regulations :-

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A- PG 4436 — 2767 (2019/03)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'18PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.03.20192A

“9. The holder of licence granted for fishing operations under these regulations shall take steps to ensurethat -

(1)the Skipper of Master of the fishing boat keeps the licence for fishing operations within Sri LankaWaters together with the registration certificate of the boat or a certified copy thereof on board at alltimes and produces such licence and the registration certificate of the boat upon the request of anauthorized officer ;

(2)no fishing is carried out in any part of the Sri Lanka Waters except under the authority of a licenseissued under these regulations ;

(3)no generators are carried on board of any fishing boat belonging to the following categories :-

(a)traditional non-motorized boat (NTRB) ;(b)traditional motorized boat (MTRB) ;(c)beach seine boat (non-motorized) (NBSB) ;(d)FRP boat with outboard motor (OFRP) ;(e)day boats with inboard engine (IDAY) ;

(4)the Skipper or Master of the fishing boat uses a battery with a voltage of not more than 12V forgenerating electricity to light bulbs used for boats with outboard motors ;

(5)any person using artificial bulbs for the purpose of lighting of any fishing vessel uses a voltage notexceeding the maximum voltage mentioned below :-

Type of artificial bulbsNo. of bulbsNo. of maximum watt

1.Filamentous bulbs260w

2.Fluorescent bulbs260w

3.LED bulbs210w

4.CFL bulbs212w

(6)no person uses artificial light to attract fish in Sri Lanka Waters :

Provided however, special permission may be granted by the Director General to use artificial lightin consultation with the National Aquatic Resources, Research and Development Agency for personsengaging in small scale fishing of rod and line fishing, scoop nets, hand lines and fish traps ;

(7)no person uses surrounding nets for fishing operations within Sri Lanka Waters within the sea limitof seven (07) miles or six decimal naught eight (6.08) nautical miles, namely within eleven decimaltwo six kilo meters (11.26 km) from the coast.

10. The Director General or any officer authorized by him in that behalf shall indicate in the licence if any GPSdevices and Echo sounders are carried on board of any fishing boat.

PART II

11. Any person engages in diving fishing operations within Sri Lanka Waters shall carry out such fishing operationduring the day time between 6.00 am to 6.00 pm.

12. The Director General shall issue a separate licence for each type of fish in respect of which diving fishingoperations are carried out.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'03'18PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.03.20193A

13. Any such licence granted under these regulations shall be utilized only for catching the permitted type offish.

14. Any person engages in catching chank and beach-de-mer by scuba diving in the Administrative Districts ofColombo, Gampaha, Kalutara, Galle, Matara, Hambantota, Ampara, Batticaloa, Puttalam, Mannar, Jaffna, Mullativu andKilinochchi shall carry out such fishing operation beyond four (4) nautical miles (7.4 km) from the coast :

Provided however, if such fishing operation is carried out in the Administrative District of Trincomalee the sealimit shall be beyond two (2) Nautical miles (3.7 km) from the boat.

15. Any Skipper or Master engages in scuba diving fishing operations within Sri Lanka Waters shall taken onboard of such boat only two divers with the Skipper who shall not be a scuba operation licensee.

16. Any Skipper or Master engage in scuba diving fishing operations within Sri Lanka Waters shall carry on boardof such boat such number of cylinders not exceeding eight.

17. No scuba diving fishing operations licence holder shall use such licence to engage in purse seine fishing.

18. No scuba diving fishing operations licence holder to catch chank, beach de-mer, lobsters and ornamental fishshall carry on board of such boat any harpoon, pointed tools or spear gun.

19. The licence of any diving fishing operations licence holder who contravenes the above conditions shall becancelled with immediate effect by the Director General on having proof of such contravention.

PART III

20. The Director General shall determine the materials to be used for making stake net (Ja Kottu) and the positionof constructing such stake net (Ja Kottu) within Sri Lanka Waters on the recommendation given as per GPS readings bythe National Aquatic Resources, Research and Development Agency or any other research institute recognized by theDirector-General.

21. Every stake net (Ja Kottu) licence holder shall take steps to maintain a signal light system on guide net toidentify the location of the stake net (Ja Kottu) at night.

22. No stake net (Ja Kottu) licence holder shall construct a stake net (Ja Kottu) in the vicinity of coral reefs, insea weed or sea grass area, habitats of other maine mammals or within the beach seine operation area or Madel Waraya.

23. The Director General shall determine the number of stake nets (Ja Kottu) to be constructed in anyAdministrative District on the recommendation of the National Aquatic Resources, Research and Development Agencyor any other research institute recognized by the Director General.

24. The maximum length of the guide net fence to gather fish in stake net (Ja Kottu) and the mesh size of the netshall not exceed 75 meters and shall not be less than 1 1/4 inches respectively.

25. The distance between two stake nets (Ja Kottu) shall not be less than 300 meters.

26. If any stake net licence holder acts in contravention of the above regulations, the licence of such stake netlicence holder shall be cancelled by the Director General on having proof such contravention.”

04 - 29

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.