==== BLOCKS ==== 

wxl 2032$3 - 2017 wf.daia;= ui 14 jeks i÷od - 2017'08'14

No. 2032/3 – MONDAY, AUGUST 14, 2017

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

EXTRAORDINARY

w;s úfYI

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www. documents.gov.lk

1A

1A - PG 3648 - 17 (2017/09)

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Provincial Council Notification

Uva Provincial Council

Uva Entrepreneur Development Program of Provincial Council of Uva Province Statute No. 02 of 2017

The above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 13th of July, 2017 has beenapproved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 24th of July, 2017 and which is here by published for thenotification of the public.

R. A. H. A. SAMARASINGHE,

Secretary,Uva Provincial Council.

Councial Secretariat,Uva Provincial Council,King's Street,Badulla,02nd August, 2017.

UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Uva Entrepreneur Development Program of Provincial Council of Uva Province Statute No. 2 of 2017

This Statute deems ordinance to finite the Statute of Uva Entrepreneur Development No. 01 of 2000 of Uva Provincial Counciland deem incidental ordinance for that and form trustee and management board for them and institutes a program on a themeof "Our Hands for Your Strength" for Uva Entrepreneur Development which continues on a goal of providing contribution tothe nation and the province whilst creating a market of generating job opportunities by the promotion of service venture and

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.20172A

production which distributive the activity of entrepreneurship and income comprehensively as be able to succeed the challengeby manipulating the potentiality and technology which inherent to the Uva Province to be precise the above goal,

The Uva Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka shall promulgate as this manner.

PART 01

1.This Statute known as Uva Entrepreneur Development Programme No. 2 of 2017 and this shall comeinto effect from the date of receiving approval of the Governor of Uva Provincial Council or the dayprescribed by the Governor, hereinafter referred as "Governor".

2.(1) Hereinafter this Statute known as "Programme" and the institution known "Uva EntrepreneurDevelopment Programme" shall be instituted.

(2) By the sub section (1) the Administration of the programme and represent then given name andable to manipulate potential existence and common seal, sue by said incorporated name and may sueagainst it.

(3) A board of trustee shall be appointed by the Governor of Uva Provincial to make policy decisionof this Program and approve medieval plans and review the programme.

(4) A "Board of Uva Entrepreneur Management" shall be set as known "Management Board" to planthe activities of this Programme and enforce and direct hereinafter.

3.Rural Financial Institutions, State Financial Institutions, State Institutions, Non-governmentalorganizations and Private sectors etc, would be the parties of "Uva Entrepreneur DevelopmentProgramme.

4.(1) The common seal should be kept in the possession of the Secretary of the Management Boardshown here in the section 28.

(2) The common seal should be in accordance to the approved form of the Board of Management.

5.The registered address would be "Deputy Chief Secretary (Planning) office of Uva Provincial Councilor the address would be in a place which decided by the Board of Programme Management.

6.Construct a competitive Entrepreneur culture in the Uva Province at the year of 2025.

7.The Mission of this program would be "Providing contribution for the economic development by theventure of promotion of entrepreneurship enforcement and the income distributive shall be widely asable to be succeeded the challenges by utilizing the inherent potential and new Technology of UvaProvince".

8.The goals of the program shall be as mentioned below.

(1) Bring up the provincial contribution to a higher level for gross national production via businesspromotion of Uva.

(2) Expanding the current national and international market opportunities for the production of UvaProvince.

(3) Providing necessary technical and instructions and other incidental services to the entrepreneursof Uva Province.

Short nameand Date ofoperation

Enforcing UvaEntrepreneurdevelopmentProgramme

Parties of theProgramme

Seal

Registeredaddress

Vision

Mission

Objective

3AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2017

(4) Providing necessary financial facilities to entrepreneurship development to the entrepreneure inthe Uva province to those who interest to engage in providing active contribution for the economicDevelopment.

(5) Utilizing the current potential of the province for the purpose of production and as eco-friendly.

9.The tasks and duties Development programme shall be shown below

9.1Identifying the unemployed youths and entrepreneurs of small and middle levels.

9.2Acquainting business opportunities on prevailing potential and introducing and enforcingthem.

9.3Training programs for entrepreneurs and providing assistance for technical knowledge andexperiment activities.

9.4Conducting development activities such as survey, study and workshop etc.

9.5Compilation of promoting participation in the state sector, private and non-governmentalorganizations.

9.6Deciding the administration structure of the program and administration of Uva EntrepreneurDevelopment fund.

9.7Providing necessary financial facilities for Entrepreneurs and planning Uva EntrepreneurDevelopment activities and enforcing and debriefing.

9.8Coordination with linear institutions related to the program operation and the institutionwhich provide participation loan and the institutions which supply assistance.

9.9Preparing proposals and enforcing them to strengthen financial base and obtain financialfacilities for the programme.

9.10Making timely reports concern on activities and progress.

9.11Leading activities to achieve the goals of the program and the other entire incidental.

PART 02

10.To enforce the program of Uva Entrepreneur Development program, a fund known "Uva EntrepreneurDevelopment fund" should be instituted and it should be continued as a separate account.

11.The composition of Uva Entrepreneur Development fund should be consisted as below manner.

11.1The entire amount which under Uva Entrepreneur Development fund No. 01 of 2000 of UvaProvincial Council,

11.2All the funds which grant by the Provincial Council time to time,

11.3All type of charges which recovered from the programmes whilst carried out the tasks andduties of the programme.

The task and duty

Funds

Composition ofthe fund

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.20174A

11.4Other aids and grants.

11.5Interest and other income of funds may obtain for programme via this Statute.

11.6Inactive funds instituted by the Government and Nongovernment Institutions to achieve theobjective of this program in accordance with the resolution of the Uva Provincial Council.

11.7Should be credited to the programme.

12.The payment mentioned below shall be expenditure burden to the Uva Entrepreneur Developmentfund.

12.1The expenditure to enhance the performance and to be accomplished the task and mentionedmatters under this task to be fulfilled the goal of this program.

12.2Expenditure to be borne for work subjects planned to accomplish the objectives of theprogram.

12.3Grants offering to accomplish the objectives of the pr

12.4Before commence this statute to be operated, all treaties, agreements, loan and outgoingsexisting under Uva Entrepreneur Development fund statute No. 01 of 2000 of Uva ProvincialCouncil, all treaties, agreements, loan and outgoing should be considered as consolidatedby this.

13.The Management Board holds power to select an appropriate bank to run the bank account for thisfund and operate a bank account and decide the signatories.

14.The financial year of the program begin on first of January and end on December 31st in the calendaryear

15.The auditing of the accounts should be done by an auditor every year apropos to the 154th ordinanceof the constitution.

15.1The accounts of the programs should be submitted to the auditor for the relevant financialyear before exceeding three months (3) after ending the financial year.

15.2The Auditor General should forwarded his report along with audited accounts to chairman ofthe management board'

15.3The financial statement should be submitted to the minister with the report of the activitiesenforced in the relevant financial year after receiving the statement of the Auditor of theprogram and said audited accounts by the chairman of the Management board and theMinister should make arrangements to submit the copies of the them to the cabinet and theProvincial Council lapse before six months of the program prior expiration the relevant financialyear of the program.

PART 02

Appointing a board related to the Uva Entrepreneur Development

16.Hereinafter a trustee board Known "Trustee Board" should be appointed for Uva EntrepreneurDevelopment program. The Trustee Board should be consisted the below mentioned members.

Payment by funds

Accounts

Financial year ofthe program

Auditor

Composition ofthe TrusteeBoard

5AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2017

Appointing the members for the Board should be done by the "Honorable Governor of the UvaProvincial".

(1)Chief Minister of Uva Province.(2)Ministers of Uva Province.(3)Chairman of Uva Province.(4)Opposition Leader of Uva Province.(5)Two opposition members who appointed on a concurrence of Uva Provincial council..(6)The Chief Secretary of Uva Province.(7)Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Province (Planning).

17.The Chairman of the trustee board should be the chief Minister of Uva Province and the Secretary ofthis board should be the Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Province.

18.The duties of this board are shown below.

18.1Preparing a policy concern to the program

18.2Debrief the activities and progress concern to the program and submitting reports to theProvincial Council once a year or when necessary.

19.The below mentioned power should be delegated to fulfill the task and duty of the trustee Board ofthe Program.

19.1Preparing necessary policies and operation procedure for the performance of the Program.

19.2Providing approval for medieval plan made by the Management Board for fulfill the goal ofthis Program.

19.3Scrutinize the matters as of Management board, if there is a difficulty or definition concernto the performance of the Programme.

19.4Taking necessary steps to achieve the goals of the programme with Government, Private,Non-government Organization and foreign institutions.

20.The forum of Trustee Board meeting should be six (6) members.

21.Unless a member deceased, resigned, terminated or vacated the post, shall be borne the post withinthe period of office the Provincial Council.

22. (1) A nominated member may send a written notice to the Governor as that he is resigning the post

except a member appointed by ex-officio and, if the resignation acknowledged by the Governor,may resign from the post respectively.

(2) In an occasion that a member deceased, resigned, terminated from the post or the post has been

vacant in any other manner, the Governor may consider the ordinance Section 16 and appointanother person as a successor of the member.

(3) A person who was nominated once as a member of this board may be nominated again as a

member of the board.

23.Meetings of Trustee Board should be held at least once a year or necessary aroused to be held.

Chairman, andSecretary ofTrustee Board

Duties ofTrustee Board

Power of theManagementBoard

The forum ofTrustee BoardMeeting

Duration of theTrustee boardmember's

Resignation

Meetings ofTrustee board

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.20176A

24.Trustee board should not be void on a certain activity, decision or law proceedings, on any vacantboard membership or any defect cause by any membership appointment.

25.On the subject of Uva Entrepreneur Development Program, a management board should appoint aboard such as referred hereinafter "Management Board" to perform the tasks, duties and execute thepower of trustee board.

26.The Board of Management should be consisted below mentioned members such as appointed byex-officio. This management board should be appointed by the honorable Governor of Uva ProvincialCouncil.

1. Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council2. Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council (Planning)3. Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council (Financial)4. Secretaries of Ministries of Uva Provincial Council5. Director of Industry Development Department of Uva Provincial Council6. Director of Agricultural Department of Uva Provincial Council7. Director of livestock production and health Department of Uva Province8. Assistant Directors of small business Development sections of Badulla and Monaragala9. Commissioner of Co-operative Development Department of Uva Province10. Chairman of Commerce and Industry board of Uva Province11. Assistant Director of export Development board12. Deputy Directors of Teachnical Development Boards of Badulla and Monaragala districts13. Directors of Badulla and Monaragala Divineguma Department14. Director of Uva Province Tourism15. Ayurvedic Commissioner of Uva Province16. An agent of the financial institution which conducts credit Programe

(B) In any occasion considered necessary to fulfill the task of this Statute by the Management Board,may get assistances of other useful institutions and persons for this program.

27.The forum of Management board should be 12.

28.The Chief Secretary of Uva Province should be the chairman of the Management board and thesecretary of this Board should be Deputy Chief Secretary of Uva Province. Also the Deputy ChiefSecretary (Finance) should be the Treasurer of this Board.

29.The duties such as policy making, Planning, enforcing, Directing, review and operating relevant tothe entire task and all the duties mentioned in the section 09 which be able to achieve the goal of thisStatute belongs to the management board.

30.Management Board should have necessary Power to fulfill the task and duties of this program andespecially power is a must to do the below mentioned activities or any therin.

30.1Selecting appropriate persons or institutions, recruiting, assignins service, Utilizing in Service,Developing capacities, discipline Control and deeming necessary facilities for the activitiesof the program.

30.2Paying approved and agreed staff salary and charges as apt.

30.3Necessary persons relevant to the goal of the program or agreement with institutions,affirmation and associated union or fulfilling them for the goal of program.

ManagementBoard

Members ofManagementBoard

Forum ofManagement Board

Chairman, Secrtaryand Treasurer ofManagement Boad

Duties ofManagement Board

Power of theManagementBoard

7AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2017

30.4Terminating from service and suspend agreements and eliminating from agreements etc,according to the methodology.

30.5In an occasion of breaking agreements made by the relevant parties and in an occasion thatthere are loss or damages, taking steps to recover the loss and damages.

30.6Selecting an apt and necessary bank which brings advantage to the program, opening anaccount and continuing further.

30.7Deciding officers that who may sign to operate the accounts.

30.8Acquiring movable and immovable properties hold up, obtaining rental or granting as a tax,mortgaging, transferring, gagging or selling.

30.9Bills, debenture, draft, issuing promissory note, acknowledgment, counter signature,endorsement, keeping discounts, investing and transactions.

30.10Determining relevant criteria for borrowers and Institutions which provide partnership loan.

30.11Deciding Institutions of providing partnership loan.

30.12Investment as necessary, parts of advance or paying completely.

30.13Granting re-loans by taking in account the applications by the institutions providingpartnership loan according to the loan granting policy and agreed conditions.

30.14Determining Ratio for Interest and service fare.

30.15On cause of failing to grant re-loan, calling back the idle amount which residual in thepartnership loan granting institutions.

30.16Mediations for the difficulties arising on granting loan on fund and whilst enforcing theprogramme.

30.17Enforcing all activities such as causing to achieve the goal of the program and all otherincidental.

31.Preparing necesary ordinance concern to matters relevant to continue this program subject to theother section of this Statute, preparing procedures, preparing operation instructions shall be doneby the management board.

32.The management board should meet once in three months or in a necessary occasion.

33.On certain activities of members in the management board, decision or legal proceedings, vacant ofthe board or a defect caused by any appointment should not be considered as void.

34. (1) The meetings should be precised by the Chairman.

(2) In an occasion that chairman is absent, a person appointed by among other members except the

secretary and treasurer should be precised the management meeting.

(3) Necessary steps should be taken for the decision taken in the board meeting by the precised

person and the letters received to the program and the relevant matters to enforce the relevantplan to fulfill goal of the program.

Ordinance ofManagementBoard

Meetings inManagementBoard

Decisions ofManagementBoard

Chairman'sliability in theManagement

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.20178A

35.The liabilities of the secrtary of Management board shown below.

(1)Maintaining a Membership Register in the Management board.

(2)Calling for meeting, Keeping record and enforcing the decisions taken in the managementmeeting.

(3)Preparing and presenting necessary reports for all management board meetings which shownin this statues.

(4)Providing detailed reports time to time and when requires to the trustee board, Uva ProvincialCouncil and the institutions providing aid.

(5)Taking steps timely for the letters received to the board and concern to the report.

(6)Debrief concern to the documents and measures.

36.Liabilities of treasurer in the management board shown below.

(1)Maintaining the accounts of fund and transaction report.

(2)Steps taking to pay the payment timely and make arrangements for recovering.

(3)Operating bank accounts, running and comparing monthly.

(4)Manipulating the accounts concern to the participation loan granting institutions,maintaining and comparing.

(5)Preparing monthly, quarterly, and annual reports on financial concern.

(6)Providing necessary reports and financial details to the Management board.

(7)Providing necessary books, reports and details for auditing purpose.

(8)Preparing and presenting necessary reports to Management board and program meetings.

(9)Presenting annual accounts statements to the management board.

37.The chief Minister of Uva Province holds the power of making all directives to fulfill the objective ofthis Statute and enforcing the ordinance or may necessary to empower the matters.

PART 4

Administration and supervision of the programme

38.Opening appropriate accounts concern to the transactions of the program, maintaining apt accountsbooks and transactions reporting should be subject to the Deputy Chief Secretary (Planing), theaccounts on income and expenditure of the year and all other dealings for each finance year shall bekept accurately and preparing annual accounts statements including accounts and statistics relevantto the program should be prepared.

39.The asset belongs to the program shall be detain in a place where registered or management boardor other place believe where apt. The places and relevant assets should be examined by the managementboard members and auditors and the persons received the approvals in management board.

Secretary'sliability in theManagement

Treasurer's libilityin the Management

Comparingdirectives

Maintainingaccountsrelevant to the

Assets

9AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'08'14PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2017

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

40.Power shall be delegated to the management board to make nceesary contractual to achieve the goalof this program, signing such contracts, should be done by the chairman or secretary of themanagement board according to opportunism.

41.In a occasion required instructions for beneficial, linear institutions which provide assistance andother institutions for perofrmance, should appoint a committee or persons by the management boardand make arrangements to get instructions, the service of persons and committee shall be liquidatedwhen the task and time ended.

42.Paying for the expenditure of management and administration of the program shall be done by theprogram of fund and the said expenditure may borne on supervising and approval of the managementboard.

43.Below mentioned meetings shall be conducted on concern to the program

(1) Trustee board meeting.

Meetings shall be conducted once in a year or necessary occasions on a request of the chiefMinister to evaluate the performance of the programs and make policies,

(2) Management board meeting

According to the request of the Chairman and on a notification of before 14 days by theSecretary, meet up once in four months or in necessary occasions.

44.In this statute, unless the text otherwise requires,

(1) "The Minister" means Chief Minister of Uva Provincial Council.

(2) "The Governor" means Governor of Uva Province.

(3) The Cabinet of Uva Provincial council shall be known as "Cabinet".

45.The Statute of Uva Entrepreneur Development Fund No. 01 of 2000 which under operation should befinite after getting approval for this statute. Whereas the steps taken under the previous statutebefore approved shall be exist with legal power.

46.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts of this Statute, the Sinhalatext shall prevail.

08 - 959

Power to enterinto agreements

Consultants

Maintainingaccountsrelevant to the

ConductMeetings

Interpretation

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency