w;s úfYI

wxl 2387$37 - 2024 cqks ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2024.06.06No. 2387/37 - thursday, june 06, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A- G 42031 - 05 (06/2024) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

FINANCE ACT No. 11 OF 1963

Rules of the National Lotteries Board

Rules made by the National Lotteries Board in terms of the provisions of subsection (1) of section 14, section 16 and section 20 of the Finance Act, No.11 of 1963 and approved by the Minister of Finance, under subsection (3) of section 20 of the said Act.

Chameera Chandrabhaya Yapa Abeywardena, Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, National Lotteries Board.Colombo, 21st May 2024.

RULES

1. These rules may be cited as the National Lotteries Board Rules No. 1 of 2023.

2. The National Lotteries Board (hereinafter referred to as “the NLB”) shall in terms of subsection (1) of section 14 of the Finance Act conduct the following national lotteries:-(a) Mahajana Sampatha;(b) Govisetha;(c) Mega Power;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.20242A

(d) Lucky 7 VIP;(e) NLB Handahana;(f) Dhana Nidhanaya;(g) NLB Mega Millions;(h) Sevana Scratch Lottery; and(i) Samurdhi Scratch Lottery

3. The NLB shall conduct the Mahajana Sampatha national lottery referred to in rule 2(a) above subject to the conditions set out hereunder :-(1) There shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (Rs.40/-).

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.

(4) The numbering of tickets shall be from the number 000000 to number 999999. In every ticket six numbers within the range of zero to nine (0 to 9) shall be printed together with a letter from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English alphabet except the letter “I”. Every printed / digital ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.

(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, a letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ except the letter ‘I’ of the English alphabet shall be drawn. In addition, six numbers shall be drawn, one number each from six barrels, with each barrel containing the numbers from zero to nine (0 to 9). Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.

(6) The prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-(a) fifty percent (50%)of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes;

(b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(c) sixteen point five percent (16.5%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the Consolidated Fund;

(d) thirteen point five percent (13.5%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

(e) where the English letter and the six numbers in a ticket agree with the English letter and six numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, such ticket shall be awarded the Super prize of not less than twenty million rupees (Rs.20,000,000/-);

(f) where the six numbers in a ticket agree with the six numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, such ticket shall be awarded two million five hundred thousand rupees (Rs.2,500,000/-);

(g) where the last five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last five numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded one hundred thousand rupees (Rs.100,000/-);

(h) where the last four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last four numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded fifteen thousand rupees (Rs.15,000/-);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

3A

(i) where the last three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last three numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded two thousand rupees (Rs.2,000/-);

(j) where the last two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last two numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded two hundred rupees (Rs.200/-);

(k) where the last number in one or more tickets agrees with the last number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded forty rupees (Rs.40/-);

(l) where the first five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first five numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred thousand rupees (Rs.100,000/-);

(m) where the first four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first four numbers drawn

consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs.2,000/-);

(n) where the first three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first three numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs.200/-);

(o) where the first two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first two numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of eighty rupees (Rs.80/-);

(p) where the first number in one or more tickets agrees with the first number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs.40/-);

(q) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (40/-);

(r) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize Structure

PrizeEnglish

LetterWinning NumbersAmount

Super PrizeXXXXXXXRs. 20,000,000/-

1 prizeXXXXXXRs.2,500,000/- each2 prizeXXXXXRs. 100,000/- each3 prizeXXXXRs. 15,000/- each4 prizeXXXRs. 2,000/- each5 prizeXXRs. 200/- each6 prizeXRs. 40/- each

7 prizeXXXXXRs. 100,000/- each8 prizeXXXXRs. 2,000/- each9 prizeXXXRs. 200/- each10 prizeXXRs. 80/- each11 prizeXRs. 40/- each12 prizeXRs. 40/- each

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.20244A

(s) the value of the Super prize of the Mahajana Sampatha lottery will start at twenty million rupees (Rs. 20,000,000/-);

(t) if the existing Super prize is won a new Super prize will start at twenty million rupees (Rs. 20,000,000/-) utilising the Mahajana Sampatha Prize Reserve Account;

(u) in the event of the any money remaining after the award of prizes out of the fifty percent (50%) of ticket sales proceeds allocated for the award of prizes, twenty percent (20%) of the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next Super prize and the balance eighty percent (80%) shall be credited to the Mahajana Sampatha Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of Section 17 of the Finance Act;

(v) where in any Mahajana Sampatha lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the Mahajana Sampatha Prize Reserve Account or any other Prize Reserve Account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;

(w) the NLB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the Mahajana Sampatha Prize Reserve

Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

(x) the effective date of the above prize structure is 21st July 2023 and the Draw number is 5182.

4. The NLB shall conduct the Govisetha national lottery referred to in rule 2(b) above subject to the conditions set out hereunder:-(1) There shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-).

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.

(4) In every ticket four numbers within the range of one to eighty (1 to 80) shall be printed together with a letter from ‘A’ to ‘Z’. Every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.

For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers from a barrel which contains numbers from one to eighty (1 to 80) shall be drawn. In addition, a letter from a separate barrel containing the letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English Alphabet shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.

(5) The prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-a) forty nine percent (49%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes;

b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

c) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the relevant fund through the Consolidated Fund;

d) twenty one percent (21%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

5A

e) where the four numbers and the English letter in a ticket agree with the four numbers and the English letter drawn, such ticket shall be awarded the Super prize of not less than sixty million rupees (Rs. 60,000,000/-);

f) where the four numbers in a tickets agree with the four numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two million rupees (Rs. 2,000,000/-);

g) where any three numbers and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers and the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred and fifty thousand rupees (Rs. 250,000/-);

h) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of five thousand rupees (Rs. 5,000/-);

i) where any two numbers and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers and the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000/-);

j) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

k) where any one number and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any one number and the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

l) where any one number in one or more tickets agrees with any one number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

m) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

n) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize Structure

Super Prize

English letter and 4 numbers correctRs. 60,000,000/-

1 prizeAll 4 numbers correctRs. 2,000,000/- each

2 prizeEnglish letter and 3 numbers correctRs. 250,000/- each3 prize3 numbers correctRs. 5,000/- each4 prizeEnglish letter and 2 numbers correctRs. 2,000/- each5 prize2 numbers correctRs. 200/- each6 prizeEnglish letter and 1 number correctRs. 200/- each7 prize1 number correctRs. 40/- each8 prizeEnglish letter correctRs. 40/- each

o) the value of the Super prize of the Govisetha lottery will start at sixty million rupees (Rs. 60,000,000/-);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.20246A

p) if the existing Super prize is won a new Super prize will start at sixty million rupees (Rs. 60,000,000/-) utilising the Govisetha Prize Reserve Account;

q) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes out of the forty nine percent (49%) of ticket sales proceeds allocated for the award of prizes, ten percent (10%) of the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next Super prize and the balance ninety percent (90%)shall be credited to the Govisetha Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance Act;

r) where in any Govisetha lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the Govisetha Prize Reserve Account or any other prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;

s) the NLB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the Govisetha Prize Reserve Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

t) the effective date of the above prize structure is 6th July 2023 and the Draw number is 3409.

5. The NLB shall conduct the Mega power national lottery referred to in rule 2(c) above (which was previously conducted under the name “Power Lotto”) subject to the conditions set out hereunder :-

(1) There shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-).

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize. Provided however if the Super number drawn matches with the Super number in any winning ticket such winning ticket shall in addition be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-)

(4) In every ticket a super number within the range of one to twenty six (1 to 26), a letter from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English alphabet and four numbers within the range of one to eighty (1 to 80) shall be printed. Every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.

(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers out of the numbers from one to eighty (1 to 80) and a super number out of the numbers from one to twenty six (1 to 26) shall be drawn from two separate draw barrels which indicate each such number range. A letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English alphabet shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.

(6) Prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-

(a) fifty percent (50%)of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of

prizes;

(b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency

Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(c) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the Consolidated

Fund;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

7A

(d) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s

‘Boards Fund’;(e) where the four numbers, the super number and the English letter in a ticket agree with the four numbers, the super number and the English letter drawn, a sum of not less than one hundred and fifty million rupees (Rs. 150,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket as the Mega Super Prize;

(f) where the four numbers and the English letter in a ticket agree with the four numbers and the

English letter drawn, a sum of ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket as the Power Super Prize;

(g) where the four numbers and the super number in a ticket agree with the four numbers and the super number drawn, a sum of ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket as the Grand Super Prize;

(h) where the four numbers in a ticket agree with the four numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two million rupees (Rs.2,000,000/-);

(i) where any three numbers and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers and the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 200,000/-);

(j) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of five thousand rupees (Rs. 5,000/-);

(k) where any two numbers and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers and the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000/-);

(l) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

(m) where any number and the English letter in one or more tickets agree with any number and the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

(n) where any number in one or more tickets agrees with any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(o) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(p) where the super number in one or more tickets agrees with the super number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.20248A

(q) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize Structure

Mega Super Prize

English letter , Super number and 4 numbers correctRs. 150,000,000/-

Power Super PrizeEnglish letter and 4 numbers correctRs. 10,000,000/-

Grand Super PrizeSuper number and 4 numbers correctRs. 10,000,000/-

1 Prize4 numbers correctRs. 2,000,000/- each

2 Prize3 numbers and English letter correctRs. 200,000/- each

3 Prize3 numbers correctRs. 5,000/- each

4 Prize2 numbers and English letter correctRs. 2,000/- each

5 Prize2 numbers correctRs. 200/- each

6 Prize1 number and English letter correctRs. 200/- each

7 Prize1 number correctRs 40/- each

8 PrizeEnglish letter correctRs. 40/- each

9 PrizeSuper number correctRs. 40/- each

(r) the value of the Mega Super prize of the Mega Power lottery will start at one hundred and fifty million rupees (Rs. 150,000,000/-);

(s) if the existing Mega Super prize is won a new Super prize will start at one hundred and fifty million rupees (Rs. 150,000,000/-) utilizing the Mega Power Prize Reserve Account;

(t) if the existing Power Super prize of the Mega Power lottery is won a new fixed Power Super prize will start at ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000/-) utilizing the Mega Power Prize Reserve Account;

(u) if the existing Grand Super prize of the Mega Power lottery is won a new fixed Grand Super prize will start at ten million rupees (Rs. 10,000,000/-) utilizing the Mega Power Prize Reserve Account;

(v) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes out of the fifty percent (50%)

of ticket sales proceeds allocated for the award of prizes, ninety percent (90%) of the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be credited to the Mega Power Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of Section 17 of the Finance Act and the balance ten percent (10%) (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next Mega Super Prize.

(w) where in any Mega Power lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the Mega Power Prize Reserve Account or any other Prize Reserve Account shall be utilized to meet the shortfall;

(x) the NLB shall be entitled to utilize the money in the Mega Power Prize Reserve Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

(y) the effective date of the above prize structure is 24th July 2023 and the Draw number is 1533.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

9A

6. The NLB shall conduct the Lucky 7 - VIP national lottery referred to in rule 2(d) above (which was previously conducted under the name “Jathika Sampatha”) subject to the condition set out hereunder:-

(1) There shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (Rs.40/-)

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.

(4) The numbering of tickets shall be from the number 000000 to number 999999. In every ticket six numbers within the range of zero to nine (0 to 9) shall be printed together with a letter from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English alphabet except the letter “I”. Every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.

(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, a letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ except the letter ‘I’ of the English alphabet shall be drawn. In addition, six numbers shall be drawn, one number each from six barrels containing the numbers from zero to nine (0 to 9). Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.

(6) The prize shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-

(a) fifty seven percent (57%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes;

(b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(c) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the relevant fund through the Consolidated Fund;

(d) thirteen percent (13%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

(e) Where the English letter and the six numbers in a ticket agree with the English letter and six numbers drawn, the Super prize of a minimum sum of twenty million rupees (Rs.20,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;

(f) where the six numbers in a ticket agree with the six numbers drawn, consecutively from left to right a sum of two million five hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 2,500,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;

(g) where the last five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last five numbers drawn, consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred and fifty thousand rupees (Rs. 250,000/-);

(h) where the last four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last four numbers drawn, consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of twenty thousand rupees (Rs. 20,000/-);

(i) where the last three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last three numbers drawn, consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000/-);

(j) where the last two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the last two numbers drawn, consecutively from left to right each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.202410A

(k) where the last number in one or more tickets agrees with the last number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded forty rupees (Rs.40/-);

(l) where the first five numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first five numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred thousand rupees (Rs.100,000/-);

(m) where the first four numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first four numbers drawn

consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of four thousand rupees (Rs.4,000/-);

(n) where the first three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first three numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of five hundred rupees (Rs.500/-);

(o) where the first two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the first two numbers drawn consecutively from left to right, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred and twenty rupees (Rs.120/-);

(p) where the first number in one or more tickets agrees with the first number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs.40/-);

(q) where the English letter in one or more tickets agrees with the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (40/-);

(r) where the six numbers in one or more tickets agree with the six numbers drawn, (in any order) each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of five hundred rupees (Rs.500/-);

(s) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize StructureFrom right to left PrizeEnglish letterWinning numbersAmountSuper PrizeEnglish LetterXXXXXXRs. 20,000,000/- 1 prizeXXXXXXRs.2,500,000/- each

2 prizeXXXXXRs. 250,000/- each

3 prizeXXXXRs. 20,000/- each

4 prizeXXXRs. 2,000/- each

5 prizeXXRs. 200/- each

6 prizeXRs. 40/- each

From left to right 7 prizeXXXXXRs. 100,000/- each

8 prizeXXXXRs. 4,000/- each

9 prizeXXXRs. 500/- each

10 prizeXXRs. 120/- each

11 prizeXRs. 40/- each

12 prizeEnglish letterRs. 40/- each

13 prizeMatching the 6 winning numbers in any orderRs. 500/- each

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

11A

(t) the value of the Super prize of the Lucky 7 VIP lottery will start at twenty million rupees (Rs.20,000,000/-);

(u) if the existing Super prize is won a new Super prize will start at twenty million rupees (Rs.20,000,000/-) utilizing the Lucky 7 VIP Prize Reserve Account;

(v) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes out of the fifty seven percent (57%) of ticket sales proceeds allocated for the award of prizes, ten percent (10%) of the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next Super prize and the balance ninety percent (90%) shall be credited to the Lucky 7 VIP Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance Act;

(w) where in any Lucky 7 VIP lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the Lucky 7 VIP Prize Reserve Account or any other Prize Reserve Account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;

(x) the NLB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the Lucky 7 VIP Prize Reserve Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

(y) the effective date of the above prize structure is 22nd November 2023 and the Draw number is 132.

7. The NLB shall conduct the NLB Handahana national lottery referred to in rule 2(e) above (which was previously conducted under the name “Supiri Vasana”) subject to the conditions set out hereunder :-

(1) There shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-).

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize.

(4) In every ticket a zodiac sign from twelve (12) zodiac signs and four numbers within the range of one to sixty two (1 to 62) shall be printed. Every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.

(5) For the purpose of determining the winning tickets, four numbers from a barrel which contains the numbers from one to sixty two (1 to 62) and a zodiac sign from a barrel which contains twelve (12) zodiac signs shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.

(a) fifty three percent (53%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes;

(b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(c) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the relevant fund through the Consolidated Fund;

(d) seventeen percent (17%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.202412A

(e) Where the zodiac sign and the four numbers in a ticket agree with the zodiac sign and the four numbers drawn, the Super prize of a minimum sum of three million rupees (Rs.3,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;

(f) Where the four numbers in a ticket agree with the four numbers drawn, a sum of one million rupees (Rs.1,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;

(g) where the zodiac sign and any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with zodiac sign and any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of twenty five thousand rupees (Rs. 25,000/-);

(h) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000/-);

(i) where the zodiac sign and any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the zodiac sign and any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of five hundred rupees (Rs. 500/-);

(j) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

(k) where the zodiac sign and any number in one or more tickets agree with the zodiac sign and any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred and twenty rupees (Rs. 120/-);

(l) where any number in one or more tickets agrees with any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(m) where the zodiac sign in one or more tickets agrees with the zodiac sign drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(n) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize StructureSuper PrizeZodiac sign and 4 numbers correctRs. 3,000,000./-

1 Prize4 numbers correctRs. 1,000,000/- each

2 Prize3 numbers and the Zodiac sign correctRs. 25,000/- each

3 Prize3 numbers correctRs. 2,000/- each

4 Prize2 numbers and the Zodiac sign correctRs. 500/- each

5 Prize2 numbers correctRs. 200/- each

6 Prize1 number and the Zodiac sign correctRs. 120/- each

7 Prize1 number correctRs. 40/- each

8 PrizeZodiac sign correctRs. 40/- each

(o) the value of the Super prize of the NLB Handahana lottery will start at three million rupees (Rs.3,000,000/-);

(p) if the existing Super prize is won a new Super prize will start at three million rupees (Rs.3,000,000/-) utilising the NLB Handahana Prize Reserve Account;

(q) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes out of the fifty three percent (53%) of ticket sales proceeds allocated for the award of prizes, ten percent (10%) of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

13A

said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next Super prize and the balance ninety percent (90%) shall be credited to the NLB Handahana Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance Act;

(r) where in any Handahana lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the NLB Handahana Prize Reserve Account or any other prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall.

(s) the NLB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the NLB Handahana Prize Reserve Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

(t) the effective date of the above prize structure is 3rd September 2023 and the Draw number is 535.

8. The NLB shall conduct the Dhana Nidhanaya national lottery referred to in rule 2(f) above subject to the conditions set out hereunder :-(1) There shall be conducted seven draws per week on all seven days of the week.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-).

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win only one prize. Provided however if an additional letter drawn matches with the additional letter in any winning ticket such winning ticket shall in addition be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-)

(4) In every ticket four numbers within the range of one to eighty two (1 to 82) shall be printed together with a letter from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English alphabet. Every printed ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.

(5) For the purpose of determining the winning ticket, four numbers from a barrel which contains numbers from one to eighty two (1 to 82) and a letter from a barrel which contains letters from ‘A’ to ‘Z’ of the English alphabet shall be drawn. Modern technology may be used for the lottery draw.

(6) Prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-

(a) forty nine percent (49%)of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes;

(b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(c) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the Consolidated Fund;

(d) twenty one percent (21%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

(e) where the English letter and the four numbers in a ticket agree with the English letter and the four numbers drawn, such ticket shall be awarded the Super prize of not less than eighty million rupees (Rs. 80,000,000/-);

(f) where the four numbers in a ticket agree with the four numbers drawn, two million rupees (Rs. 2,000,000/-) shall be awarded to that ticket;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.202414A

(g) where the English letter and any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with the English letter and any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 200,000/-);

(h) where any three numbers in one or more tickets agree with any three numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of six thousand rupees (Rs.6,000/-);

(i) where the English letter and any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with the English letter and any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two thousand rupees (Rs. 2,000/-);

(j) where any two numbers in one or more tickets agree with any two numbers drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of two hundred rupees (Rs. 200/-);

(k) where the English letter and any number in one or more tickets agree with the English letter and any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred and twenty rupees (Rs. 120/-);

(l) where any number in one or more tickets agree with any number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(m) where the English letter in one or more tickets agree with the English letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(n) where the Additional letter in one or more tickets agree with the letter drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-);

(o) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize StructureSuper PrizeEnglish letter and 4 numbers correctRs. 80,000,000/- 1 Prize4 numbers correctRs. 2,000,000/- each2 PrizeEnglish letter and 3 numbers correctRs. 200,000/- each3 Prize3 numbers correctRs. 6,000/- each4 PrizeEnglish letter and 2 numbers correctRs. 2 ,000/- each5 Prize2 numbers correctRs. 200/- each6 PrizeEnglish letter and 1 number correctRs. 120/- each7 Prize1 numbers correctRs. 40/- each8 PrizeEnglish letter correct Rs. 40/- each9 Prize Additional letterRs. 40/- each

(p) the value of the Super prize of the Dhana Nidhanaya lottery will start at eighty million rupees (Rs. 80,000,000/-);

(q) if the existing Super prize is won a new Super prize will start at eighty million rupees (Rs. 80,000,000/-) utilising the Dhana Nidhanaya Prize Reserve Account;

(r) in the event of any money remaining after the award of prizes, out of the forty nine percent (49%)of ticket sales proceeds allocated for the award of prizes, twenty percent (20%) of the said balance sum (surplus/remainder) shall be added to the next Super prize and the balance eighty percent (80%) shall be credited to the Dhana Nidhanaya Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of section 17 of the Finance Act;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

15A

(s) where in any Dhana Nidhanaya lottery draw, the monies allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the Dhana Nidhanaya Prize Reserve Account or any other prize reserve account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;

(t) the NLB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the Dhana Nidhanaya Prize Reserve Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

(u) The effective date of the above prize structure is 6th July 2023 and the Draw number is 1197.

9. The NLB shall conduct the NLB Mega Millions national lottery referred to in rule 2(g) above subject to the conditions set out hereunder:-

(1) There shall be conducted draws decided by the NLB.

(2) Every ticket shall be sold at the price of one thousand rupees (Rs. 1,000/-).

(3) Each ticket shall be eligible to win one or more prizes.

(4) Three hundred thousand (300,000) tickets shall be presented

(5) In every ticket Five batch numbers shall insert and those five batch numbers are drawn separately for prizes;(a) Super Prize Winning Number(b) One Million Winning Number (c) One Lakh Winning Number (d) One Thousand Winning Number(e) Foreign Tour Winning Number

(i) Super prize winning number consists of six digits batch number. First digit of the Super prize winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). Out of other five digits each number shall be presented within the range from number zero to number nine (0-9). (Every presented ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format.)

(ii) One Million winning number consists of four digits batch number. First digit of the One Million winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). Out of other three digits each number shall be presented within the range from number zero to number nine (0 to 9).

(iii) One Lakh winning number consists of four digits batch number. First digit of the One Lakh winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). Out of other three digits each number shall be presented within the range from number zero to number nine (0 to 9).

(iv) One thousand winning number consists of two digits batch number. First digit of the One thousand winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). Other digit shall be presented within the range from number zero to number nine (0 to 9).

(v) Foreign tour winning number consists of five digits batch number. First digit of the Foreign

tour winning number shall be presented within the range of number zero to number two (0 to 2). Out of other four digits each number shall be presented within the range from number zero to number nine (0 to 9).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.202416A

(6) The prizes shall be awarded in accordance with the following provisions:-a) fifty eight percent (58%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes;

b) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

c) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the relevant fund through Consolidated Fund;

d) twelve percent (12%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

e) where the six digits batch number in the Super prize winning number in a ticket agree with the six digits batch number drawn, such ticket shall be awarded the Super prize of fifty million rupees (Rs. 50,000,000/-);

f) where consecutive four digits batch number in the One Million winning number in one or more tickets agree with consecutively four digits batch number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one million rupees (Rs. 1,000,000/-);

g) where consecutive four digits batch number in the One hundred thousand winning number in one or more tickets agree with four digits batch number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one hundred thousand rupees (Rs. 100,000/-);

h) where consecutive two digits batch number in the One thousand winning number in one or more tickets agree with two digits batch number drawn, each such ticket shall be awarded a sum of one thousand rupees (Rs. 1,000/-);

i) where consecutive five digits batch number in the Foreign tour winning number in one or more tickets agree with five digits batch number drawn, each such ticket shall be offered a foreign tour;

j) Every presented ticket shall also contain a serial number in three formats namely the standard number format, the barcode number format and the quick response code format

k) accordingly the prize structure appears in the reverse of the ticket is as follows –

Prize Structure

Super Prize6 digits batch number correct in Super prize winning number

Rs. 50,000,000/-

Millionaire prize4 digits batch correct in Millionaire winning number

Rs. 1,000,000/- each

One lakh prize 4 digits batch correct in One Hundred Thousand winning number

Rs. 100,000/- each

One Lakh prize4 digits batch correct in One Thousand winning number

Rs. 1,000/- each

Foreign Tour prize5 digits batch correct in Foreign Tour winning numberForeign Tour(This will be decided by National Lotteries Board within the maximum limit of Rs. 400,000/-)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

17A

l) if the existing Super prize is won a new Super prize will be offered fifty million rupees (Rs. 50,000,000/-) utilising the NLB Mega Millions Prize Reserve Account or any other Prize Reserve Account;

m) in the event of actual award of prizes is less than the prize allocation of fifty eight percent (58%) of gross revenue, one hundred percent (100%) of the surplus/remainder shall be added to the NLB Mega Millions Prize Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1A) of Section 17 of the Finance Act;

n) where in any NLB Mega Millions lottery draw, the money allocated for the payment of prizes are insufficient to award the total number of prizes won, the money in the “NLB Mega Millions” Prize Reserve Account or any other Prize Reserve Account shall be utilised to meet the shortfall;

o) the NLB shall be entitled to utilise the money in the NLB Mega Millions Prize Reserve Account for the payment of prizes in any other national lottery conducted by the NLB if it is deemed necessary; and

p) the effective date of the above prize structure is 30th December 2023 and the Draw number is 01.

10. The NLB shall conduct the Sevana Scratch national lottery referred to in rule 2(h) above, subject to the conditions set out hereunder:-(1) The internationally recognized scratch and match technology shall be adopted to identify the prizes won. Promotional prizes determined by the NLB may be awarded through a special draw held in that behalf.

(2) There shall be two categories of tickets which shall be sold at the prices of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-) and fifty rupees (Rs. 50/-) each. The NLB shall present such number of tickets in each category as determined by the NLB for sale.

(3) The number of printed tickets which are contained in a pack of tickets shall be determined by the NLB.

(4) Forty nine percent (49%) to fifty three percent (53%) out of the proceeds fromthe sale of tickets shall be allocated for the award of prizes. The prizes shall be determined by the NLB within the range of forty nine percent (49%) to fifty three percent (53%) of the proceeds of the individual game.

(5) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission (Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(6) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the relevant fund through the Consolidated Fund;

(7) seventeen percent (17%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s Fund’;

(8) The ticket shall be printed in such manner that the instant prize cannot be identified by the holder of the ticket until the coat covering the scratching panel on the ticket has been removed.

(9) Every ticket shall clearly state the manner of determining whether a holder of a ticket has won a prize and the procedure for claiming such prizes.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.202418A

11. The NLB shall conduct the Samurdhi Scratch national lottery referred to in rule 2(i) subject to the conditions set out hereunder:-(1) The internationally recognized scratch and match technology shall be adopted to identify the prizes won. Promotional prizes determined by the NLB may be awarded through a special draw held in that behalf.

(2) There shall be two categories of tickets which shall be sold at the prices of forty rupees (Rs. 40/-) and fifty

rupees (Rs. 50/-) each. The NLB shall present such number of tickets in each category as determined by the NLB. All tickets printed shall be offered for sale.

(3) The number of printed tickets which are contained in a pack of tickets shall be determined by the NLB.

(4) Forty nine percent (49%) to fifty three percent (53%) out of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be

allocated for the award of prizes. The prizes shall be determined by the NLB within the range of forty nine percent (49%) to fifty three percent (53%) of the proceeds of the individual game.

(5) twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated for Agency Commission

(Commission for a Dealer 1.25% and Commission for an Agent 18.75%);

(6) ten percent (10%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the Consolidated Fund;

(7) seventeen percent (17%) of the proceeds from the sale of tickets shall be allocated to the NLB’s ‘Board’s

Fund’;

(8) Every ticket shall be printed in such manner that the instant prize cannot be identified by the holder of a

ticket until the latex coat covering the panel or panels of each ticket has been removed. Every ticket shall clearly state the manner of determining whether a holder of a ticket has won a prize and the procedure for claiming such prizes.

12. Notwithstanding the preceding rules, the following provisions shall apply in general in respect of any national lottery:-(1) Where a specific method for determining the winning tickets has not been introduced by these rules, the

draw of any national lottery shall be conducted by utilising one or more barrels or a draw machine or using modern technological methods.

(2) (a) The following particulars shall be stated in every ticket of any national lottery which does not offer instant prizes:-i) the name of the lottery;ii) the price of each ticket;iii) the number of the drawiv) the date of the draw;v) the manner of identifying the prize won and the value of the prize; vi) the QR Code; andvii) that the lottery is conducted by the NLB subject to the provisions of the Finance Act No. 11 of 1963 as amended.(b) The lottery draw shall be conducted in a studio or at a venue decided by the NLB.

(c) if the NLB is unable to conduct the particular lottery draw on the date mentioned in the lottery ticket due to exceptional or unavoidable circumstances the NLB shall inform the public the new date of the particular lottery draw.

(3) The following particulars shall be stated in every ticket of a national lottery which offers instant prizes:-i) the name of the lottery;ii) the price of each ticket;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

19A

iii) the manner of determining whether the ticket has won a prize and the manner of applying for the prize; iv) the QR Code; andv) that the lottery is conducted by the NLB subject to the provisions of the Finance Act No. 11 of 1963 as amended.

(4) The NLB shall publish Passive lottery results in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages in the official website of the NLB and other media comprising the winning number or numbers of the national lotteries, the value of the prizes thereof and such other information as the NLB deems necessary. The NLB reserves the right to publish the names and addresses of the winners.

(5) Tickets that are torn or disfigured shall not qualify to be presented to obtain a prize in a lottery. However a holder of such a ticket can, by paying the relevant expenses to the NLB, cause such ticket to be certified as genuine by an examiner of questioned documents or any other competent person and then present the same for the award of the prize.

(6) All tickets printed and all tickets offered for the Digital sale in respect of each lottery shall be presented for sale. The tickets shall be sold only at the prices stated in the ticket. Prior to each draw, all tickets printed, all tickets used for Digital sale and tickets not sold at that particular draw shall be documented and certified by the auditors for cancellation.

(7) If there is a printing error found in a lottery ticket the customer who has purchased the said ticket is entitled for a fresh ticket to the value mentioned in the said ticket.

(8) The NLB may from time to time award additional prizes as customer promotion prizes for the serial number or any other number or English letter or symbols appearing on the tickets of any national lottery by a normal or special draw conducted in that behalf with a view of increasing the sale of tickets of such national lottery.

(9) The draw shall be conducted in the presence of a Supervisory Board comprising a representative from the National Audit Office, a member from the Board of Directors of the NLB or an official of the Middle Manager category or Higher Manager category of the NLB and a Police Officer holding a post not below the rank of a Senior Superintendent of Police. A senior executive officer from a Ministry or Department or State Owned Enterprises presents on the decision of the NLB (hereinafter referred to as “the Supervisory Board”).

(10) The Chairman of the NLB or the member of the Supervisory Board who represents the NLB shall determine the time at which the winning number or letter or symbol should be drawn according to the operation of the equipment used in the draw. When such determination is made, the winning number or letter or symbol selected shall be deemed to be the legally drawn number or letter or symbol.

(11) The computer system used to conduct lottery draws using digital technology shall be examined by the member of the Supervisory Board represented by the National Audit Office. (12) The items on which numbers or letters or symbol are marked for the purpose of the draw shall be placed in a secure box after the draw and the said box shall be locked and sealed with a security sticker in the presence of the member of the Supervisory Board represented by the National Audit Office and executive officer of NLB. The said box containing the said items shall be opened in the presence of the member of the Supervisory Board represented by the National Audit Office and executive officer of NLB. The keys to the said box shall be kept in the custody of a Senior Executive officer of the NLB nominated by the Chairman of the NLB.

(13) There shall be an arrangement for the safe custody of the recording of the draw, until the same is transmitted over the television or any other digital media. The Chairman of the NLB shall decide on the practical arrangements to be adopted for the lottery draw programmes. The payments to be made to the relevant persons who perform duties in the lottery draw programmes shall be decided by the NLB.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.202420A

(14) All draw balls with numbers, letters and symbols used for a national lottery draw shall be duly examined by a recognised standards institution in order to ascertain whether all such material possesses the uniformity reasonably necessary for their durability.

(15) Persons below the age of eighteen years shall not be eligible to purchase national lotteries and the NLB shall not make any payment or prizes as winning prizes if a claim from any such person is received.

(16) Any person having a winning ticket duly filled the particulars requested by the NLB on the reverse of

the ticket, shall be entitled to receive a prize according to the relevant prize structure. Prizes shall be valid for a period of six (6) months from the date of the draw. Unclaimed prizes after the said validity period shall be forfeited.

(i) After the expiration of a period of six months reckoned from the date of conclusion of the prescribed lottery draw, any winning cash prizes of a national lottery which has not been granted to the person entitled thereto by reason of the fact that such person is not to be found shall be forfeited, and paid to the Consolidated Fund.

(ii) After the expiration of a period of six months reckoned from the date of conclusion of the prescribed lottery draw, any winning non cash prize of a National lottery which has not been granted to the person entitled thereto by reason of the fact that such person is not to be found shall be forfeited and added to the NLB’s stock of non cash prizes.

(iii) After the expiration of a period of six months reckoned from the date of conclusion of the prescribed lottery draw, any winning customer promotional cash / non cash prize of a national lottery which has not been granted to the person entitled thereto by reason of the fact that such person is not to be found shall be forfeited and paid back to the Prize reserve Account / stock of non cash prizes of the Board.

(17) (i) The NLB may have the sole right to discontinue an existing lottery. If the super prize of the existing lottery has not been won, it shall be transferred back to the Prize reserve account of the Board.

(ii) The NLB may have the sole right to relaunch an existing lottery. If the super prize of the existing lottery has not been won, the new super prize of the relaunched lottery may start with the same super prize or the super prize may be topped up using Prize reserve account or existing super prize may be transferred back to Prize reserve account and offer a new super prize using Prize reserve account.

13. The following rules shall apply for the sale of national lottery tickets :-

(1) The NLB may also use the Short Message Service (SMS) and Interactive voice recognition (IVR), mobile applications, web, and electronic devices (hereinafter referred to as the “digital means”) for the purpose of selling national lottery tickets, in addition to the sales generated using printed lottery tickets.

(2) The NLB may select Digital Dealers who offer Digital platforms to sell lottery tickets and the said Digital Dealers shall enter into agreements with the NLB.

(3) The NLB shall pay a commission to the said Digital Dealers for the service so obtained as determined by the NLB and specified in the agreement entered under rule 13(2).

(4) The Digital Dealer mentioned under rule 13(2) shall coordinate with the NLB, the mobile service providers, the mobile users and digital service providers. The Digital Dealer shall ensure an error free operation and shall be responsible for errors and omissions if any, in operation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'06Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.06.2024

21A

(5) Prizes for the winners shall be awarded in accordance with the prevailing prize structures of the national lotteries.

(6) For the purpose of the sales of computerised draw lottery tickets through digital means a data range / data base as determined by the NLB shall be allocated to the Digital Dealer from each national lottery draw from the master data base of such lottery.

(7) The Digital Dealer shall pay to the NLB the proceeds of the tickets sold in the number range allocated to such Digital Dealer deducting the commissions entitled by such Digital Dealer and the Digital Dealer in accordance with the agreements.

(8) The digital dealers may award as approved by the NLB from time to time as a sales and marketing promotional strategy with the approval of NLB.

(9) Where there is a prize for a national lottery purchased through a digital platforms which the actual owner and the end user are two different persons, the prizes shall be paid to the person whose name and National Identity Card Number are registered with the Digital Dealer.

(10) Where there is a prize for a lottery purchased through a digital platform, the Digital Dealer transfers the same to the wallet or any other digital means of the registered customer. The minimum amount of the prizes transfers to the wallet or any other digital means of the registered customer shall be decided by the NLB. The Digital Dealer shall transfer the winning prizes to the Wallet of the registered customer based on the list of prizes and serial numbers in the date base of prizes submitted to the Digital Dealer by the NLB.

(11) It is the responsibility of the Digital Dealer with whom the NLB has agreed to run this operation to coordinate with the digital platforms with regard to the payment of money to prize winners of lottery tickets generated through digital payment methods.

(12) The winners shall be liable to Government taxes imposed from time to time.

(13) Where there is an unforeseen operational problem such as failure in downloading, unexpected power failure or any other of such nature with regard to the number range allocated for the sales through digital means, the NLB reserves the right to cancel the said number range allocated for the sale through digital means for any particular lottery draw to enable the NLB to conduct the lottery draws scheduled for that day. However, all the purchasers who were affected by the said cancellation shall be allowed to purchase new tickets free of charge up to the total value of the purchases cancelled.

(14) The purchasers of national lotteries shall be subject to all the rules and conditions of the NLB and the Digital Dealer and the mobile operator.

14. The National Lotteries Board (No.2) Rule, 2011, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1795/37 of January 31, 2013, is hereby rescinded without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.

15. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires – “Finance Act” means the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 as amended;“National Lotteries Board” means the National Lotteries Board established under the Finance Act No.11of 1963;“National lottery” means a lottery conducted by the NLB under section 14(1) of the Finance Act. `EOG 06-0044

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.