THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of February 15, 2019

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 18.02.2019)

COCONUT DEVELOPMENT (AMENDMENT)

BILL

to amend the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Plantation Industries

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

2-2d

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

A

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 2 of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of1971 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) in order to appoint a WorkingDirector to the Board.

Clause 3: This clause inserts a new section 2A in the principal enactment to providefor the matters relating to the Working Director and is consequential to the amendmentmade by clause 2.

Coconut Development (Amendment)1

5

10

15

20

L.D.—O. 28/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE COCONUT DEVELOPMENT ACT, NO. 46 OF 1971

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Coconut Development(Amendment) Act, No. of 2019.

2.Section 2 of the Coconut Development Act, No. 46of 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that section asfollows:-

(1)by the substitution in paragraph (ix), for the words“the Board; and” of the words “the Board;”; and

(2)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (ix) ofthat subsection, of the following new paragraph:-

“(ixa) appoint a Working Director, inaccordance with the provisions of section2A, who shall not be a member of theBoard; and”.

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 2A of that enactment:-

2A.(1) The Minister may appoint to anyBoard established under the provisions ofsection 2 of this Act, a Working Director fromamong persons who have had wide experiencein the area of coconut development.

Short title.

Amendmentof Section 2of Act, No.46 of 1971.

Insertion ofnew section2A in theprincipalenactment.“WorkingDirector ofa Board.

2Coconut Development (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

(2) The Working Director shall-

(a)be a full time officer;

(b)assist the Chairman in thepromotion of the developmentof coconut cultivation andmarketing; and

(c)assist the Chairman in theadministration, managementand operation of the affairs ofthe Board including the co-ordination of the activities ofthe Board.

(3) The Minister may remove the WorkingDirector from office after assigning reasonstherefor.

(4) The term of office of the WorkingDirector shall be for a period of three yearsfrom the date of appointment and he shall beeligible for reappointment unless has beenremoved from office as referred to in subsection(3). Such reappointment shall be for not morethan one further term, whether consequent ornot.

(5) The office of the Working Director shallbecome vacant upon the death, removal fromoffice under subsection (3) or resignation byletter in that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(6) Where the Working Director by reasonof ill health, infirmity or absence from Sri Lankais temporarily unable to perform the duties ofhis office, the Minister shall appoint anothermember of the Board to act in his place.

30

Coconut Development (Amendment)3

5Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

(7) The Working Director shall be paidsuch remuneration as may be specified in therelevant Public Enterprise Circulars issued bythe Ministry of Finance.” .

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

4Coconut Development (Amendment)

Department of Government Printing