==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1973$58 - 2016 cqks ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'06'30

No. 1973/58 - THURSDAY JUNE 30, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STRATRGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008

Nortification under Section 3(2)

BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008as amended, I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in charge of the subject of Development Strategies andInternational Trade, do by this notification -

(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purpose of the aforesaid Act, a project to undertake Re-

development and Mixed Development Project (“Project”) on a land in extent of 8 acres located at SlaveIsland, Colombo 02 (“said area”) in the Western Province with an envisaged investment of United StatesDollars Four Hundred and Twenty Nine decimal Five Million (US$ 429.5 Million) which includes foreigndirect investment of United States Dollars One Hundred and Thirty Million (US$ 130 Million). The Re-Development of the said area will bring significant change in the landscape of Colombo city through higherstandard of living associated with better quality of life to the habitants whilst the establishment of the MixedDevelopment Project will importantly contribute to the economic development of the Country ;

(i) Through the inflow of foreign exchange inflows and strategic importance of the estalishment of mixed

development project with a total investment of United States Dollars Four Hundred and Twenty Ninedecimal Five Million (US$ 429.5 Million) which includes foreign direct investment of United StateDollars One Hundred and Thirty Million (US$ 130 Million) within the Project implementation Periodof Eight (08) years from the date of the Agreement signed between the Board of Investment of SriLanka and the Project Company.

(ii) This Project being a pioneer concept of urban renewal enabling the Urban Development Authority

(UDA) to acquire private lands in underdeveloped/underserved areas of Colombo City and provide abetter housing/commercial area with amenities to the habitants on a part of the said area. This approachensures the habitants to continue to enjoy the locational advantages and to improve their quality of lifeand living standards.

(iii) Through the construction of residential and commercial buildings including luxury apartments and

commercial spaces create avenue for development of a world class project that will transform theurban landscape and uplift the profile of the entire area ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'06'30PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.20162A

and

(iv) Through potential employment generation and consequent income earing opportunities for the people

of Sri Lanka.

(2) The Project Company is M/S One Colombo Project (Private) Limited (“the Project Company”). The date of

commencement of implementation and commercial operations of the Project shall be within eight (08)years from the date of the Project Agreement signed between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and theProject Company.

(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act,

No. 14 of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in this Notification shall apply to the Project Company.

SCHEDULE I

(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006

(i) Corporate Income Tax

The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income taxshall not apply for a period of Ten (10) years to the profit of the Project other than the sale of apartmentsand only a tax exemption period of six (06) years for the income generated through sale of apartments.

The said Tax Exemption Period shall commence from the year in which the Project Company makestaxable profit or six (06) years after commencement of construction of the projects, whichever occursearlier.

After the expiry of the tax holiday period, on the profit generated form activities other than the sale ofapartments, fifty per centum (50%) of Corporate Tax shall be applicable for six (06) years.

For avoidance of doubt, after the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period and the concessionaryperiod, income tax in respect of the profit and income of the Project Company shall be applicable interms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.

(ii) Tax on Dividends

Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the incometax during the said tax exemption period of Ten (10) years or six (06) years as the case may be and one(01) year thereafter.

(iii) Withholding Tax

The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following

(a) on interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees paid to

consultants ;

(b) on management fees and royalty payments provided however the total of such charges does not

exceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue ;

(c) on marketing fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five centum

(1.5%) of the gross operating revenue ; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'06'30PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.20163A

(d) on incentive management fees provided howerver the total of such fees does not exceed ten per

centum (10%) of the gross operating profit.

(iv) Paye Tax

The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Pay As You EarnTax (Paye) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number offifteen (15) employees at any given time. Subject to such ceiling, this exemption shall be applicablefor expatriate staff for a period of five (05) years from the date of the Project Agreement signedbetween the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company. Provided however, no singleemployee shall be given this exemption for a period of excess of five (05) years. Further, the ProjectCompany shall be required to gradually replace expatriate staff with local employees on a best effortsbasis.

(2) Value Added Tax (VAT) Act, No. 14 of 2002

All imports of project related goods and local purchases of project related goods or services required forthe implementation of the projects as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exemptedfrom the payment of Value Added Tax (VAT), during the project implementation period of eight (08) years.Any contractor or a sub-contractor who supplies to such contractor, to the project, will be entitled to thedeferment as permitted in the VAT Act.

The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of VAT as provided in the VAT Act, No. 14 of 2002 fromthe commencement of commercial operations.

(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) Act, No. 18 of 2011

The project company shall be exempted from the payment and charge of ports and Airports DevelopmentLevy (PAL), on the project related goods as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka importedduring the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years. The exemption shall be applicable on directimports by the Project Company for the Project or on imports by a contractor or sub-contractor for thepurposes of the Project, so long as the consignee of such goods is the Project Company, subject to thecondition referred to in item No. (05) below.

(4) The Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

The Project Company/Contractor shall be exempted from Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy imposedunder the Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 in relation to the Project.

(5) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items (Customs Ordinance - Chapter 235)

Exemption from Customs Duty will applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any otherproject related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported in the name of theProject Company implementing the Project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of theProject whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through the contractors of sub-contractors to the contractors provided that the goods consigned in the name of the Project Company otherthan the items mentioned in the Negative List within the project implementation period of Eight (08) years.The items in the Negative List will be also exempted from the Customs Duty where such items are either notwholly produced in Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Projectcompletion.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'06'30PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.20164A

As such, in general, project related goods could be imported through a contractor or a sub-contractor inrespect of the project within the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years as provide above, only ifthe Project Company is named as the consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have been done alongwith any other imports, the Project Company shall be solely responsible to ensure that the conessions notedherein shall be available only to project related goods of the Project Company. If so, for any reason thiscondition has been violated, taxes and levies payable under laws and regulations prevailing at the time shallapply to all goods that do not form part of project related goods for the project and such taxes shall becamepayable forthwith, It is noted that any personal effects imported by the Project Company for the private/personal use of any employee, consultant or any other of the Project Company shall not be treated as projectrelated goods. It is further noted that in view of the exemptions/concessions granted to the Project Companyunder the Strategic Development Project Act, No. 14 of 2008, no tenant or any other party associating withthe project or the project company will be granted any exemptions or concessions in view of or consequentto such association.

MALIK SAMARAWICKRAMA, MP,Minister of Development Strategies

and International Trade.

27th June 2016.

07-685

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.