PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

TRUST RECEIPTS (AMENDMENT)

————————

[Bill No. 299]

————————

Presented by the Minister of Justice and Prison Reformson 18th of September, 2019

(Published in the Gazette on July 15, 2019)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

to amend the Trust Receipts Ordinance (Chapter 86)

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

——————

This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 4 of the Trust Receipts Ordinance (Chapter 86), andthe legal effect of the section as amended is to provide for the legal consequences of trustreceipts registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019, but not under theRegistration of Documents Ordinance.

Clause 3: This clause makes provisions in regard to the period of enforceability of trustreceipts already registered under the Registration of Documents Ordinance and the requirementof registering those trust receipts under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019 uponcoming into operation of the said Act in order for them to be further enforceable and fortheir priority to continue to prevail.

1Trust Receipts (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

Short titleand date ofoperation.

Amendmentof section 4ofChapter 86.

25

L. D.- O. 64/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TRUST RECEIPTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 86)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Trust Receipts(Amendment) Act, No. of 2019 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2.Section 4 of the Trust Receipts Ordinance(Chapter 86) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of thatsection, by the substitution for the words “registered underthe Registration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale”,of the words and figures “registered under the SecuredTransactions Act, No. of 2019 as a bill of sale”.

3.(1) Where on the date of coming into operation ofthis Act, a trust receipt which has been registered under theRegistration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale is inforce, such trust receipt shall, for a period of two years fromthe date of coming into operation of this Act, continue to beenforceable, but shall be required to be registered underthe relevant provisions of the Secured TransactionsAct, No. of 2019 as a bill of sale, prior to the expiration ofsuch two years period.

(2) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) shall,on being registered under the Secured TransactionsAct, No. of 2019, be deemed to have been perfected fromthe date on which such bill of sale initially became legallyenforceble, and any priority which such bill of sale becameentitled to at the time it initially became legally enforceable,shall continue to prevail.

Provisionsrelating totrust receiptsregisteredunder theRegistrationofDocumentsOrdinance.

Trust Receipts (Amendment)2

5

(3) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) which is notregistered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019prior to the expiration of two years from the date of cominginto operation of this Act, shall become legally unenforceableafter the expiration of such period.

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

3Trust Receipts (Amendment)

Department of Government Printing