1Rent (Repeal)THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Part II of September 12, 2025

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 18.09.2025)

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 29.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00

RENT (REPEAL)

A

BILL

to repeal the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice and National Integration

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Rent (Repeal)

Short title and date of operation

Repeal of Act, No. 7 of 1972

Savings and transitional provisions

L. D.- O. 77/2023

An Act to Repeal the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.This Act may be cited as the Rent (Repeal) Act,No. of 2025 and shall come into operation on the date on which the certificate is endorsed in respect of this Act in terms of Article 79 of the Constitution (in this Act referred to as the “relevant date”).

2. The Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 is hereby repealed.

3. Notwithstanding the repeal of the Rent Act, No. 7 of1972 (in this section referred to as the “repealed Act”) by section 2 of this Act-

(a) no action shall be instituted for the ejectment ofa tenant who is in possession of any premisesgoverned by the provisions of the repealed Act onthe day immediately preceding the relevant date,for a period of one year from the relevant date;

(b) no landlord of any premises governed by theprovisions of the repealed Act on the dayimmediately preceding the relevant date, shalldemand or receive any rent in excess of theauthorised rent payable under the repealed Act, fora period of one year from the relevant date;

(c) any act or thing done or omitted to be done or anyright or entitlement acquired under the repealedAct shall be deemed to be valid for a period of oneyear from the relevant date;

5

10

15

20

25

Rent (Repeal)2

(d) any application filed or proceeding commenced before any Rent Board established under section 38 of the repealed Act and pending or remaining incomplete on the day immediately preceding the relevant date shall be proceeded with and concluded within a period of one year from the relevant date;

(e) any application filed or proceeding commenced before the Board of Review established under section 40 of the repealed Act and pending or remaining incomplete on the day immediately preceding the relevant date shall be proceeded with and concluded within a period of one year from the relevant date;

(f) any application made to the Commissioner for National Housing under the repealed Act and pending before him on the day immediately preceding the relevant date shall be proceeded with and concluded as if the said Act has not been repealed; and

(g) any action or proceeding or thing commenced under the repealed Act and pending or remaining incomplete on the day immediately preceding the relevant date may be withdrawn with liberty to file a fresh action seeking the same relief under any other law for the time being in force. Such fresh action shall be filed within a period of one year from the relevant date.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to prevail in case of inconsistency

5

10

15

20

25

30

Rent (Repeal)4

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING