==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20161A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1993$11 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 16 jeks nodod - 2016'11'16

No. 1993/11 - WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 10 OF 2006

Notice

IT is hereby notified under Section 97(1)(b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement foraffording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 03.04.2014 between the Governmentof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Singapore is set out in theSchedule hereto, has been approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 23.09.2015.

DR. R. H. S. SAMARATHUNGA,

Secretary,Ministry of Finance.Ministry of Finance,Colombo 01,04th November 2016.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI

LANKA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE FOR THE AVOIDANCE OFDOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON

INCOME

The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic ofSingapore, desiring to conclude an agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasionwith respect to taxes on income.

Have agreed as follows :

ARTICLE I

PERSONS COVERED

This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20162A

ARTICLE 2

TAXES COVERED

1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behlaf of a Contracting State or of its politicalsubdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.

2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income,including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property.

3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular.

(a) in Singapore :

- the income tax(hereinafter referred to as “Singapore Tax”) ;

(b) in Sri Lanka :

- the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises entered into agreements with theBoard of Investment.

(hereinafter referred to as “Sri Lanka Tax”).

4. The Agrement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date ofsignature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the ContractingStates shall notify each other of any significant changes made in their taxation laws.

ARTICLE 3

GENERAL DEFINITIONS

1. For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires :

(a) the term “Singapore” means the Republic of Singapore and, when used in a geographical sense, includes its

land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, as well as any martitime area situated beyond the territorial seawhich as been or might in the future be designated under its national law, in accordance with international law,as an area within which Singapore may exercise sovereign rights of jurisdiction with regards to the sea, the sea-bed, the subsoil and the natural resources ;

(b) the term “Sri Lanka” means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in the

Constitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well asthe exclusive economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Repulic of Sri Lankaexercises or may hereafter exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international lawand its national legislation ;

(c) the terms “a Contracting State” and “the other Contracting State” mean Singapore or Sri Lanka as the context

requires ;

(d) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons ;

(e) the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax

purposes ;

(f) the terms “enterprise of a Contracting State” and “enterprise of the other Contracting State” mean respectively

an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of theother Contracting State ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20163A

(g) the term “international traffic” means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a

Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other ContractingState ;

(h) the term “competent authority” means ;

(i) in the case of Singapore, the Minister for Finance or his authorized representative ;

(ii) in the case of Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or an authorized representative of the

Commissioner General ;

(i) the term “national”, in relation to a Contracting State, means ;

(i) any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of that Contratcting State ; and

(ii) any leagl person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that

Contrating State ;

(j) the term “tax” means Singapore tax or Sri Lanka tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any penalty

or fine imposed in respect of any default or omission in relatioin to the taxes to which this Agreement applies.

2. As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined thereinshall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the laws of that State for thepurposes of the taxes to which the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailingover a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.

ARTICLE 4

RESIDENT

1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “resident of a Contracting State” means any person who, underthe laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation, place ofmanagement or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision, localauthority or statutory body thereof.

2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph I and individual is a resident of both Contracting States then hisstatus shall be determined as follows :

(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him ; if

he has a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the Statewith which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests) ;

(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent

home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has anhabitual abode ;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the

State of which he is a national ;

(d) in any other case, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual

agreement.

3. Where by reason of he provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both ContractingStates, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is situated. Ifthe State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent authorities ofthe Contracting States shall settle the question by mutual agreement.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20164A

ARTICLE 5

PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT

1. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “permanent establishment” means a fixed place of businessthrough which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

2. The term “permanent establishment” includes especially :

(a) a place of management ;

(b) a branch ;

(c) an office ;

(d) a factory ;

(e) a workshop ; and

(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.

3. The term “permanent establishment” also encompasses :

(a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for exploration or

development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only if suchsite, project or activities lasts for a period of more than 183 days within any 12-month period ;

(b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise of a Contracting State through

empolyees or other personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only if activities of that naturecontinue (for the same or a connected project) within the other Contracting State for a period or periodsaggregating more than 183 days within any 12-months period.

4. Notwithstanding the preceding provsions of this Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be deemednot to include :

(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage, display or delivery of goods or merchandise belonging

to the enterprise ;

(b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of

storage, display or delivery ;

(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of

processing by another enterprise ;

(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or

of collecting information, for the enterprise ;

(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any

other activity of a preparatory or auxiliary character ;

(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-

paragraphs (a) to (e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from thiscombination is of a preparatory or auxiliary character.

5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independentstatus to whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other ContractingState and has, and habitually exercises, in that Contracting State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20165A

enterpise, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in that state in respect of any activities whichthat person undertaken for the enterprise, unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph4 which, if exercised through a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanentestablishment under the provisions of that paragraph.

6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall,except in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collectspremiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of anindependent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.

7. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the otherContracting State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent orany other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business.However, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, andconditions are made of imposed between that enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations whichdiffer from those which would have been made between independent enterprises, he will not be considered an agent of anindependent status within the meaning of this paragraph.

8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a companywhich is a resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through apermanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of theother.

ARTICLE 6

INCOME FROM IMMOVABLE PROPERTY

1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agricultureor forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.

2. The term “immovable property” shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State inwhich the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landedproperty apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the workingof, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources, ships, boats and aircraft shall not beregarded as immovable property.

3. The provisoins of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting or use in any other formof immovable property.

4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterpriseand to income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.

ARTICLE 7

BUSINESS PROFITS

1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprisecarries on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprisecarries on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them asis attributable to that permanent establishment.

2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in theother Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributedto that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterpriseengaged in the same or similar activities unde the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with theenterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20166A

3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions all expenses,including executive and general administrative expenses, which would be deductiable if the permanent establishment werean independent enterprise, insofar as they are reasonably allocable to the permanent establishment, whether incurred inthe Contracting State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere.

4. No profit shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanentestablishment of goods or merchandise for the entreprise.

5. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanentestablishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraph2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may becustomary, the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with theprinciples contained in this Article.

6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shallbe determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.

7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement,then the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

ARTICLE 8

SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT

1. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contacting State from the operation ofships in international traffic may be taxed in the first mentioned State, but the tax so charged shall be reducded by anamount equal to 50 per cent thereof.

2. Profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the other Contracting State from the operation ofaircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in that other State.

3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint businessor an international operating agency.

4. For the purposes of this Article, profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shallinclude :

(a) profits from the rental on a bareboat basis of ships or aircraft ; and

(b) profits from the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and related equipment for the

transport of containers) used for the transport of goods or merchandise.

where such rental or such use, maintenance or rental, as the case may be, is incidental to the operation of ships or aricraftin international traffic.

ARTICLE 9

ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES

1. Where

(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital

of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control of capital or an enterprise of

a Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20167A

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relationswhich differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but forthose conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may beincluded in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.

2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State and taxes accordingly - profitson which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so includedare profits which would have accured to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between thetwo enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shallmake an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment,due regard shall be had to the other provisons of this Agreement and the competent authorities of the Contacting Statesshall, if necesary, consult each other.

3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply where judicial proceedings have resulted in a final decision thatby action giving rise to an adjustment of profits under paragraph 1, one of the enterprises concerned is liable to penaltywith respect to fraud.

ARTICLE 10

DIVIDENDS

1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other ContractingState may be taxed in that other State.

2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividendsis a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividdends is a resident of the otherContracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed :

(a) 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company which holds directly

at least 25 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends ;

(b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.

The provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of whichthe dividends are paid.

3. The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares, “jouissance” shares or “jouissance”,rights, mining shares, founders’ shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, participating in profits, as well as incomefrom other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of theState of which the company making the distribution is a resident.

4. The provisons of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident ofa Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is aresident, through a permanent establishment situatd therein, or performs in that other State independent personal servicesfrom a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected withsuch permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 of Article 14, as the case may be, shallapply.

5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other ContractingState, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends arepaid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectivelyconnected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company’s undistributedprofits to a tax on the company’s undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consistwholly or partly or profits or income arising in such other State.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20168A

ARTICLE 11

INTEREST

1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in thatother State.

2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the lawsof that state, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shallnot exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2

(a) interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to the Government of the other Contracting State shall be

exempt from tax of the first-mentioned Contracting State ; and

(b) interest derived and beneficially owned by a banking or financial institution of a Contracting State shall be

exempt from tax in the other State.

4. The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or notsecured by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor’s profits, and in particular, incomefrom government securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prize attaching to suchsecurities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of thisArticle.

5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident ofa Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanentestablishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situatedtherein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishmentor fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.

6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where,however, the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State apermanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid wasincurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment of fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed toarise in the State in which the permanent establishment of fixed base is situated.

7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of themand some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amountwhich would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, theprovisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the paymentsshall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of thisAgreement.

ARTICLE 12

ROYALTIES

1. Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed inthat other State.

2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the lawsof that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shallnot exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.

3. The term “royalties” as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the useof, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films or films or tapes

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.20169A

used for television or radio broadcasting any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or forthe use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial,commercial or scientific experience.

4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident ofa Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanentestablishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situatedtherein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanentestablishment or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.

5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where,however, the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State apermanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and suchroyalties are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in theContracting State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.

6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of themand some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid,exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of suchrelationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of thepayments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisionsof this Agreement.

ARTICLE 13

CAPITAL GAINS

1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishmentwhich an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed baseavailable to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independentpersonal service, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the wholeenterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.

3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in internationaltraffic, or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.

4. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares of a company, other than sharestraded on a recognized stock exchange, deriving more than 50 per cent of their value from immovable property situated inthe other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State.

5. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Articleshall be taxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.

ARTICLE 14

INDEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES

1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State in respect of professional services orother activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstances, whensuch income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State :

(a) if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing

his activities ; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed inthat other Contrating State ; or

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201610A

(b) if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods exceeding in the aggregate 183 days in any

12-month period, in that case, only so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in thatother State may be taxed in that other State.

2. The term “professional services” includes especially independent, scientific, literary, artistic, educational orteaching activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.

ARTICLE 15

DEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES

1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived bya resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment isexercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrommay be taxed in that other Contracting State.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contacting State inrespect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if ;

(a) the recipient is present in that other Contracting State for a period of periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183

days in any 12-month period ; and

(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of that other Contracting State

; and

(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in that other

Contracting State.

3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employmentexercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxableonly in that State.

ARTICLE 16

DIRECTORS’ FEES

Directors’ fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a memberof the board of directors of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

ARTICLE 17

ARTISTES AND SPORTSPERSONS

1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as anentertainer, such as theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personalactivities exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.

2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an artiste or a sportsperson accrues not to theartiste or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 7, 14and 15, be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the artiste or sportsperson are exercised.

3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to income derived from activities exercised in a ContractingState by an artiste or a sportsperson if the visit to that State is wholly or mainly supported by public funds of one or bothof the Contracting State or political subdivisions or local authorities or statutory bodies thereof. In such case, the incomeshall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the artiste or the sportsperson is a resident.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201611A

ARTICLE 18

PENSIONS AND ANNUITIES

1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, any pension or other similar remuneration, and anyannuity, paid to a resident of a Contracting State from a source in the other Contracting State in consideration of pastemployment in that other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

2. The term “annuity” means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified orascertainable period of time under an obligation to made the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in moneyor money’s worth.

3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions paid and other payments made under a public schemewhich is part of the social security system of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.

ARTICLE 19

GOVERNMENT SERVICE

1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration, other than a pension paid by a Contracting State or a political

subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body thereof to and individual in respect of services rendered tothat State or subdivision, authority or body shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting

State if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who :

(i) is a national of that State ; or

(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering that services.

2.(a) Any pension paid by, or out of funds created by a Contracting State or a political subdivision, a local authority

or a statutory body thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivison, authorityor body shall be taxable only in that State.

(b) However, such pension shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if the individual is a resident of, and

a national of, that other State.

3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages and other similar remuneration,pensions and annuities, in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State ora political subdivision, a local authority or a statutory body thereof.

ARTICLE 20

STUDENTS

Payments which a student or business apprentice, who is or was immdeiately before visiting a Contracting Statea resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of hiseducation or training, received for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State,provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State. This is notwithstanding that such student or businessapprentice may receive remuneration for personal services rendered in the first-mentioned Contracting State, where suchremuneration is incidental to, or is to supplement, the payments received by him for the purpose of his education or training.

ARTICLE 21

OTHER INCOME

Items of income not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in a Contracting State maybe taxed in that State.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201612A

ARTICLE 22

ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXATION

1. In Singapore, double taxation shall be avoided as follows :

Where a resident of Singapore derives from Sri Lanka which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement,may be taxed in Sri Lanka, Singapore shall, subject to its laws regarding the allowance as a credit against Singapore tax oftax payable in any country other than Singapore, allow the Sri Lanka tax paid, whether directly of by deduction, as a creditagainst the Singapore tax payable on the income of that resident. Where such income is a dividend paid by a companywhich is a resident of Sri Lanka to a resident of Singapore which is a company owing directly or indirectly not less than 10per cent of the share capital of the first-mentioned company, the credit shall take into account the Sri Lanka tax paid bythat company on the portion of its profits out of which the dividend is paid.

2. In Sri Lanka, double taxation shall be avoided as follows :

(a) Where a resident of Sri Lanka derives income from Singapore which in accordance with the provisons of

this Agreement, may be taxed in Singapore, Sri Lanka shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the incomeof that resident, an amount equal to the tax paid in Singapore.

Such deduction shall not, however, exceed the portion of the tax as computed before the deduction is given,which is attributable to the income which may be taxed in Singapore.

(b) Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of Sri Lanka is

exempt from tax in Sri Lanka, Sri Lanka may nevertheles, in calculating the amount of tax on the remainingincome of such resident, take into account the exempted income.

ARTICEL 23

NON - DISCRIMINATION

1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or anyrequirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements towhich nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may besubjected.

2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other ContractingState shall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other Statecarrying on the same activites.

3. Nothing in this Article shall be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to :

(a) residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes

which it grants to its own residents ; or

(b) nationals of the other Contracing State those personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for tax purposes

which it grants to its own nationals who are not residents of that State or to such other persons as may bespecified in the taxation laws of that State.

4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly orindirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State toany taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connectedrequirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned Sate are or may be subjected.

5. Where a Contracing State grants tax incentives to its nationals desinged to promote economic or socialdevelopment in accordance with its natioinal policy and criteria, it shall not be construed as discrimination under thisArticle.

6. The provisons of this Article shall apply to the taxes which are the subject of this Agreement.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201613A

ARTICLE 24

MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE

1. Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for himin taxation not in accordance with the provisons of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by thedomestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a residentor, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 23, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case mustbe presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with theprovisions of the Agreement.

2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself ableto arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the otherContracting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreementreached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the laws of the Contracting States.

3. The competent authorities of the Contracting State shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement anydifficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for theelimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.

4. The competent authorities of the Contracting State may communicate with each other directly for the purposeof reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraph.

ARTICLE 25

EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION

1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevantfor carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic laws concerningtaxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or localauthorities insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restrictedby Articles 1 and 2.

2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the samemanner as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or procecutionin respect of the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above.Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in publiccourt proceedings or in judicial decisions.

3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State theobligation.

(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the

other Contracting State ;

(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of

that or of the other Contracting State ;

(c) to suppy information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or

trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public)

4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting Stateshall use its information gethering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may notneed such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to thelimitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline tosupply information solely becuase it has no domestic interest in such information.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201614A

5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supplyinformation solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in anagency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interest in a person.

ARTICLE 26

MEMBERS OF DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS AND CONSULAR POSTS

Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular postsunder the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.

ARTICLE 27

ENTRY INTO FORCE

1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other the completion of the procedures required by its law for thebringing into force of this Agreement.

2. The Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the later of these notifications and its provisions shall haveeffect :

(a) in Singapore :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts liable to be paid, deemed paid or paid (whichever is

the earliest) on or after 1 January of the calendar year next following the year in which the Agreemententers into force ;

(ii) in respect of tax chargeable (other than taxes withheld at source) for any year of assessment begining on

or after 1 January in the second calendar year following the year in which the Agreement enters intoforce ; and

(iii) in respect of Article 25, for request made on or after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.

(b) in Sri Lanka :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts paid or payable on or after 1 January of the calendar year

next following the year in which the Agreement enters into force ;

(ii) in the case of other taxes, in respect of taxes levied for taxable year beginning on or after 1 January of the

calendar year next following the year in which the Agreement enters into force ; and

(iii) in respect of Article 25, for requests made on or after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.

3. The Convention between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Government of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect toTaxes on income, signed on 29 May 1979, shall terminate and cease to have effect when the provisions of this Agreementcome into force in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article.

ARTICLE 28

TERMINATION

This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State mayterminate the Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the endof any calendar year after the expiration of a period of five years from the date of its entry into force, in such event, theAgreement shall cease to have effect :

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201615A

(a) in Singapore :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts liable to be paid, deemed paid or paid (whichever is the

earliest) after the end of that calendar year in which the notice is given ;

(ii) in respect of tax chargeable (other than taxes withheld at source) for any year of assessment beginning on

or after 1 January in the second calendar year following the year in which the notice is given ; and

(iii) in all other cases, after the end of that calendar year in which the notice is given.

(b) in Sri Lanka :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source on amounts paid or payable on or after the end of that calendar year

in which the notice is given ;

(ii) in the case of other taxes, in respect of taxes levied for taxable year beginning on or after 1 January of the

calendar year next following the year in which the notice is given ; and

(iii) in all other cases, after the end of that calendar year in which the notice is given.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Agreement.

DONE in duplicate at Colombo on this 03rd day of April 2014 in the English and Sinhala languages, both textsbeing equally authentic in the case of divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

Sgd/Prof. G. L. PEIRIS,Sgd/K. SHANMUGAN,For the Government ofFor the Government ofthe Democratic Soicalist Republic ofthe Republic of Singapore.Sri Lanka.

PROTOCOL

The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Singaporehave agreed at the signing of the Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion withrespect to taxes on income, that the following provisions shall form an integral part of the said Agreement.

1. With reference to the Agreement the term “statutory body” means a body constituted by statute and performingonly non-commercial functions which would otherwise be performed by the Government of a Contracting State.

2. With reference to Article 8 (Shipping and Air Transport) of the Agreement, it is understood that interest on fundsconnected with the operations of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be regarded as profits derived from theoperation of such ships or aircraft where such interest is incidental to the operations of ships or aircraft in international trafficin such case, the provisions of Article 11 shall not apply in relation to such interest.

3. With reference to Article 12 (Royalties) of the Agreement, it is understood that in relation to payments forcomputer software, such payments are royalties only if the payments are made for the right to use and exploit the copyrightin the program.

4. With reference to Article 18 (Pensions and Annuities) of the Agreement, it is understood that paragraph 3 of thisArticle shall be applicable to payments made, in the case of Singapore, under the Central Provident Fund.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.11.201616A

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned being duly authorised thereto have signed this Protocol.

DONE in duplicate at Colombo on this 03rd day of April 2014 in the English and Sinhala languages, both textsbeing equally authentic. In the case of divergence in interpretation, the English text shall prevail.

Sgd/Prof. G. L. PEIRIS,Sgd/K. SHANMUGAN,For the Government ofFor the Government ofthe Democratic Soicalist Republic ofthe Republic of Singapore.Sri Lanka.

12 - 334

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.