==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

w;s úfYI

wxl 2037$20 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'09'21No. 2037/20 - THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 21, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 3696 — 57 (09/2017)

NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Regulations of Education Statute No. 02 of 1990

EDUCATION STATUTE No. 02 OF 1990 OF THE NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE

AS the Chief Minister and Minister in charge of Law and Order, Finance and Planning, Local Government, RuralInfrastructure Facilities and Special Projects, Tourism, Education, Information Technology, Engineering and Culture ofNorth Central Province, I hereby announce that the following regulations are enforced by me under Section 12 of theEducation Statute No. 02 of 1990 of the North Central Province.

PESHALA JAYARATHNE BANDARA,Chief Minister and Minister of Education.

At the Chief Minister’s Office,On the date of 01 of September, 2017.

REGULATIONS

01. Providing Facilities to Provincial Schools.

I.For every school of the North Central Province, there shall be a main plan relating to the structure. Underthis plan, location of buildings of the school, how each section is located under each building and proposedchanges for future improvements shall specifically be illustrated therein.

II.The document relating to the carder, which has been approved by the Provincial Ministry and whichcontains information on the number of students of the relevant school, approved number of academic andnon-academic staff and shall be displayed within the main administrative unit to be conspicuous to everyone.

III.The Principal shall take strict measures to maintain the carder as per the said document.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.20172A

IV.The Principal, in collaboration with the School Development Society shall identify all the physical andhuman resource requirements for his school as per the school categorization and such requirements shallbe informed to the Provincial Director of Education through the Zonal director of Education.

02. School-Supervision Affairs

I.School-supervision affairs should be carried out quantitatively and efficiently, wherein, provisions statedin here shall be put into operation.

II.An annual plan shall be prepared by each Divisional Education Director to supervise schools within hisDivision. Such plan should be handed over in advance to the Principal of every school of his Division witha copy to the Zonal Director of Education and the supervision affairs shall be conducted according to thatplan.

III.The following mentioned sections of every school shall be supervised separately.

(a)Teaching affairs of school(b)Teachers’ and students’ attendance(c)Term notes, textbook use(d)Affairs of the School Development Society(e)School environment (school specifications)(f)Achievement of relevant subject-related and extracurricular targets(g)School’s Financial Control(h)Teachers’ and students’ Performance levels

IV.All the relevant officers should take measures to conduct the supervision activities in a manner coveringall the existing sections and notes should be kept in the service diary about such supervision activities.

V.The Instruction manual and standards introduced by the Education Ministry and Provincial Ministry ofEducation should be adopted in relation to school-supervision.

VI.In addition to this plan relating to schools, the Divisional Directors should conduct emergency inspectionaffairs on schools. Such emergency inspections should cover every school once during each academicterm.

VII.Zonal Directors of Education should supervise duties of all the Divisional Directors of his Zone. An annualplan in that regard should be prepared. In addition to this, emergency inspections should be carried out.

VIII.The Zonal Director of Education, after preparing the supervision plan for the oncoming year and subsequentto obtaining the prior approval of the Minister in charge of the subject, shall serve such plan to all thePrincipals through Zonal and Divisional Directors of Education prior to 15th of November of the relevantyear.IX.Provincial Director of Education shall annually prepare a plan to supervise Zones and Divisions. In additionto that, emergency supervisions should be carried out when and where necessary.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

03. Recruitment of Persons to Teachers’ Service and other affiliated services

IProvincial authorities should take action in accordance to provisions stated under Chapter 17 of theConstitution and provisions stated under Clause 32 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 amendedby Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1990.

IIRecruitments shall be made as per approved Teachers’ Service Minutes of North Central Province, whenrecruiting to the Teachers’ Service and as per relevant recruitment procedures with regard to the otherservices.

IIIWith regard to the teachers who are appointed on the basis of secondment to the Provincial Public Service,recruitments shall be made by the provincial authority subjected to the limitations imposed by the writtenlaw relevant to such appointment.

IVMeasures should be taken compulsorily to fill the vacancies existing in remote or critically remote schoolswhen recruiting teachers. She/He shall serve in such school at least for three years.

04. Placing Principals

IWhen placing a Principal who has been released to the Provincial Council, he shall be attached to a vacantposition taking into consideration about his seniority, talent and skills displayed.

IIWhen a Principal’s post becomes vacant in a school, having called applications from the graded Principalsof the Province and after interviewing them, the officer with highest qualifications and who obtained thehighest merits, shall be appointed to that position.

IIIHowever, when a Principal’s post of a school becomes vacant accidentally, the above mentioned provisionsshall not obstruct the appointment of a Principal temporarily to the said position until a graded Principal isappointed permanently.

IVThe Interview Board to select a Principal for a vacant Principal’s post shall comprise of following mentionedpersons.

(a)Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Education(b)Provincial Director of Education(c)Zonal Director of Education of the zone in which the relevant school is situated(d)Additional Director of Education (Administration)

VAnnual Principals’ transfers should be conducted by the Provincial Public Service Commission.

05. Transfers and disciplinary control of all the persons relevant to the Education field

Transfers and disciplinary control of all the officers relevant to the education field shall be performed as perprovisions of the Constitution, Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as well as according to Procedural Rules ofProvincial Public Service of North Central Province.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.20174A

06. Preparation of the Provincial Education Development Plan

IAccording to the proposals of Divisional and Zonal Directors of Education, the Provincial EducationDevelopment Plan shall be prepared by the Provincial Department of Education prior to thirty first (31) ofOctober of the previous year and it shall be a three year plan. Secretary of the Provincial EducationMinistry shall obtain approval for this prepared three year plan after forwarding it to the Minister in chargeof the subject of Provincial Education.

IIIn compliance to the three year Provincial Education Development Plan, having prepared an annual EducationDevelopment Plan per each calendar year, it shall be forwarded to the Secretary of the Provincial EducationMinistry by the Provincial Director of Education prior to 30th November of each previous year and alongwith the Secretary’s recommendations, approval of the relevant Minister in charge of the subject should beobtained for the said Development Plan.

IIIAccording to the exact dates stated in the Divisional and Zonal Pre-Development Plan, the said planshould be forwarded by the Provincial Director of Education to the Ministry’s Secretary for approval.

07. Implementing Education Development Plans at Zonal, Divisional and school level.

IIn accordance to the approved three-year and annual Provincial Development Plans, three-year and annualZonal Education Development Plans for each Zone should be prepared by Zonal Directors of Education asper instructions of the Provincial Director of Education.

IIIn accordance to the approved three-year and annual Provincial Development Plans, three-year and annualDivisional Education Development Plans for each Division should be prepared by Divisional Directors ofEducation as per instructions of the Zonal Director of Education.

IIIIn accordance to the approved three-year and annual Provincial Development Plans, three-year and annualEducation Development Plans for each school should be prepared by the Principal with representationsfrom the School Development Society and as per instructions of the Divisional Director of Education.

IVAnnual Development Plans and three-year Development Plans prepared at school level shall be forwardedto the Zonal Director of Education prior to 15th November and 31st October respectively and after obtaininghis approval, the Principal shall implement them within the school.

VWhen implementing the Development Plans which operate at Provincial, Zonal, Divisional and Schoollevel, the Provincial Director of Education, Zonal Directors of Education, Divisional Directors of Educationand Principal shall take measures personally to carry on their supervision and regulation activities relevantly.

08. Staff Evaluation

IProvincial Department of Education shall evaluate Teachers and Principals serving in schools before 15th ofJuly in every year.

IIWhen evaluating the performance of the Principal, the Board appointed by the Secretary to the Ministryshall conduct the evaluation annually to ascertain whether the annual targets assigned to the school bythe Provincial Department of Education has been achieved, how the academic progress of the school isas a whole, the report relevant to such evaluation should be forwarded to the Secretary.

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

IIIEvery school shall analyze the marks of first, second and third term examinations of every grade for allthe subjects and the performance and progress of the Teacher teaching each subject shall be based on thesaid analysis and on the analysis of results of national examinations, as applicable.

IVThe Principal shall hand over this analysis to the Zonal Director of Education at the end of every yearbefore the third term school- vacation, and the Zonal Director of Education shall,along with the relevantresults analysis, hand over the name-list of teachers to be appreciated to the Provincial Ministry ofEducation through the Provincial Director of Education before 30th January. Subsequent to inquiring aboutthe accuracy of the documents handed over thus, evaluation of Principals and Teachers should beconducted as suitable, under the Provincial Ministry of Education prior to 15th of July in every year.

VA report on whether the results-targets assigned annually by the Provincial Department of Education foreach school have been achieved or not in the relevant year, if not achieved, what reasons have affectedsuch non-achievement, shall be forwarded to the Secretary before 30th May of the following year.

09. Service Related Training Programs

IResidential trainings shall continuously be conducted for required subjects.

IIIn addition to the steps taken under the above stated sections, residential training camps should beconducted for subjects identified additionally.

IIIThe Provincial Director of Education, having called applications for the resource persons for the followingyear shall register them prior to 31st December in every year. The persons selected for the resource persons’reserve should possess post-graduate qualifications for the relevant subject or qualifications equal to thatlevel.

IVThe Provincial Director of Education should take heed to conduct all the teacher training affairs in a mannernot hindering the academic processes of schools.

10. Term Tests

I.In every school, term tests should be held as follows.

(a)First term test to be school based(b)Second term test to be conducted at Zonal or Provincial level(c)Final term test to be conducted at Provincial level

II.Supervision committees at school, Zonal and Provincial level should be appointed with regard topreparation of papers, typing, printing, distribution, preparation of marking sheets and marks analysis ofall term tests.

III.Boards to prepare question papers should be established at Divisional, Zonal and Provincial level before15th of December in every year to prepare term test papers. Forming of Question Paper Boards should be aresponsibility of the Additional Provincial Director of Education (Development) and Deputy ProvincialDirector of Education (Development), whereas, supervision of all the above mentioned affairs shouldbe a responsibility of the Provincial Director of Education.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.20176A

IV.Officers of the committee shall take responsibility with regard to examination inaccuracies.

V.The Committee composition for the term tests held at school level should be approved by the DivisionalDirector of Education, Committee composition for the term tests held at Zonal level should be approved bythe Provincial Director of Education, whereas, the Committee composition for the term tests held at Provinciallevel should be approved by the Provincial Secretary of Education.

VI.On the previous day to the commencement of term-concluding-holidays, every Principal should takeaction to hand over to students the students’ Progress Report which contains marks obtained by a studentfor each subject at the term test.

VII.All the above mentioned examination affairs should be performed on the instructions of Deputy AssistantDirector of Education in charge of examination affairs and Provincial Director of education.

11. When deploying Boards of Judges for various competitions held among school children, action must be taken inthe following manner.

I.Selecting a Board of Judges for competitions held in a Division from among academic staff of anotherDivision or from among veterans of the subject field.

II.For competitions held within the zone, deploying persons serving in other Zones.

III.For Provincial competitions, selecting representatives from the two districts of the province as well asrepresentatives from another province in equal numbers.

12. Formal, informal and special educational programs

I.When formal and informal educational programs are implemented, the schools of the Province shall takeaction as per announcements made in relation to ceremonies and commemorations conducted by theMinistry of Education at national level.

II.The Provincial Education Director shall take action to issue prior instructions about ceremonies identicalto the province after having included them into the annual calendar and to hold such ceremonies.

III.With regard to activities concurrent to the curriculum, action should be taken as per national and provincialpolicies, circulars which shall be conducted under the supervision and guidance of the Provincial Directorof Education.

13. Asset Management

I.Where any well-wisher makes a donation to a certain school, it shall be made under the approval of theZonal Director of Education and Provincial Director of Education.

II.The Principal of a school shall take measures to properly maintain the school by maintaining all thebuildings and property belonging to the school.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

III.With regard to teaching aids, teaching equipment, visual aids, audio-video equipment as well as furniture,computers or any other requirement of a school; receivable on Government or Provincial Council provisions,such requirements shall be informed before 30th June of the previous year through Zonal Director ofEducation, Provincial Director of Education to the Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Education.

IV.The Zonal Director shall forward to the Secretary of the Provincial Ministry through the Provincial Directorof Education prior to 30th June of every year, the requests to obtain teaching equipment, visual aids andaudio-visual equipment for school requirements; equipment required for school laboratories on Governmentor Provincial Council provisions and the Provincial Secretary of Education shall take every measure todistribute the relevant equipment to schools before the termination of first term of the following year.

V.A library should be maintained in every school to be appropriate to the number of students and when andwhere possible, a teacher possessing knowledge about Library Science should be deployed as the incharge therein.

VI.School timetable shall be prepared in a manner ensuring that every child uses the library at least for oneperiod during a week.

VII.Measures should be taken to conduct Annual Reading Day Competitions at school, Divisional, Zonal andProvincial level.

14. Determining the boundaries for Divisional, Zonal Education offices shall be decided by the minister after consideringabout the recommendations of a committee appointed by the Provincial Minister of Education.

15. Emergency holidays for provincial schools on the basis of public requirements of the Province shall be decided bythe Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Education.

16. Subsequent to analyzing the examination results, the Principal shall implement educational feedback programs forbackward students and the relevant Divisional and Zonal Director of Education shall supervise them.

17. In collaboration with the Provincial Director of Health Services, the Provincial Director of Education shall planmedical examinations, treatments, health promotional programs and Provincial Secretary of Education shall regulatesuch affairs. A Health Society shall be established within each school.

18. According to the policies and standards presented by the Minister in charge of Education, grading and categorizationof schools of the province and opening up of new schools should be carried out.

19. Conducting tuition classes for students receiving school education in the North Central Province.

I.Institutions conducting external tuition classes for school children shall register under the ProvincialDepartment of Education and such classes shall be conducted subjected to the criteria for such classesand decisions issued by the Provincial Director of Education.

II.Up to 14.00 Hours on every school-day and up to 14.00 Hours on every Sunday, on Full Moon PoyaDays as well as on special religious and national festival days, tuition classes for school children in theNorth Central Province shall not be held in any way.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.20178A

III.These regulations are not meant to support the conducting of external tuition classes,instead, they shallbe relevant to maintain student education systematically under disciplined and virtuous behavior and atthe same time, preserving the standards of teaching.

IV.Persons/ institutions conducting private tuition classes to school children by contravening theseregulations or persons supporting such affairs will be considered as offenders under these regulationsand subsequent to presenting before an authorized Court, if found guilty, they shall be punished bysubjecting to a fine of not less than Rs.50,000/- or imprisonment for a period of not less than threemonths.

V.If a teacher or a person of the academic staff/ officer of public service is found to have engaged inteaching in tuition classes having obtained his personal leaves, considering that he/she had made anoffence, the Provincial Director of Education shall report it to the disciplinary authority to takedisciplinary action.

VI.In no way shall tuition classes be conducted for school children before 7.00 a.m. and after 7.00 p.m. inevery day of the week and such holding of classes shall be considered as child abuse/ contravention ofchildren’s rights.

VII.If it is revealed that certain student is attending tuition classes during school hours without attendingschool, the Principal shall take disciplinary action against such student.

VIII.The average of the attendance of students sitting for national examinations should be 80% as per thenational policy and having considered students who have not fulfilled it as students who have not completedthe prescribed syllabus; they shall not be permitted to sit for the examination. These calculations regardingattendance should be performed at academic term level.

Teacher Transfer Policy of the North Central Province

20. The Teacher Transfer Policy should be implemented in a suitable manner to achieve more productivity to theeducation process of the North Central Province as well as for welfare of teachers and students of that province.

21. Implementation of the Teacher Transfer Policy of North Central Province shall accord to provisions of Section32 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 and provisions consequential to such.

22. When implementing the Teacher Transfer Policy of North Central Province, the following matters should beobjectives of the said policy.

I.As education process should always be student-centered, students’ requirements should be consideredtop-most when transferring teachers.

II.Transfers should take place in a manner ensuring confidence on teachers’ professional safety and enablingthe achievement of maximum service satisfaction and service delivery devoid of any unreasonable fearsof unfair teacher transfers.

III.The main objective of the Teacher Transfer Policy is to minimizing irregularities seen in the NorthCentral Province with regard to education.

IV.Teacher transfers shall be made in a manner of fair distribution of human resources of Teachers’ servicewhich may be limited to certain Educational Zone, Division or school and enabling the use of suchresources by students of other areas of the Province.

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

V.Since the improvement of the quality of education relies on teachers’ knowledge and skills, space shouldbe provided through the Teacher Transfer Policy for teachers to improve their knowledge and skills.

VI.This Policy shall provide for guidance towards maximum efficiency through proper human resourcemanagement of the relevant field in the area.

VII.Except in a situation where a disciplinary action is taken or is about to be taken against certain teacher andwhere such disciplinary action is facilitated by a transfer, in all the other occasions, Transfers of theTeachers’ service shall be based on recommendations of a Teacher Transfer Board established formally.

VIII.Teacher transfers shall always be made by a Teacher Transfer Board established formally except in situationsof disciplinary action being taken against a teacher or such disciplinary action is about to be taken againsta teacher or on urgent and specific situations kindled on service requirement or owing to teachers’ requestson health conditions or on spouse’s transfer or mutual transfers. With regard to such teacher transfersmade on the above mentioned specific reasons, the Teacher Transfer Board shall be assembled within twoweeks and presented to the Teacher Transfer Board for reference.

IX.Format A under Schedule 01 for Annual Transfers and for an application for a reason external to it, FormatB should be used.

X.Completed teacher transfer applications shall be handed over by the applicant to the Zonal Director ofEducation along with the Principal’s recommendations. It shall be the responsibility of the Zonal Directorof Education to forward those applications to the Provincial Director of Education for future action.

XI.Service attachments shall never be made. Attachments made with regard to pregnant teachers as percircular provisions too should be carried out on recommendations of the Teacher Transfer Board.

Zonal Teacher Transfer Boards shall assemble on Friday of the third week of every month and the ProvincialTeacher Transfer Board shall assemble only on the Friday of the fourth week of every month.

XII.Measures shall strictly be taken to perform annual and other transfers to ensure that no school hasteacher-excess.

23. The following qualifications shall be there for transfers:-

I.For all types of transfers, conditions stated in the first appointment letter should be fulfilled. Further, theconditions included into it at the time of reinstatement of service too should be fulfilled.

II.The minimum mark limit and time prescribed by the Provincial Transfer Policy should be fulfilled.

24. School categorization shall take place as stated below and based on the requirement to implement national andprovincial teacher transfer policy, timely categorization of schools should be adopted in each occasion.

(1)More popular schools(2)Popular schools(3)Non-popular schools

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201710A

(4)Remote schools(5)Critically remote schools

25. Every teacher shall serve a minimum compulsory service period in a school named by the Standing Committee asstated in the Provincial Teachers’ Service Minutes. Accordingly,

(1)In a Critically Remote or Remote school-Minimum of 03 years(2)Non-popular school-Minimum of 04 years(3)Popular school-Maximum of 05 years(4)More Popular school-Maximum of 05 years

26. The method for allocation of marks with regard to transfers shall be as follows.

I.When granting transfers, the Education Divisions of the North Central Province are divided into two mainparts. Kebethigollawa Zone, Dimbulagala Zone, Medirigiriya Division and Elahera Division in HingurakgodaZone and Vilachchiya Division in Anuradhapura Zone and Galenbindunuwewa Division inGalenbindunuwewa Zone belong to one group. The schools belonging to these zones will be categorizedas follows and awarded with marks.

AType of SchoolMarks per year

Critically Remote10Remote08Other Schools05

II.Other Educational Zones in the North Central Province are considered equally and the following marks areawarded for service period in those Divisions.

B

Type of SchoolMarks per year

Remote07Critically Remote08Non-popular05Popular03Highly Popular02

III.In addition to the matters stated in above (1) and (2), additional 02 marks will be allocated if married once ascalculated, whereas, 02 marks for each child will be allocated if there are children under 07 years of age. Forthe whole service period one mark will be allocated per year. Further, when applying for inter-provincialtransfers, applicants who have completed more than 05 years’ service will be given one mark for each year.When transferring teachers who have completed more than ten years’ service within the Province, theabove marking system should not be adopted.

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

IV.Provincial Teacher Transfer Board shall timely decide on the total marks required for a transfer. On noreason shall teachers be attached to another Province.

27. I.According to the approved Teacher Carder list, teachers who have no definite timetablefor relevant subjects shall be considered as excessive and the Principal shall inform the Zonal Director ofEducation about such excess and immediate action should be taken by the Zonal Director of Education toplace such teachers within the Zone or to place them on inter-zonal transfers through Provincial Directorof Education to schools where there are vacancies.

II.Transfers of Excessive Teachers:-

The Provincial Director of Education, Zonal Director of Education shall identify the excess teacher orteachers through the above mentioned marking procedure. Teacher or teachers who obtain minimum marksshall be considered as excessive. When there is a teacher shortage in a school of certain Education Zone,if there is an excess of teachers in another school of the same Zone for the same subject, balancing it shallbe performed based on the recommendations of the Zonal Transfer Board.

When there is a teacher shortage in a Zone in relation to a particular subject and if there is a teacher excessin another zone for the same subject, balancing such excess shall be performed on the recommendations ofthe Inter-Zonal Teacher Transfer Board.

III.The disciplinary authority shall take disciplinary and legal action against the relevant teacher who isconsciously aware that he/she is a teacher in excess, for the offence of receiving salaries without performinga duty. Likewise, having considered that the Principal, Divisional Director of Education, Zonal Director ofEducation and Provincial Director of Education have consciously made an offence with regard to retaininga teacher surplus, disciplinary and legal action should be taken against such parties.

28. Transfer Board:-

I.Teacher Transfer Boards shall be established with the objective of performing service-place transfers.

II.Teacher Transfer Boards shall be established at following level

(a)Zonal Teacher Transfer Boards(b)Inter-Zonal and Inter-Provincial Teacher Transfer Boards

29. Composition of Teacher Transfer Boards:-

(1)Zonal Teacher Transfer Board:

The Chairman of the Zonal Teacher Transfer Board shall be the Zonal Director of Education or arepresentative nominated by him. In addition to the representative nominated by the Zonal Director ofEducation for the Chairman’s position, two other members shall be nominated for the Transfer Board

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201712A

and one of them should be the Director in charge of Establishment Affairs. Whenever and wherepossible, one of these two officers should be an officer who can operate in the Tamil medium. Inaddition to this, a representative nominated by legal Trade Unions that have been registered underthe Trade Unions Ordinance too should be included.

Assistant Director of Education (Administration) shall be appointed as the Secretary.

(2)Inter-Zonal and Inter-Provincial Teacher Transfer Boards,

(a) Provincial Director of Education shall be the Chairman.

(b) There shall be two representatives prescribed by the Provincial Director of Education and one ofthem should be the Director in charge of Establishments Affairs in the Provincial Department ofEducation and whenever and where possible, one of the two officers nominated by the ProvincialDirector of Education should be a Director in charge of the Tamil medium.

(c) Trade Union representatives: Trade Union representation as per the Trade Union Ordinance.

(d) The Secretary of the Inter-zonal and Inter-provincial Teacher Transfer Board shall be the AdditionalDirector of Education (Administration) of the Provincial Department of Education.

(3)Inter-zonal Teacher Transfer Board shall function with regard to Inter-provincial teacher transfers.

(4)(I) Application calling – From the first week of May up to 30th JuneInter-zonal and Inter-provincial – announcing the list on 30thSeptemberInter-zonal teacher transfer list – on 30thOctoberBoard of Appeal – 30th November

(II) Applications for annual transfers shall be called from the first week of May inevery year and shall conclude by 30th June, whereas, by November 30th Transfer List should beannounced.

30. The Board of Appeal:

I.A teacher dissatisfied by the decision of Teacher Transfer Board may present an appeal to the Board ofAppeal.

II.The Provincial Director shall become the Chairman of the Zonal level Appeal Board, whereas, the ProvincialSecretary of Education or his representative shall be the Chairman of Inter-zonal and Inter-provincialBoards of Appeal and two other representatives nominated by the Provincial Secretary shall be included.One of the said two officers should be an officer who has served in the Transfer Board. The other officershould not have served in the Transfer Board. The composition of the Zonal Transfer Appeal Boardshould be arranged in the same manner.

III.On behalf of all the Trade Unions, one representative should be selected on the consent of the majority ofTrade Unions. Representatives shall be selected according to the Trade Unions’ Ordinance.

31. Information collection and reporting of meetings:

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

The decisions taken at the Teacher Transfer Boards and Appeal Boards shall be noted down and reportedby the Secretary of the Board.

Annual service place transfers shall be conducted through internet by a software.

32. Annual transfers of Principals should be carried out according to the Principals’ Transfer Policy.

33. Teachers’ Code of Conduct on Virtuous Behavior

Teachers’ Code of Conduct on Virtuous Behavior broadly includes the honesty, responsibility, integrity that shouldbe inculcated within oneself and attitudes, responsibilities and customs expected from teachers as being personswith exemplary social responsibility. The fields relating to that should be as follows.

(1)The teacher as a person,

The following social expectations should get fulfilled by a teacher as a social leader with good living, disciplineand good conduct.

(a) While following the procedures required for good health, pursuing the standards of physical hygiene andcleanliness.(b) Always attired in clean, charming and proper dresses agreeable to culture and preserving decency andrestraint.(c) Refrain from unhealthy habits such as consuming liquor and drugs, smoking cigarettes, chewing betel, aswell as, from various abuses and encouraging others to refrain so.(d) Not make acquaintances with persons disgraced with regard to private and social behavior.(e) Not boast in front of teachers, students and others about personal wealth, family alliances and associationswith persons holding higher positions.(f) Not utilizing own wealth, family alliances and friendships with persons holding higher offices to scareoff or with the intention of harming other teachers, students or other persons, instead, bravely behavingin front of people with such intentions.(g) Refrain from persuading students to accept matters pertaining to one’s own private viewpoints on life orreligion or political standing.(h) Not responding to students on personal bonds.(i)Not making unnecessary gestures to mentally distress students.(j)Not utilizing one’s own special skill on certain subject, language or other field to deplore other teachers.(k) Not become radical in front of opinionated persons and behaving properly as a balanced personnel bydiscarding extremist standings.(l)Be prepared always to protect colleague teachers or students or other person in the face of unfair, unjustostracizes and scare offs.(m) Refrain from using the mobile telephones when working with students in the classroom and outside theclassroom.(n) While always respecting to social standards, behaving in an exemplary manner to children and the wholesociety in every way such as customs, character and private life.(o) When there are violent actions against people or animals, taking action by displaying one’s own sensitivityand by showing empathy, helping persons affected by natural disasters or by human activity such aslaziness or neglect.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201714A

(2)The teacher in the place of parents

By taking into consideration about the legal concept that the teacher is students’ positional parents withregard to school children,

(a) Always safeguarding the trust kept in him by parents and children and taking action in a manner promotingchildren’s trust on parents and guardians.(b) By discarding the factors such as caste, beliefs, gender status, social standing, religion, language, place ofbirth, providing love, care and protection to all the children fairly and impartially.(c) Addressing students only by their names or in endearing terms such as daughter, son.(d) Being on alert about students’ special needs and problems that can be affecting them and taking measuresto provide such children with required facilities and to refer them for consultants’ advises.

(3)The teacher as a knowledge-giver, skills and attitude developer

Considering knowledge dissemination, development of skills and good attitudes as main responsibilities of ateacher, the teacher shall function as below.

(a) As per Children’s Rights Convention of United Nations (1989), operating in a manner that ensurespreservation of rights enjoyed by children.(b) Always accomplishing one’s own responsibility in proper preparation.(c) Ensuring that the knowledge given is accurate, relevant and suitable to students.(d) Following holistic approaches with regard to teaching.(e) By encouraging questioning and discussion during the teaching time, providing space for the students toimprove their critical thinking ability.(f)For students who require additional information relating to the lesson, explaining about ways and methodsfor obtaining such information and allowing them to inquire further information from him.(g) Providing facilities that persuade students for self-study. Especially, persuading students for reading.(h) Acting as a person who improves students’ attitudes and persuader towards such.(i)Never engaging in teaching by charging money from one’s students.

(4)The teacher as a creative guide and advisor

Considering that a valuable service should be rendered from a teacher as a creative guide and advisor for thestudents assigned to his custody;

(a) Prepare properly in terms of knowledge, skills and good attitude to accomplish the said responsibility,(b) Be on alert about weaknesses and problems encountering students and taking action to provide expertiseadvises for solving such problems,(c) Not reveal confidential information relating to weaknesses or problems of a student to other personsexcept to the relevant student’s parents and legal caretakers,(d) By maintaining a friendly relationship with parents, providing them with easy access in necessary occasionsto get the problems relating to their child solved,(e) Never utilize teacher-student relationship improperly;instead, taking steps to prevent students fromsituations where they may become prey to abuse.(f)Always taking action to develop student’s knowledge, skills and social ethics

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

(5)The teacher as an evaluator

By considering assessment and evaluation as important components of the teaching-learning process, theteacher shall;

(a) Constantly update the knowledge required for that and develop his knowledge, skills and attitudes relatingto that,(b) Be on alert about students’ learning weaknesses and problems and taking all the measures to amelioratethem including expertise’ advises for remedial measures.(c) Executing evaluation affairs with transparency without any differences on children or of any personal-relationships and in a way that build up students’ trust.

(6)The teacher as a professional

Owing to the reason of accumulation of a mass of theoretical knowledge and skills, the teacher is consideredas a professional, therefore;

(a) Always preserve the great traditions and loftiness, characteristic to the teaching profession.(b) It is compulsory to maintain one’s professional knowledge and skills in a high standard as well as inupdated condition.(c) Acceptance of teaching as a profession and service rely on the availability of required knowledge, skillsand attitudes in the teacher community; therefore, the teacher, share his knowledge, skills and attitudeswith others and enthusiastically assist the improvement of knowledge, skills and attitudes of all theteachers.(d) Owing to the lack of required qualifications in the teaching profession, the teaching profession mightget disgraced; therefore, the teacher should acquire the relevant qualifications and provide the assistancenecessary for the service improvement of colleague teachers.(e) Teachers with defiecient qualifications should not expect promotions until they fulfill their qualificationsbecause promoting the grade of teachers who have not completed required qualifications may damagethe profession; instead, the teachers should support the programs intended to provide promotions toqualified persons.(f) Functioning with dignity and good sentiment about one’s profession.(g) Wining public trust through the provision of quality education to all the students.(h) Prevent from taking measures on one’s private or professional objective that may harmfully influencethe lives of student-community or their future and not encouraging such harmful/illegal actions.(i) Without criticizing about colleagues of the work place with students, other teachers, officers and parents;working with proper co-operation and unity within the institution and outside it in every activity relatingto the subject and external to the subject.(j) Properly providing the successor with written documents and verbal information that are required forthe affairs of the next year.(k) As soon as an improper situations harmful to the dignity of the profession arises, reporting such to therelevant authorities.

(7)The teacher as a person responsible for management

(a) Being aware of rules and regulations governing one’s profession, as well as of one’s own responsibilitiesto the higher management.(b) Assisting preparation of policies relating to the school and implementation of them.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201716A

(c) Following the instructions of the management and in problematic situations, questioning formally andcalmly about the relevant issues.(d) Inculcating a mutual respect with regard to one’s professional activities and their results.(e) Getting fulfilled all the official affairs fairly through proper authorities and through proper channels.

(8)Pioneer of society and nation

As the teacher is always considered as a pioneer in society and nation,

(a) Identifying the social problems and by deploying children in activities created to face the challengesposed by such social problems, taking measures to generate a patriotic younger generation to the society.(b) Through the inculcation of good thoughts and ethics that build up peace among various ethnicities,religious and language communities, taking action to ensure social integrity and harmony.(c) While functioning faithfully to one’s own school, society, country and nationality, guiding one’s ownstudents in the same path.

34. With regard to the affairs conducted contrary to the Teachers’ Code of Conduct, action should be taken accordingto the Disciplinary Procedure of the North Central Province or according to the provisions of the EstablishmentCode.

35. According to the social expectations expected from a teacher as a person with proper conduct, discipline and goodcharacter, he shall follow the following regulations.

(a)Not frequent disgraceful places such as taverns or betting places(b)Not behave in a disgraceful manner as a person abused to liquor, betting, smoking and drugs(c)Always behave in decent manner and use decent words(d)Not engage in occupations relating to …………. And activities harmful to physical health and goodexistence of society.(e)Should follow principles connected to conflict resolution, human rights, children’s and women’s rightsand not engage in activities that violate the above mentioned principles such as deployment of childrenin domestic service, abuse them and prevent from assisting such activities.

36. As the teacher takes the parents’ position with regard to school children, he shall always function without anydifferent treatment to a student or group of students, while treating all equally, fairly without any differences andgiving special consideration to persons requiring additional attention.

37. The teacher, considering knowledge-giving, skills and attitude development as his main responsibility, shall verycarefully follow the following matters.

I.Preparing properly to accomplish his responsibility.II.Ensuring that the knowledge, skills and attitudes given are accurate and the methods utilized are suitablein terms of age and nature of students.III.Ensuring totally about students’ safety while in school as well as outside school during the teaching-learning process.IV.The teacher, allowing space for students who require additional information and methods usable to obtainadditional information, to reach him without hesitation.V.Prevent from discussing unnecessary matters with students except matters relevant directly or indirectlyto his subject or lesson or matters pertaining to students’ discipline.

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

38. Compulsory Responsibilities of the Principal:

I.Providing timetables to teachers and supervision of them directly and through Deputy Principals of theschool shall be the responsibility of the Principal.II.The Principal shall take action to direct students maximally to the learning-teaching process within theschool hours.III.Preparation of students for Divisional, Zonal, Provincial and National competitions should at least bemade prior to one calendar month to the commencement of such competition. The Principal, DivisionalDirector of Education, Zonal Director of Education and Provincial Director of Education shall takemeasures regarding it.IV.Making school children participate in external ceremonies during school hours, letting external ceremoniesbe held within school premises should not be allowed unless under a proper permission of ProvincialDirector of Education.V.During school days, should not leave school premises within the official hours without properly obtainingprivate, casual or duty leave.VI.The Principal shall personally be accountable for covering of syllabus as per term note. Getting the saidtarget achieved through the teachers is a responsibility of the Principal.VII.Retaining the necessary staff within the school according to the approved teacher, principal and non-academic carders list provided to schools by the Ministry, whereas, if there is additional staff, the ZonalDirector of Education shall be notified through the Divisional Director of Education. Proper placementof additional staff should be carried out by the Zonal Director of Education.VIII.If there is excess staff in schools, Provincial Secretary of Education and Provincial Director of Educationshall take disciplinary and legal action against the Principal of the relevant school, Divisional Director ofEducation and Zonal Director of Education against not taking action to balance such excess staff.IX.It shall be taken into account that retaining a teacher in a school without a proper timetable is a matterpunishable disciplinarily and legally.X.Teachers or Principals who should be deployed in academic affairs shall never be retained in Zonal andDivisional Education Offices and if retained so for some duty, formal written permission should be obtainedfrom the Provincial Secretary of Education for such retaining.XI.Addressing and assigning duties to the academic staff and non-academic staff both shall be done in amanner preserving their professional dignity.

39. Owing to whatever reason shall employees of the non-academic staff be attached to Zonal Education Offices or toany other offices.

40. Women employed in non-academic staff shall not be deployed in service in a manner contravening the women’srights.

41. Laboratory assistants of non-academic staff shall be deployed in the service in laboratories.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201718A

Form A

Transfer Application in the Teachers Service – North Central Province(To be Submitted such as inter provincial 05 copies, Inter zonal 3 copies, and 02 Zonal copies)

The Transfer Number

1. Full name :...............................................................................................................................

.................................................................................................................Thera/Mr./Mrs./Miss

2. The name appearing in the salary sheet :.......................................................Thera/Mr./Mrs./Miss

3. School and the address : …………………………………… Telephone Number …………………

4. Personal address..................................………………………………………………………………

............................................................Telephone Number …………………………………………

5. Category :.............................Subjects teachers :................................Gender :..................................

6. Education Division of the School :...................................................... District ...............................

7. The Divisional Secretariat Division the applicant residing.............................. District ...................

8. The province to which the transfer is asked for.............................present zone............................

9. Date of Birth :........................ Age up to 31.12.20.....................The date due to retire..................

10. Date of first appointment .................................... The district appointed ....................................

The relevant zone :.....................

11. The class and the grade to which the teacher attached (3-II/3-1/2-II/2-1/1 to be mentioned............

12. Education leave and no pay leave details

The study course/institute for whichfromtoComplete time of leave

the academic leave taken

Reasons for taking no pay leaveThe no pay leave taken within threeprevious immediate periodFirstSecondThird

(if there are more no pay leave to total number of days shall be indicated in column the totalperiod of leave)

13. The period of service bound to be completed at the first school according to the original letter ofappointment ................................other conditions of appointment................................................

14. Service schedule. The date of appointment to the present school...................................................The total period of service there .......................The period of service in the north central province

School and the addressDistrictZoneDivisionfromtoSchoolDifficultmarkscategoryallowancepaid

(Mention the categoriazation of the school relevant to presently adopted grading system, (very popular, popular, unpopular,difficult, very difficult) to be stated (5%, 10%, 15%)

For Office use

The totaL number ofmarks obtained by theteacher

.................................Your number in theprovincial zonal prioritylist

Your number in prioritylist

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

15. Civil status

Name of the spouseAddressAddress of theplace of service

16. Details about of children under 12 years of age:

NameAddressAgeSchool studying at

(Four certified copies of Birth Certificates shall be annexed)

17. If unmarried details of parents (Four certified copies of your birth certificate shall be annexed)

NameAddressDate of BirthAge to the date of31.12.20.......

18. Reason for applying for a transfer:(The marriage certificate if the reason is concerning the husband and wife a copy marriage certificate if regarding the children thecopy of birth certificate if concerning the parents a copy of your birth certificate shall be attached having certified for a truecopy. If transfer is asked on the grounds ill health of the teacher/mother/father/spouse and children notes of treatments shall beattached. Also attach a copy of the first appointment.

(If the given space is not adequate for you to mention information in detail, you may write it on a separate paper and annex withparagraph number included (This shall be certified by a relevant officer)

Now the transfers in the north central province are given under the provincial transfers policy. You are expected to hand overthe transfer applications to the principal on or before the due date. You are kindly informed that the late applications arerejected.

..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................The initial signature ofthe representatives whoinspected (mention theteachers union)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201720A

19. The province the transfer in asked forMention 05 schools according to the option in regular order :

SchoolAddressCategory ofDistrictEducation Zonethe school

Do you like to get the transfer to any other school in the division asked for if no vacancies exist in theschools expected ...........................

...........................................................DateSignature of the applicant.

The report of the principal to be filled according to the relevant circular

1-5approvedinter provincialapproved

6-11presentinter zonalpresent

12-13shortagewithin the zonesshortage

TotalSupernumeraryTotalSupernumerary

If the transfer of this teachers granted the vacancy being created in the schoolThe work could be covered by giving the transfer/couldn't cover. Only............................... teachers in thiscetegory could be released from this school.

...........................................................................................................................................................The above mentioned particulars are certified true. The transfer recommended/not recommended

.........................................................................................DateOfficial sealPrincipal

The recommendation of the zonal Education Director

The number of teachers in this category that should be in this zone..............................The presentnumber of teachers belonging to tis category...........................................The number of supernumerary teachers in this category............................ The number of teachers in thiscategory fallen in shortage...............................................The number of teachers in this category asked for transfers out of the zone to the last date of acceptingtransfer applications.......................................................................................Name of the subject clerk................................... Signature............................................The particulars provided by the teacher are proved according to his/her personal file, No. incorrectparticulars have been given and the information filled by the principal are true.

Transfer recommended/not recommended

Date.............................. Official seal................Signautre of the zonal Education Director........................

For Office useonly

Marks given forschools inaccordance withthe teachertransfers policy innorth centralprovince

Dimbulagala

Kabithigollawa

Zones andMadirigiriya andWillachchiyaeducation divisionsper year

Verydifficult6Difficult5 5

Other schools 4

Schools in otherarears per year

Very difficult6Difficult5 4

unpopular

Popular 2

Very popular

Period of Serviceper year1

Marriage 2

For a child under 7years of age 2

if the previousperiod of service inthe north and eastper year 1

If transfer is askedfor north or east itis granted out sideof the markssystem and alsothe period ofservice withoutprejudicing to theconditions of theletter ofappointment

Number of studentNumber of teachersin terms of thesubject of theapplicantGradeNumber ofclassesTotal number ofstudents

The number ofteachers applied forprincipalin this year

Total number ofteachers

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

The recommendation of the board of teachers transfers

Since the relevant marks obtained the transfer is approved/not approved/on humanitarian grounds/medicalgrounds/and the state of supernumerary.

The signature of the members, (Mention the teachers union)

1. ................................2................................3.......................................4. ................................5................................6.......................................7. ................................8................................9.......................................

Date...................................

............................................................................................................Official sealSignature of transfer board SecretarySignature of transfer board Chairman/Provincial Zonal Director

The recommendation of the Provincial Education Ministry Secretary (for inter provinces)

The transfer recommended/not recommended in terms of the recommendations of the board of teachertransfers

.............................................................................................................DateOfficial sealSignatre of the Provincial Education MinistrySecretary

The Provincial Public Service Commission (for inter Provinces)

Secretary

.............................Provincial Public Service Commission

It has been decided to release this teacher from North Central Province. As such please inform me whetherit is agreed to absorb him/her in to your provincial public service.

.............................................................................................................DateOfficial sealSecretary Public Service Commission

In releasing fromthe provinceexterior to themarks systemdepending on theperiod of servicethe applicant shallhave 10 yearsservice

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.201722A

Form BTransfer Information sheet – Ministry of Education, North Central Province

1.Name of the Teacher :—

2.Date of First Appointment :—

3.Teacher Category : ………………….....................…. Grade ………… Subject ………….. (ex : degree, 3-(i)a - Science)

4.Civil Status :

5.Name of the spouse and working place :—

6.Number of Children :—

7.School Serving :— Zone :— …………………..

8.Previous Service particular :—.........................

School ServedFrom ……. To …….

(1)…………………………..………………………..(2)…………………………..………………………..(3)…………………………..………………………..(4)…………………………..………………………..(5)…………………………..………………………..(6)…………………………..………………………..(7)…………………………..………………………..(8)…………………………..………………………..

9.The Province/zone/school to which the transfer is asked for :—

10.Reason for requesting for a transfer :—

11.The number of occasions emerged for applying for transfers :—

Date: ……………………Signature of the Teacher …………………………………….

The recommendation of the Principal

ApprovedPresentShortageSupernumerary

The total number of teachers relevantto the school

The total number of teacher relevantto the subject

The transfer is recommended/Not recommended

Date :.............................................Signature of the Principal and the official seal......................................................

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'21PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.09.2017

The recommendation of the Divisional Director :-

ApprovedPresentShortageSupernumerary

The total number of teachersto the division

Number of teachers relevantto the subject

The transfer is recommended/Not recommended.

Date :............................................. the signature of the Divisional Education Director and official seal ......................................

The recommendation of the Zonal Education Director :-

ApprovedPresentShortageSupernumerary

The number of teachers relevantto the zone

The number of teachers relevantto the subject

The transfer is recommended/Not recommended according to the above particulars.

Date :.............................................The Signature of the Zonal Education Director and the officialseal ..................................

The recommendation of the Principal of the school to which the transfer is asked for :-

ApprovedPresentShortageSupernumerary

The number of teachers relevantto the zone

The number of teachers relevantto the subject

It is recommended/Not recommended that there are vacancies for the relevant subject.

Date :.............................................Signature of the Principal and the official seal......................................................

The approval of the Provincial Education Secretary.

The transfer to the ........................................... school in .......................................... zone W. e. f. .................................../withimmediate effect is approved. The transfer .......................................... not approved.

Date :.............................................The Signature of the Provincial Education Director and officialseal ....................................................

10-43

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.