==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09

PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2118$47 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2019'04'09

No. 2118/47 - TUESDAY APRIL 09, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Charter (Amendment) for Uva Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority of No. 02 of 2019 of

Uva Provincial Council

The above Charter having passed by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic ofSri Lanka on 14th March, 2019 has been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on 27th of March, 2019 and is hereby published for the notification of the public.

R.A.H.A. SAMARASINGHE,

Secretary,Uva Provincial Council.Council Secretariat,Uva Provincial Council,King's Street, Badulla,01st of April, 2019.

Charter (Amendment) for Uva Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authority of No. 2 of 2019 of Uva Provincial

Council

A charter came into operation for amending the charter for Passenger Transport Service Authoriy of No. 01 of 2001.

Uva Provincial Council of Uva Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby enact this charter:

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4480 — 17 (04/2019)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09

PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20192 A

1. This charter shall be cited as the charter (amendment) for Road Passenger Transport Service Authority of

No. 2 of 2019 and it shall come into operation from the day it receives the approval of the Governor of UvaProvince.

2. The term ''Passenger Transport Service Authority'' in the preface of the charter for Passenger Transport

Service Authority of No. 01of 2001 of Uva Provincial Council herein after referred as the main charter shallbe hereby amended by substituting the term "Road Passenger Transport Service Authority."

3. Instead of the term ''establishing Passenger Transport Service Authority for Uva Province'' referred to in

part 1 of the main charter shall be replaced with the term '' establishing Road Passenger Transport ServiceAuthority for Uva Province'' and the said section is hereby amended.

4. Instead of the term ''Passenger Transport Service'' reffered in section 3 of the main charter shall be

replaced with the term '' Road Passenger Transport Service'' and the said section is hereby amended.

5. Instead of the terms referred in section 6 (a) of the main charter shall be replaced with the term ''of thirteen

members'' for ''of eleven members'' ; the term ''six members with official powers'' for ''five members withoffical powers'' ; the term ''seven appointed members'' for ''six appointed members''

6. Instead of the term ''Passenger Transport'' referred in section 6(b)(1)(2) of the main charter shall be

replaced with the term '' Transport'' and the said section is hereby amended.

7. Following sub section shall be included further to the sub section (6)(c)(5) of the main charter and it shall

come into force as sub section 6(c)(6) of the main charter.

''6 (c)(6) Motor Traffic Inspector''

8. Instead of the term ''three persons'' referred in the section 6 (e)(1) of the main charter shall be replaced with

the term ''two persons'' and the said sub section is hereby amended.

9. Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 6 (e) (3) of the main charter.

''Two persons from the root permit holders of Uva Provincial Transport Service Authority''

10.Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 6 (e) 4 (a) (i) of the main charter and

it shall come into force as sub section 6 (e) 4 (a) of the main charter. 6 (e) 4 (a) Regional officer of Sri LankaTransport Board

11.Instead of the term ''out of members of the Authority'' referred in the main charter shall be replaced with

the term ''out of the members of Director Board of the Authority'' and the said sub section is herebyamended.

12.Following new sub section shall be included further to the section 11 of the main charter and the said sub

section shall come into force as sub section 11 (a) of the main charter.''11 (a) term of the office of the appointed members shall be ended by not attending three times to theDirector Board meetings without prior informing.''

13.Following subsection shall be included by rescinding the sub section 19(a) of the main charter.

''Inspecting and surveying on the availability of a sufficient vehicle service with an acceptable level ofquality and setting the standards in relation to those services for fulfilling the passenger and goodstransport requirement within and in relation to Uva Province''

14.Following subsection shall be included by rescinding the sub section 19(c) of the main charter

''Making regulations in relation to issuing, renewing, amending and cancelling of permit or any otherauthority to a certain person or institution to deploy a vehicle for goods and passenger transport onseparate charges''.

Brief title anddate ofcommencement

Amending thepreface of themain charter

Amending thesection 6(a) ofthe main charter

Including thenew sub section11(a) of themain charter

Amending theheadline of thepart 1 of themain charter

Amending thesection 3 of themain charter

Amending thesection 6 (c) (1)(2) of the maincharterAmending thesection 6 (c) (6)of the maincharter

Amending thesection 6 (e) (1)of the maincharterAmending thesection 6 (e) 3 ofthe main charter

Amending thesection 6 (e) 4(a) (i) of themain charter

Accommodatingthe section 19(a) of the maincharter

Accommodatingthe section 19(c) of the maincharter

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09

PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

Amending theSection 19 (d) ofthe main charter

15.Instead of the term ''of sub section (3)'' referred in the sub section 19(d) of the main charter shall be

replaced with the term ''of sub section (c)'' and that section is hereby amended.

16.Instead of the term ''for passenger transport service permit holder'' referred to in the sub section 19 (e) of

the main charter shall be replaced with the term ''for road passenger transport authority service permitholder'' and that section in hereby amended.

17.Instead of the term ''for passenger transport service permits'' referred to in the sub section 19 (f) of the

main charter shall be replaced with the term ''for road passenger transport authority service permits''and that section is hereby amended.

18.Instead of the term ''a bus deploys for passenger transport service under the authority of passenger

transport service permit'' referred to the sub section 19 (g) of the main charter shall be replaced with theterm ''a vehicle deploys for road passenger transport service under the authority of road passengertransport service permit or a charter'' and that section is hereby amended.

19.Instead of the term ''the drivers and conductors of the buses deploy for passenger transport service

under the authority of passenger transport service permit'' referred to in the sub section 19 (h) of the maincharter shall be replaced with the term ''the drivers and conductors of the buses deploy for road passengertransport service under the authority of road passenger transport service permit or authority permit'' andthat section is hereby amended.

20.Instead of the term '' the passenger transport permit'' referred to in the sub section 19 (i) (j) of the main

charter shall be replaced with the term ''the road passenger transport service authority permit'' and thosesections are hereby amended.

21.Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 19 (k) of the main charter

Prescribing the reports that should be maintained or presented to the authority in relation to the personsto be deployed as the drivers, assistants and conductors of the buses set out for road passengertransport service, by a road passenger transport service permit holder issued under this charter andunder the authority of said permit and in relation to the time schedules of starting and finishing theservice of that person.

22.Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 19 (p) of the main charter and that

should come into force as the sub section 19(p) (i) and 19 (p) (ii) of the main charter.

19(l) (i) registering the road passenger transport service vehicles owners' unions, improving thecontribution, enacting the regulations and enacting the provisions for providing guidance and aids,supports, services and welfare facilities seemed to be required.

19 (l) (ii) establishing unions for controlling, formalizing and improving the quality of road passengertransport services, registering and enacting the regulations related to them and enacting provisions forproviding guidance and welfare facilities seemed to be required.

23.Instead of the term ''for the passenger transportation'' reffered to in the sub section 19 (q)(ii) of the main

charter shall be replaced with the term ''for the road passenger transport service'' and that section ishereby amended.

24.The sub section 19 (q) ii of the main charter hereby amended by including the following new sub section

further to it and it shall come into force as sub section 19 (q) iii of the main charter

19(q)iii - an arbitration board shall be established for resolving the conflicts happen in relation to the all

Amending theSection 19 (e) ofthe main charter

Amending theSection 19 (f) ofthe main charter

Amending theSection 19 (g) ofthe main charter

Amending theSection 19 (h) ofthe main charter

Amending thesection 19 (i) (j)of the maincharter

Accommodatingthe Section 19 (k)of the main charter

Accommodatingthe section 19 (p)of the main charter

Amending theSection 19 (q)(ii)of the main charter

Including theSection 19 (q) (iii)of the main charter

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09

PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20194 A

service providers, service receivers of every road passenger transport service, officers and servants ofthe authority.

25.Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 9(r) of the main charter and it shall

come into force as 19(r)(i) and 19(r)(ii) of the main charter.

19(r)(i) Making the regulations on,

01.Service rights02.Professional skills facilities and feasibility03.Disciplines and order that should obey while in service04.Uniforms, badges or symbols that should wear in service

in relation to the drivers, conductors and driving assistants employed in the passenger and goodstransport service vehicles.

19(r)(iii) Establishing , maintaining and developing a professional training institution by the authorityfor the drivers, conductor and driving assistants deploy in road passenger transport service.

26.The sub section 19(t) of the main charter hereby amended by including following new sub section further

to it and it shall come into force as sub section 19 (u) of the main charter.

Keeping a vehicle service station by the authority for the quality of the vehicles deploy in the roadpassenger transport service and maintaining, prescribing the charges for the service maintenance andmaking the regulations related to it.

27.Following section shall be included by rescinding the section 21 of the main charter.

Required carder shall be decided by the Director Board of the Transport Authority and the approval ofthe National Salaries and Carder Commission should be taken with the recommendation of the ChiefSecretary of Uva Provincial Council and with the recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministry incharge of Transport and with the agreement of the Minister in charge of Transport.

28.Instead of the term ''above paragraph 22'' referred to in the sub section 22(1) of the main charter shall be

replaced with the term ''above paragraph 21'' and that sub section is hereby amended.

29.Instead of the term ''he should liable to one of the punishments of a fine not more that Rs. 2000.00 or for

a imprisonment not more than one year'' referred to in the sub section 29 (a) of the main charter shallbe replaced with the term'' he should liable to punishment of a fine not more that Rs. 100000.00 or fora imprisonment not more than two years with light works ''and that section is hereby amended.

30.Instead of the term ''he should liable to one of the punishments of a fine not more that Rs. 2000.00 or for

a imprisonment not more than 12 months'' referred to in the sub section 29(a) of the main charter shall bereplaced with the term ''he should liable to one of the punishments of a fine not more that Rs. 100000.00or for a imprisonment not more than two years with light works'' and that section is hereby amended.

31.Section 32 of the main charter hereby removed and following new section shall be replaced instead of

that.Responsibility on general supervision on credits to the authority fund, paying from that and administratingthis money in proper way and accounting shall be assigned to the General Manager.

32.The section 33 of the main charter shall be replaced with the term '' formalizing road passenger transport

service'' for the term '' formalizing passenger transport service'' and the term ''bus stands and vehicleparks'' for the term ''bus stands''.

Accommodatingsub section 19(r)of the maincharter

Including new subsection 19 (t)ofthe main charter

Amending thesection 21of themain charter

Amending thesub section 22(1)of the main charter

Amending thesub section 29(a)of the maincharter

Amending thesub section 29(b)of the maincharter

Accommodatingsection 32 of themain charter

Amending thesub section 33 ofthe main charter

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09

PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

Accommodatingsection 36 of themain charter

Rescinding of thesection 37 of themain charterAccommodatingthe section 40 ofthe main charter.

Amending andaccommodatingthe section 45 ofthe main charter.

33.Section 36 of the main charter hereby removed and following new sub section shall be replaced instead of

that and those sub sections shall come into force as sub section 36(a) and 36(b) of the main charter.

36(a) monthly account statements shall be investigated by the internal audit branch and shall be sent tothe accounts unit of the authority before the end of the next month.

36(b) Annual account reports should be forwarded to the Auditor General before the 31st of the March ofthe coming year from the end of the financial year.

34.Section 37 of the main charter hereby rescinded.

35.Section 40 of the main charter hereby removed and following new sub section shall be replaced instead of

that.

''On the agreement of the Director Board of the Authority one or several accounts may be maintained ina Government bank''

36.Following sections under the interpretation 45 of the main charter shall be removed and following new

sections shall be added instead of that.

Instead of the term '' 'authority' 'provincial authority' means 'Uva provincial passenger transportauthority'" shall be replaced with the term'' means Uva Provincial Road Passenger Transport Authority''

Instead of the term '' 'Minister' means 'the Minister in charge of passenger transport service of Uvaprovincial Cabinet'' shall be replaced with the term "Minister" means "The Minister in charge of Transportservice of Uva Provincial Cabinet"

Instead of the term '' any name from 'permit' 'passenger service permit' 'passenger transport service permit''root permit' means the passenger service permit issued vesting the powers to deploy a bus in the root forpassenger transport indicated in the permit on several charges under this charter or another written law''shall be replaced with the term '' means the road passenger transport service permit issued vesting thepowers to deploy a vehicle in the root for passenger or goods transport indicated in the permit on severalcharges under the main charter or this charter or another written law.''

''Transport permit'' means the written permission given for passenger/goods or other transport in UvaProvince.

''Passengers'' means the passengers transported by charging a fee from buses, three wheelers, gardenvehicles, office services, garment services, school services and other vehicles.

'' Goods'' means all the non passenger goods which transported on fees and rental basis.

37.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil or English texts of this charter, the Sinhala

text shall prevails.

04 - 895

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.