==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.20161A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 1951$27 – 2016 ckjdrs 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2016'01'28No. 1951/ 27 – THURSDAY, JANUARY 28, 2016

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. : CI/ 1789.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Housing Development Finance Corporation Bank of Sri Lanka, Sir Chiththampalam AGardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02 of the one part and The Ceylon Bank Employees'Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other parton 07th day of October 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the LegislativeEnactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)

M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.19th January, 2016.

Collective Agreement No. 28 of 2015

Collective Agreement

between

HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION BANK OF SRI LANKA, of Sir Chiththampalam A Gardiner Mawatha,Colombo 02, of the one part

AND

CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part

1A - G022940 - 16 (2016/ 01)

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT is made on this 07th day of October 2015, by and between the HDFC Bank of the one part, (hereinafterreferred to as “the Bank”) and the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union of the other part (hereinafter referred to as "the Union").

The HDFC Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union hereby agree as follows :

Title : This Agreement will be known and referred to as Collective Agreement of “HOUSING DEVELOPMENT FINANCECORPORATION BANK with THE CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES' UNION FOR THE PERIOD COMMENCING FROM FIRSTJANUARY, TWO THOUSAND and FIFTEEN TO THIRTY FIRST DAY OF DECEMBER, TWO THOUSAND and SEVENTEEN(01.01.2015 - 31.12.2017)’’.

1. Employer to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind the HDFC Bank, which is a party to this Agreement.

2. Employees to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind mambers of the Ceylon Bank Employees' Union inemployment wih the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories of whom a salary scale has been prescribed in this Agreement in theAnnexure attached hereto.

3. Date of Operation and Duration – This Agreement shall deem to be in force from the First day of January Two Thousand andFifteen (1st January, 2015) and thereafter continue to be in force, unless it is determined by either party giving six months (6) notice in writingto the other, provided however, that no party shall give such notice to the other party before the 1st day of July, 2017 and such notice shall notexpire before the 31st day of December 2017.

4. Matters Covered and Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits. –

(a)This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the Unionin relation to the period commencing from 2015 to 2017 and in respect of which negotiations took place between the partiesbefore the conclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreementraise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement other than thematters relating to non salary benefits which shall be discussed by the Management of Bank with the Ceylon Bank Employees'Union and reach finality on or before 31st January, 2016. After an agreement has been arrived at, as regards non-salarybenefits, the terms and conditions of same shall be annexed to this agreement, which shall form an integral part thereof.

(b)The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or anyof the terms and conditions of employment or benefits applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than bymutual agreement with the Bank.

5. Salary Components. – As from 01.01.2015 each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be paid upon and subjectto the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary which comprises the following componenets.

5.1 Fixed Component.– The fixed Component comprises the following items :

(i)Revised basic salary as set out in the annexure hereto. (Increments will be granted continuously notwithstanding themaximum point given in the salary scales).

(ii)Allowances

(a) In addition to the basic salary, the following allowances will be paid, effective from 01.01.2015;

(i)Cost of Living Allowance based on the CCPI varying in the particular month.(ii)Rent Allowance as per item (b) below.(iii) 10% on the aggregate of the Basic salary + Rent Allowance + Cost of Living Allowance.

(b) The rent allowance will be 20% of the Basic Salary.

5.2Variable Component.- Basis of determination of variable component shall be determined in the course of time.

6. Taxes on Emoluments.– PAYEE tax on emoluments of staff shall be borne by the Bank. (Except for the employees where theirletter of employment state otherwise)

7. Conversion of the Basic Salary.–

(a)The basic salaries of all employees will be converted to the revised scale by applying the step for step (point by point) methodof conversion.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.20163A

e.g. An employee who had been on the 5 th step of the scale as at 31.12.2014 will be placed on the 5 th step of the relevant revisedscale with effect from 01.01.2015.

(b)Non-Banking Stream personnel shall also be placed at the appropriate revised salary scale, on the same basis.

8. Conversion Anomalies.- The HDFC Bank and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union jointly agree to execute the Collective Agreementfor the year 2015-2017 subject to the rectifying of possible anomalies associated with calculation of increments in the salary scales as correctedby other three government Banks (Bank of Ceylon, Peoples Bank and National Savings Bank) that would arise subsequently to this revision.

Any anonalies that would arise consequent to this revision shall also be examined by a Committee comprising of representative of theHDFC Bank and the Union and will be rectified suitably.

9. Interim Allowance.- Necessary adjustments as per the Grades will be made to recover the overpayment of the interim allowance madeto the staff members according to the MOU dated 23rd March, 2015, within a period of 28 months.

10. Other Commitments.– The Union further agrees to assist, and support the Management of the Bank in every manner to obtain themaximum contribution of its members to achieve the targets set out in the Business Plan / Startegic Plan of the Bank.

11.Where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an employee covered and bound by this agreement and any existingconcessions extended to the members of the Union are more favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this agreement, thennothing in this agreement shall in any way affect or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employment and such concessions shallcontinue to exist, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.

12.Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled to, or becomes entitled on or after that date under or by virtueof any law, contract agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable than those to which he / she would be entitledunder this agreement, nothing in this agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorize or permit the Bank to withhold, restrict orterminate such right or privilege.

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

02 - 360

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.20165A

My No. : CI/ 1786.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

The Collective Agreement entered into between The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, No. 24, Sir Baron JayatilakaMawatha, Colombo 01 of the one part and The Ceylon Bank Employees' Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 9thday of October 2015 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments ofCeylon (Revised Edition 1956).

M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.19th January, 2016.

Collective Agreement No. 26 of 2015

Table of Contents:

01.Parties to be Covered and Bound0602.Date of Operation and Duration0603.Earlier Agreements0704.Matters Covered and Bound0705.Salary Ranges0706.Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Ranges0707.Allowances07(a) Cost of Living Allowance07(b) Disturbance Allowance0708.Annual Salary Increments0809.Pension Payments To Employees Who Have Retired From Service0810.Promotions from Non - Clerical (Minor Staff) to Clerical Grade0811.Provident Fund08(a) Rate of Contribution08(b) Interest on Provident Fund Contribution held by the Bank09(c) Deficiency in Bank's Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension0912.Terminal Benefits09(a) Pensions09(b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds/disability09(c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights09(d) Death Gratuity10(e) Gratuity on Resignation/Termination Prior to Retirement10(f) Completed Years of Service10(g) Commuted Pension1013.Medical Scheme10(i)Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non-Hospitalisation Expenses10(ii)Special Non - Hospitalization and Non - Surgical Expenses10(iii)Spectacle/Denture/Hearing Aid Claim11(iv)Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure11

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

(v)Extended coverage of Surgical and Hospitalization expenses11(vi)Maternity Cover11

14.Retirement1115.Bonus1216.Probation1217.Concesssions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors1218.Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch1219.Overtime1220.Annual, Medical and Casual Leave12(a)Annual Leave12(b)Medical Leave13(c)Casual Leave1421.Suspension1422.Disciplinary Procedure1423.Technology1624.Trade Union Action16(a)Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement16(b)Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement1625.Union Check-off Facilities1626.Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement1627.Consequences of Termination of Agreement1728.Definitions17The First Schedule17The Second Schedule18The Third Schedule19

THIS Collective Agreement made this 9th day of October 2015 between the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, a Bankduly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 24, Sir Baron Jayatilaka Mawatha, Colombo 1 (hereinafter referred to as “theBank”)

of the One Part

and

The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 20, Temple Road,Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)

of the Other Part

WHEREAS the Union made demands for re-negotiation of the Collective Agreement of 2012 which came into effect on 1st April,2012 and subsequent to negotiations between the Bank and the Union, agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for thepurpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining anefficient and productive working environment, the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder :

1. Parties to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking CorporationLimited (the Bank), The Ceylon Bank Employees Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on monthly contracts of employ-ment by the Bank and who are employed in any of the categories as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom salary ranges have beenprescribed in this agreement in the First Schedules hereto (hereinafter referred to as the employees). This Agreement shall not cover and bindany employee who is a Supervisor, Staff Officer, Secretary, Executive and any other Staff on special rates of pay.

2. Date of Operation and Duration. – This Agreement shall come into force on 1st March 2015 and shall continue until either partyterminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 28th February 2018. TheUnion shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective Agreement at any time on or after 1st March 2017.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.20167A

3. Earlier Agreements. – This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties heretoand such earlier Agreements shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.

4. Matters Covered and Bound. –

(a)This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the Unionand in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of this Agreement and the Unionagrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were discussed andnegotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed.

(b)The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or anyof the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement otherthan by mutual agreement with the Bank.

5. Salary Ranges. – Every employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of signing this Agreement shall, from the 1stMarch 2015 be placed on the basic salary range set out in the First Schedule hereto,

6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Ranges. – For the placement of an employee on the basic salary range applicablein the First Schedule, the following provisions shall apply.

All employees in service as at 28th February 2015, will receive the following increases;

(i)A sum equivalent to 12% of gross salary payable to an employee as at 28th February 2015 will be added to the basic salaryeffective from 1st March 2015,

(ii)A Further sum equivalent to 10% of gross salary payable to an employee as at 28th February 2015 will be added to the basicsalary effective from 1st March 2016.

(iii)A sum further equivalent to 10% of gross salary payable to an employee as at 28th February 2015 will be added to the basicsalary effective from 1st March 2017,

All employees joining after 28th February 2015, will be placed on the starting salary of Rs. 20,000/ -. Upon completion oftwo (2) years service, such employees shall be granted a 22% increase in their basic salary calculated on the basis of22% x (17,000 basic + 20,000 COLA as at 28th February 2015).

7.Allowances. –

(a)COST OF LIVING ALLOWANCE (COLA) .–

Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of living allowance for the duration ofthe Collective Agreement.

(a)LKR 22,000/- with effect from 01.03.2015;(b)LKR 23,500/- with effect from 01.03.2016;(c)LKR 25,000/- with effect from 01.03.2017;

Provided however, in the event of the Department of Census & Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to the rateof payment in relation to the Colombo Consumer's Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base year 2006/2007) andif your union makes a request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the Bank would be open todo so.

b)DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCEWith effect from 1st March 2015 an employee called upon to report for work before 7.00 a.m. shall continueto receive LKR 550/= per day, and if required to report before 6.00 a.m. shall continue to receive LKR 800=per day.

8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

8.Annual Salary Increments.– With effect from 1st March 2015, the annual increments awarded to employees covered and boundby this Agreement will be based on the employee’s performance during the previous Calendar year.

The performance of the employees will be assessed in terms of the performance Assessment Review and in terms of same, thegranting of annual increments will be based on the ratings and the corresponding amounts of increments as follows :

RatingsAnnual Increments for 2016, 2017 and 2018Top PerformerLKR 3500 / =Strong PerformerLKR 2500 / =Good PerformerLKR 1500 / =Inconsistent PerformerLKR 250 / =

In terms of the above ratings, a minimum annual increment of LKR 250/ = (except in cases where disciplinary action is being taken)will be payable during the period of this Agreement.

9.Pension Payments To Employees Who Have Retired From Service.– Any employee who has retired from service between 1 stMarch 2015 and the date hereof shall be entitled to have his pension calculated on the basis of the salary in terms of clause 6 (i) hereof.

10. Promotions from Support Staff to Banking Assistant Grade.– Without prejudice to the right of the Bank to recruit staff at theirdiscretion, the Bank will consider the above promotions subject to the following criteria :

(i)The number of vacancies in the clerical cadre will be announced internally by advertisement by Staff Notice annually. Suchnotice shall stipulate the job requirements of the vacancy advertised, ie. Educational qualifications, age, and any otherparticular criteria required for such job as determined by the Bank.

(ii)Any such employee in the non-clerical grade whose record of service, conduct and attendance has been satisfactory, withmore than four years of service with the Bank who has necessarily completed the first part of the chartered Institute ofBankers (London) or Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka will be eligible to apply and will be considered for such clericalposition. The selection process will include, interview, written tests etc, as determined by the Bank.

(iii) Any Support Staff whose record of service and conduct has been satisfactory with more than eight years’ service with theBank, shall be exempt from the minimum education qualifications stipulated in the Notice and may apply for such vacancyand will be considered in the manner specified at Para (ii) above.

(iv) Any such employee promoted in the manner specified above will be required to serve a period of probation of twelvemonths which may be extended by the Bank for a further period of up to six months during which, or at the end of which,the Bank may at their discretion revert such employee to this earlier position and salary.

(v)The basic salary to any such employee promoted in the manner - specified above shall be in the Clerical Salary range whichwill be not less than his current salary Any non-clerical employee who conforms to the above requirements shall bepromoted, if there are vacancies.

(vi) The decision of the Bank in respect of selection for promotion shall be final and conclusive.

11.Provident Fund.–

(a)RATE OF CONTRIBUTION. - The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank shall be :

Bank’s contribution-12% (twelve per cent) of salaryEmployee’s contribution-8% (eight per cent) of salary

Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount paid for thatmonth as cost of living allowance subject to the Rules of he Provident Fund.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.20169A

(b)INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTION HELD BY THE BANK.– Where Provident Fund monies are in-vested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid of 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum ofLKR. 100,000/= published in the N.S.B prevailing as at the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailingon the 1st July for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.

(c)DEFICIENCY IN BANK’S CONTRIBUTIONS TO PROVIDENT FUND TO AN EMPLOYEE NOT ENTITLED TO APENSION .– Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank in circumstances which do not entitle him to apension or payment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference between theBank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate of contribution hewould have been entitled to, in terms of the Employee’s Provident Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as acontribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf of such employee. Such deficiency will be the difference between thefollowing minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Banks up to 31stMarch 1992.

From 1.1.71 to 31.12.80- 9% of gross salaryFrom 1.1.81 onwards-12% of gross salary

Prior to 31.12.70 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary), which was less than10% of basic salary, and therefore no deficiency arises.

12. Terminal Benefits. – It is agreed by parties that with effect from the date of signing this agreement the pension schemesapplicable to employees covered and bound shall be applied as follows :

In the case of those in employment at the time of signing this collective agreement the Bank shall offer such employees a 'one time'option of changing over from the existing Defind 'Benefit Scheme' to the new 'Defined Contribution Scheme'. The frozen amount at the 'switchover' will be kept as a credit to the staff member until cessation of employment.

1. Defined Benefit Scheme : Employees in employment at the time of signing this collective agreement and who opt toremain in the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme will continue to be governed as follows,

(a)PENSION.– An employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his employment shall, upon reaching the retirement ageof the Bank and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10years of actual continuous service (excluding absence / leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on thefollowing basis :

No. of completed yearsMonthly salaryService (max. 35 years) plus 5 xpayable in the monthRetirement age of the Bankof retirement + COLA

(b)PREMATURE RETIREMENT ON MEDICAL GROUNDS / DISABILITY.– An employee who is found to be unable tocontinue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/ disability, as certified by the Bank/s Doctor/ Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completednot less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pensioncomputed on the same basis referred to at clause 12 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled tocompensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitledto a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whosepremature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre - acceptance ofpension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensationunder any written law.

(c)LUMP SUM GRATUITY IN LIEU OF PENSION RIGHTS.– An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in terms of(a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any otherpayments arising there from. The payment will be computed on the following basis :

No. of completed years1 Month’s Basic salary plusService (max. 35 years) plus 5 x1 month’s Cost of Living Allowance calculated for the month of retirement.

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of thecessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency, if any, in the Bank’s contribution to Provident Fund toan employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 12.

(d)DEATH GRATUITY .– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of theBank, the Bank will make a compassionate payment of one and half month’s gross salary for each year of completed servicesubject to a minimum of nine month’s gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may bedetermined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of anemployee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employeeprovided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, thegratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the lastdrawn salary plus Cost of Living Allowance.

Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall be entitledto receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under any laws in force at the timeon account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. Providedfurther that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity asprovided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due tothem under any written law.

(e)GRATUITY ON RESIGNATION/ TERMINATION PRIOR TO RETIREMENT.– An employee shall, upon resignation/termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred toat the aformentioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) be entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act(1983), which shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment. The salary for this purpose shall comprise thesalary referred to at Clause 5 and the Cost of Living Allowance referred to at Clause 7 (a) hereof.

(f)Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/ leave withoutpay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 15 thereof.

(g)COMMUTED PENSION.–

(i) At the option of the employee at the time of retirement on or after 1st April 2000, 25% of the monthly pension into 120will be paid to employees who are entitled to a pension, who do not opt for a lump sum payment as provided for in theagreement and who opt for such commuted pension.

(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable to him duringthe first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have been entitled to at the time ofretirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the said ten years the amount of the monthlypension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly pension then being paid.

2.Defined Contribution.- Employees recruited after the 24th of May 2012 and who are covered and bound shall only be eligible forthe HSBC Defined Contribution Pension Scheme (Subject to regulatory Approval) in relation to which the Bank shall contribute10% of the Gross salary.

13.Medical Scheme. –

(i) REIMBURSEMENT OF MEDICAL EXPENSES FOR NON-HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES.–The Bank will make available for an employee to reimburse up to a value of Rs.75,000.00 per calendar year effective from1st January 2015 as medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf of his spouse or unmarried legitimatechildren under the age of 18 in respect of below:

LKR 25,000 - for routine non - hospitalization/non surgical expensesLKR 25,000 - for any medical testing recommended by an authorised physicianLKR 25,000 - for claims related to Spectacles/ Dentures/ Hearing aids

(ii) MEDICAL BILLS AND TESTING.–Out of the above Rs. 75,000.00 the Bank will make available for an employee to reimburse up to a value of Rs. 50,000.00per calendar year effective from 1st January 2015 as medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf ofhis spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18 as per the above.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.201611A

All claims need to be supported with valid prescriptions, bills and receipts that are dated within 3 months at the time ofreimbursement.

A copy of the prescription is mandatory for any item on the bill that exceeds LKR 2500.00.

A copy of the prescription needs to be provided for any pharmaceutical drugs that require a doctor's prescription forpurchase.

Items excluded under this scheme are specified below:

* Dental: Dentures, Braces, Cappings. (consultation, filling and tooth extraction are reimbursed)* Optical : Spectacles, Contact lenses, etc. (only the consultation is reimbursed)* Treatment of cosmetic nature, any tablet, cream related to cosmetic nature* Medical expenditure incurred outside SriLanka* Food items (example : Sustergen, Diet milk etc.)* Medical equipment related (example : Thermometer/ guards/ syringes, etc.)* Fertility related tests and drugs (only the consultation is reimbursed)* Ayurvedic : Any claim for ayurvedic treatments and / or medicines will be accommodated in an exceptional basis takingthe ailment into consideration* Physiotherapy : Any claims related to physiotherapy treatment to be provide with a doctor prescription.

(iii) SPECTACLES/DENTURES/HEARING AID CLAIM.–

The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of LKR 25,000/- duringthe three year period on account of Spectacles/Dentures/Hearing Aids.

All claims shall be supporteed by valid and relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts subject to the provision that no claim ismade in relation to any particular item more than once a year, and in the case of spectacles it must be supported by aprescription from a Medical Eye Specialist.

Spectacles : In the case of an employee is advised by a Medical Eye Specialist to change the lenses, the bank will reimburseclaims relating expenses incurred in lieu of purchase of optical lenses if there is any remaining balance.

Dentures : Cappings, braces and any such items are excluded.

(iv) SURGICAL AND HOSPITALISATION EXPENDITURE .–

Employees will continue to be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private)expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, spouse and unmarried legitimate children under 18 years of age subject to theproduction of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up to LKR 130,000/- per annum.

(v)EXTENDED COVERAGE OF SURGICAL AND HOSPITALIZATION EXPENSES IN EXCEPTIONAL CIR-CUMSTANCES.-

In addition to the surgical and hospitalization cover specified in 13 (iii) above, the Bank will consider requests forreimbursement of additional costs incurred on account of hospitalization up to an annual limit of LKR 100,000/ - underexceptional circumstances.

The Second Shedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursment of medical expenditure will be effected.

(vi)MATERNITY COVER. -

Normal child birth will be covered under the Surgical and Hospitalization limits as given in 13 (iii) above.

14.Retirement.–

(a)The age of retirement shall be 55 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its employees, and onreaching the age of 55, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employedby the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

(b)An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and has 10 or moreyears of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, such employee Union and the employer that he shouldbe given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shallnot constitute an industrial dispute.

15.Bonus.–

(i)GUARANTEED BONUS.-

Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year pay to every employeecovered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month of December in respectof one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less than one year at the rate ofone-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. The salary for this purpose shall include the costof living allowance payable for that month.

(ii)DISCRETIONARY PERFORMANCE BONUS.-

In addition to the above, the Bank reserves the right to introduce a discretionary variable performance bonus scheme for 1,2 and3 rated performers to further recognize their contribution to the Bank.

The scheme details to be shared with the union prior to such implementation.

16.Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of nine months probation subject to the right of the Bankto extend the period of probation by a period of three months.

17.Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councillors.–

(a)The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than four Branch Union Office Bearers at any one givenoccasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at inquiries before theLabour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with their respective Bank Managements -exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.

(b)It is agreed that Central committee members(General Council) of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.30 p.m. on 12days in a year for meetings. In the case of outstation General Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the wholeday for 12 General Council Meetings in a year.

(c)It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councillors to attend Parent UnionGeneral Council meetings.

(d)It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of theUnion. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.

18.Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branch.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leaveto visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total numberof days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than 30 miles from Colombo.

19. Overtime.–(a)If required by his employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the employer,subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force.

(b)Overtime work shall be remunerated in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees Act.

20. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave. –

(a)ANNUAL LEAVE.–

(i) ENTITLEMENT.– In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) duringwhich an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 working

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.201613A

days paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive days and shall in respect ofeach year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.

(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :

(a)The full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 1st April.(b)A holiday of 15 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.(c)A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, and(d)A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.

(iii) AVAILMENT.– The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorisation of the Bank upon the employee’sapplication, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.

(iv) ACCUMULATION.– Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes:

(a)For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.(b)For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.(c)For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.(d)For marriage of the employee(e)Prolonged illness of the employee(f)For purpose of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.

Provided that in the case of (b) and (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management. Family memberfor purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children and parents.

Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted up to a maximum of seven (7) days per year and provided further thatsuch total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of ninety (90) days.

(b) MEDICAL LEAVE. –

(i)ENTITLEMENT – An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly orother holidays in any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.

(ii)AVAILMENT– The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness notsupported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.

(a)Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays; or

(b)Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a MedicalPractitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days.

(iii)ACCUMULATION .– An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall beentitled to avail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to thefollowing provisions ;

(a) In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety (90)days; and

(b) The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization or similarcircumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner

(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as aninfectious disease or prolonged hospitalizations, the employer may permit him to set off any further absence ongrounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such earlierprolonged illness.

(iv)The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / or take any actionas appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a Certificate from a RegisteredMedical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

(a)Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and / or reason for absence ofan employee, or

(b)Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly orother holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and /or reason forabsence of the employee.

(c)CASUAL LEAVE.– An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year ofemployment where of not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precedeor follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for suchabsence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseen by suchemployee.

21. Suspension. –

(i)Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, such employee will, subject to theprovisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and fullpay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.

(ii)Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such a fraud or misappropriation, theemployee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded within sixmonths of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) duringhis suspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’sown conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold orconclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.

(iii)In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding the inquirywithin six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the employee makes repeatedrequests for postponements or where he is remanded or in police custody or where the matter is under investigation by thePolice, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.

22.Disciplinary Procedure. – Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the caseof oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply ;

(a)Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show cause letter whichshall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter shall give the employee not lessthan ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing to the charges preferred.

(b)Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the Bank hisexplantion to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the employee may requestthe Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and where such request is made, the Bankshall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circumtances.

(c)If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause and the Bankis satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdrow the charge/s against the employee and if the employee is undersuspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements inrespect of the period of such suspension.

(d)Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not satisfied withsuch explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the charges against suchemployee.

(e)The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the date of receiptby them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank’scontrol, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.

(f)The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused employee oran office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent the

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.201615A

person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) or a central Committee member of the Union employed in the bankto defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absencefrom work on this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiryas an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing thename of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement ofthe inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee and cross examinewitnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a Defending Employee or Observer who obstructsthe inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defending Employee or Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.The absence of a Defending Employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shallnot vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled toparticipate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the inquiring Officer may ask him at this descretion.

(g)The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and the accusedemployee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and a copy issued to the accusedemployee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the InquiringOfficer.

(h)The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as well.

(i)Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing, of thefindings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the employer.

(j)Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days except forreasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee shall not be punishedthereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.

(k)Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the followingcircumstances :

(i)where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in whichevent the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to show.

(ii)where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.

(iii)where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the employerthereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21) workingdays after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

(l)The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bank,the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which theBank had notified such employee of the finds or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such finds and / or punishment.

(m)Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –

(i)the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall takes effect as fromthe date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that the Bank shall not be entitledto recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period ofsuspension, if any such payment has been made.

(ii)the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall bepaid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to imposesuch other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of suspensionpending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.

(n)The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view of thefact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for investigationor inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.

(o)The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this Agreement.

16AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

23.Technology.–

(i)The Third Schedule hereto contains matters relating to new Computer based banking technology agreed upon between theparties.

(ii)The Bank will furnish the Union on request information relating to new computer hardware to be introduced by the Bank,i.e., published manufacturer’s specifications relating to equipment. The Bank will be under no obligation to provideinformation relating to software.

(iii)The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new computer based bankingtechnology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.

(iv)Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters relatingto computer based banking technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any representations/ disputein that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.

(v)It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred to theMonitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the Monitoring Committee notbeing able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the LabourDepartment and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changesare necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank to implement such changes.

24.Trade Union Action.–

(a)MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT :The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during thecontinuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any disputerelated to this Agreement.

(b)MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT :The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during thecontinuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute thatmay arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –

(i)The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank,at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the Parent Union(the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)

(ii)The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms ofconciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.

(iii)In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice inwriting of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute andthat it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation ofCeylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.

25.Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty(40) per cent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however, thatthe Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provisions of thisCollective Agreement in relation to the Bank.

26.Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner inwhich the Collective Agreement is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technologychange such matters shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.201617A

two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may request that the matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee bycommunication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.

Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of the IndustrialDisputes Act, 1950.

27.Consequences of Termination of Agreement.–

On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or itsmembers shall ipso facto cease.

28.Definitions.–

In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings.

BankThe Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.

Basic SalaryMonthly Salary paid excluding COLA

Employeean employee covered and bound by this Agreement.

EmployerThe Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.

Cost of Living Allowancethe payment in lieu of the Cost of Living Allowance stipulated in the manner set out inClause 7 (a) hereof.

Parent UnionThe Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union

Branch UnionThe Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at The Hongkong andShanghai Banking Corporation Limited.

DisputeA dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the IndustrialDisputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the BranchUnion of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union.

SalaryShall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.

Words indicating the masculine gender shall include the feminine and words indicating the singular number shall include the plural and viceversa.

THE FIRST SCHEDULE

Basic Salary Ranges

BANKING ASSISTANT

LKR 20,000/- to LKR 86,595/- Annual increments in accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.

Support Staff Salary Ranges

LKR 15,000 / = to LKR 85,662 / =

Annual increments in accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.

18AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT - 2015

THE SECOND SCHEDULE

1.The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement.It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to be included in thisScheme. No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.

2.Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalisation involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.

3.The Bank must be notified promptly and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to hospital.

4.The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the employee shall berequired to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms) and submit documentationrequired by Bank/ Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the InsuranceCompanies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time to time the documentary requirements and time limitswithin which documents should be submitted. Where an employee does not comply, such employee will not be entitled tobenefits under this Scheme.

5.Employees shall uphold the principle of uberrima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this Scheme andany deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any benefit under this Scheme. In addition, the employee will beliable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.

6. (a)The Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes, expensesincurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the Scheme. Additions and / or deletions to this list will also bemade by internal circular.

(b)If the reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the Institutions givenin the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of amendments to the list referredto in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named Institution(s) and the Bank shall considersuch application on a case by case basis and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, providedhowever, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.

7.Exclusions .–

The Scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :

(a)Arising from an injury sustained or a sickness contracted outside Sri Lanka or for treatment outside Sri Lanka.

(b)Occasioned by or happening through,

(i) The participation by the employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, Hostilities(whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military,Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence Force, Police, Security Force, Home Guard etc.

(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, Veneral Disease, Insanity and illnesses resulting from Acquired Immune DeficiencySyndrome.

(iii) Normal childbirth or pregnancy subject to clause 13 (iv). Provided that if an employee has been employed for acontinuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred for any abnormality of maternitywhich is in excess of what a normal childbirth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank with therequired proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who makesthe claim.

(iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.201619A

(c)Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type of civilaircraft operated by a recognized airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil aircraft having twoor more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or Industrial firm and pilotedby a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.

(d)In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.

(e)Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.

8.The benefits under this Scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Years” in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement shallbe deemed to be the period 01st January to 31st December. In the case of employees who join during the course of a year theoverall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the number of full months ofservice up to 31st December.

9.In respect of claims for hospitalisation which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the entitlement of eitheror both years, subject, however, to the event limit specified in Clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement.

THE THIRD SCHEDULE

The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computed Based Banking Technology by the Bankcovered and bound by this Agreement.

1.Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix of VDU/ non VDU tasks which seekto provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.

2.The workload of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper safety andeffectiveness of the operation.

3.The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with adequate training within the parameters of their job description to ensure thesafety and health of employees.

4.(a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain equipment, which will ensure the following :

(i)Screens that give clear stable images.

(ii)Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.

(iii)Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.

(b)The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.

The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents andancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.

The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting facilities to minimise visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.

Employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU, will bepermitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to hiscommencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the Optician, the employee shouldinform the Bank immediately.

Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU,and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the first time, he will be permitted, at theexpenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as towhether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and modification to the lenses if necessary,will be borne by the Bank on the following basis:

20AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.2016

(i)The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Assistance Schemeherein.

(ii)The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost should exceedthe limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.

5.Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Bank isagreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no disruptionof the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.

6.The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of theBank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations as to whether the main or primaryfunction is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute being raised on this issue.

7.The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence of theintroduction of new computer based banking technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or more of the followingoptions:

(a)The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform work which is withintheir skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to suchemployees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would under normalcircumstances be entitled to effect.

(b)The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the Bank consider it necessary.

(c)The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this Agreement,with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to retrenchmentwithin the meaning of this schedule.

8.For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant conse-quent upon the introduction of new computer based banking technology. It will not include a situation where such redundantemployees voluntarily leave the service of the employers on terms mutually agreed upon.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2016'01'28PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.01.201621A

In witness hereof the said parties have set their hands hereunto on this 19th day of October 2015 at Colombo.

02 - 361

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA