==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

w;s úfYI

wxl 2035$15 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 06 jeks nodod - 2017'09'06No. 2035/15 - WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 06, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A—G 26200- 14 (09/2017)

My No.: id'.s$j;=$03$2017

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers’Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriyaof the one part and The Ceylon Estate Staffs’ Union,No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rdday of March 2017 regarding the Supervisory Staff is herebypublished in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial DisputesAct, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon(Revised Edition 1956)

A. WIMALAWEERA,Acting Commissioner General of Labour,

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,25th August, 2017.

Collective Agreement No. 18 of 2017

Collective Agreement – Supervisory Staff

This Collective Agreement entered into between TheEmployers’ Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road,Rajagiriya of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs’Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, Second Part, Madeand entered into on the Twenty third day of March TwoThousand seventeen witnesseth as follows:-

1.Title

This Agreement shall be known as the PlantationsSupervisory Staff Collective Agreement.

2.Employers Covered and Bound

This Agreement shall bind the members of theEmployers’ Federation of Ceylon, whose names arecontained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referredto as the Employers or Employer, as the case may beaccording to context, for and in respect of thecategories of employees hereinafter described inClause 3 hereof.

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

3.Union and Employees Covered and Bound

This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaidTrade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, andmembers of the said Union who are employed by themembers of the Federation referred to in Schedule Ion monthly contracts of Employment and in respectof whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule IIhereon.

4.Earlier Agreements

The Provisions of this Agreement shall supersede andreplace any earlier Agreements in respect of thesecategories and shall be deemed conclusive in relationto all terms and conditions. In the event of there beingany dispute with regard to the existence of any otherterm or condition not contained herein, the same shallbe resolved by reference to the ‘disputes committee’to be formed under the provisions of this agreementand thereafter Commissioner General of Labour interms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter isnot resolved before the ‘disputes committee’ but theparty of the Second Part shall not be entitled to taketrade union action on the basis of the existence of anysuch alleged term or condition.

5.Date of Operation and Duration

Subject to any provisions to the contrary, thisAgreement shall be effective from 1st October 2016and shall thereafter continue in force unlessterminated by either party giving notice of terminationin terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, subject to thecondition that no party shall give notice to the otherbefore 30th September 2019.

6.General Terms and Conditions

i.The revised terms and conditions relating to thisAgreement shall only come into force on the1st March 2017 and shall be deemed to beincluded in all contracts of employment of thosecovered by this Agreement with effect from thesaid date. Accordingly no arrears shall be due inrespect of any payment whatsoever relating tosuch revised terms for the period 1st October2016 up to 28th February 2017.

ii.Grading of employees covered shall be at thediscretion of the Employer.

iii.Upon completion of 10 years satisfactoryservice under the same employer, JuniorAssistant Field Officer shall be re-designatedas Assistant Field Officer.

7.Probation

On recruitment every employee shall serve a periodof probation of not more than six months, subject tothe right of the Employer to extend the probationaryperiod for a further period of three months at hisdiscretion for reasons of unsatisfactory performance,misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmationshall be by letter. However, in the event of theprobationary period not being extended after the periodof 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to beconfirmed notwithstanding there being no letter ofconfirmation. During the period of probation orextended probation the Employer shall have the rightto terminate without notice or assigning reasontherefore.

8.First Appointment

No person will be recruited to a grade covered by thisAgreement unless he has successfully completed theG.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English andArithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to thosewho have experience in the trade.

9.Attendance At Work

Unless otherwise specifically instructed by hisEmployer, an employee shall present himself for workon every day other than a holiday due to him, at theusual starting time and at the usual working place andshall thereafter remain available for work throughoutthe normal working hours.

10.Promotions

i.Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors beingcomparable, seniority shall be given preference.The Employers shall advertise internallyvacancies where employees covered by thisAgreement may have appropriate skills andqualifications to make them eligible.

ii.Where an employee acts in a senior capacityover a period of 6 months and if he is confirmedin the senior capacity, he will not be required toserve a period of probation.

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

iii.Where an employee is required to act in a seniorcapacity for a period of more than one month, itshould be communicated to him in writing andhe shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% ofthe difference between his salary and that whichwas last paid to the holder of such seniorposition, subject to a maximum of Rupees TwoThousand (Rs.2000/-) per mensem.

iv.Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 monthsand during that period the employer shall paythe employee 10% of the employees’ basicsalary as an overlooking allowance. Thisfunctional allowance shall not attract anyconsequential benefits such as EPF and ETF.

11.Salaries

1.The salaries payable to the employees coveredand bound by this agreement with effect from1st March 2017 shall be as follows.

i.With effect from 1st March 2017, thesalaries of all employees in employmentas at the date of signing of this Agreementshall be increased by 25% based on lastdrawn salary.

ii.In terms of the above salary revision, thesalary ranges applicable will accordinglybe revised as per Schedule II of thisagreement.

iii.In the case of Field Officers/Storekeeperswho are presently entitled to an allowanceon account of work as a Storekeeper, suchemployee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 12.5% of thesalary drawn by him/her. The allowancesshall not be payable if the additional dutiesare not performed or not deemednecessary. Contributions to EPF and ETFshall be made in respect of this allowance.

iv.Subject to the provisions set out in clause6 (i) above, the Regional PlantationsCompanies covered and bound will to paythe revised salaries in the month of March2017.

2.a) With effect from the date hereof, employeeswho are entitled to a payment in lieu of staffquarters being provided to them shall receive a

10% increment of the following allowances,depending on the grade to which they belong,and the revised allowance will be as follows:

Junior Asst. Field Officer – Rs. 1,122/- + 10%= Rs. 1,234/-Asst Field Officer – Rs. 1,188/- + 10% = Rs.1,307/-Field Officer – Rs. 1,386/- + 10% = Rs. 1,525/-Field Officer Special Grade – Rs. 1,518/- + 10%= Rs. 1,670/-

b) In the event of any person not occupyingquarters provided by the Employer, suchperson shall be liable to disciplinaryaction.

12.Hours of Work and Overtime

i.The working week shall be six days of forty eighthours. One day each week shall be allowed as anoff day. Work on the weekly off day or in excessof forty eight hours per week or ten hours perday shall be deemed to be overtime.

ii.If required by his employer, an employee shallwork reasonable overtime which has beenauthorized by the employer. Each hour ofovertime work shall be calculated by dividingthe monthly rate by two hundred and forty (240)multiplied by one and a half (1 1/2).

13.Leave

1)Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leaveentitlement shall be on a proportionate basis.All employees with more than 20 years serviceand Heads of Departments shall be entitled tothree weeks paid annual leave as a specialbenefit. This right shall not extent to anyemployee recruited after 1st September 1993.

2)(i) Sick Leave – Leave on full pay shall be grantedup to a maximum of 21 working days in a year.Sick leave will be granted up to two days at atime without the submission of a MedicalCertificate. For leave of three days and over, amedical certificate from an approved MedicalPractitioner or a Government Hospital shall beconsidered necessary, subject to the right of theEmployer to call for a medical certificate asaforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

(ii)In the event of an employee not availinghimself of his full quota of sick leave, hemay carry forward his leave, which hecould use in the event of hospitalizationor a prolonged illness in a succeedingyear, subject to the condition however thathe cannot avail himself of more than 90days on that account.

(iii) In the case of an employee whose termspresently permit him a higher quantum ofsick leave he shall be permitted tocontinue to enjoy such concession aspersonal to him.

3) Casual Leave – All employees shall be entitled ineach year to a maximum of seven (7) days CasualLeave with full pay, not more than three (3) daysbeing taken at a time. Casual leave not taken inany one year will not be carried over to the nextyear.

4) Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowedeach year to each employee on account ofreligious festivals in accordance with thereligious persuasions of such employee. Suchleave may not, however, be taken in continuationwith Casual leave.

14.Holidays

Employees will be entitled to paid holidays on –February 4th –Independence DayApril 13th or 14th – Sinhala/Tamil New YearMay 1st –May Day

15.Gratuity

Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with thePayment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

16.Age of Retirement

i.Unless the letter of appointment specifies ahigher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be60 years and will be applicable to those who arein employment as at the date of signing thisagreement.

ii.However, an employer may retire an employeeat the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactorywork performance, conduct or state of healthof the employee. For this purpose

“unsatisfactory work performance’’ shall includeany act of misconduct in respect of whichdisciplinary action has been taken.

iii.An employer who decides to retire an employeeat the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii)above, shall give such employee one year’snotice in writing or pay one year’s salary in lieuof such notice. Where such notice is not givenand the employee concerned is found guilty ofmisconduct during such one year period whichmisconduct would have otherwise resulted in hisretirement at 55 years, the employee shall beretired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding thefact that notice has not been given or paymentmade in lieu.

17.Suspension As A Measure of Punishment

1.Punishment for offences in the case of anemployee may include suspension, providedhowever that such suspension shall not exceedfourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

2.Punishment in excess of three days suspensionwithout pay shall only be after a domesticinquiry. Such suspension shall be in writing.

18.Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries

1.An employee may be suspended from workwithout pay for a period not exceeding onemonth pending a disciplinary inquiry when thereis prima facie evidence, in the opinion of theEmployer, of a charge or charges of misconductagainst him.

2.Suspension of an employee on the groundreferred to in sub-clause (1) above for any periodin excess of one month shall be on half pay.

3.The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and(2) above shall not apply to the suspension ofan employee pending inquiries by the Police,by other Public Authorities or AuditVerifications.

19.Administrative Transfers

1.Transfers not involving hardship in relation toschooling of children or employment of aspouse, will, subject to the exigencies of theservice and the requirements of the Employer,

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

be made at the discretion of the Managementwith one month’s notice in writing.

2.Transfers from one estate to another or fromone division to another which are likely to causehardship on account of children’s schooling orthe spouse’s employment shall generally bemade at the end of the year with three months’notice in writing.

3.Employees whose children are sitting for theGCE OL/AL examination for the first time willnot be transferred in that particular year.

4.The transfers of Employees whose children areto be admitted to Grade 01 in School also willbe considered on a case by case basis.

5.No employee covered by this Agreement shallbe transferred, except on disciplinary grounds,in the last year prior to his retirement.

6.The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3) and(4) above shall not apply to transfers ondisciplinary grounds, but the Management shallgive reasonable notice, depending on thecircumstances of each case.

20.Annual Increments

1.Annual increments shall be grantedautomatically on completion of an year’sservice. The increments will be awarded inaccordance with the practice prevailing on eachestate. Where increments are awarded on auniform date to all employees, in the event ofan employee being confirmed in service withinsix months of the date on which increments areawarded, he shall not be entitled to any incrementand will become eligible only from the followingyear.

2.An increment may be suspended, stopped ordeferred, by way of punishment or for generalinefficiency, after the employee has beennotified in writing of such fact. In the case ofdeferment, the loss of increment shall becontinuous, whereas stoppage would be only forthe period relevant to the stoppage.

3.Revised annual increments shall be paid to allemployees in employment from 1st March2017.

21.Disciplinary Inquiries

1.An employee may be suspended without pay byhis Employer pending an inquiry on a chargewhich warrants dismissal or where, in theopinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace,damage to property or disturbance of businessneeds to be avoided. Where an employee issuspended without pay he shall be notified in ageneral manner of the reasons for suchsuspension within 3 days of the actualsuspension.

2.An employee may also be suspended with paypending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry,where the Management deems that such measureis necessary.

3.An employee is entitled to be furnished with a‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges ofmisconduct alleged against him and theemployee shall be granted not less than seven(7) clear working days in which to give theanswer or explanation. Where necessary theemployee may request further time and theEmployer shall permit a reasonable amount oftime depending on the nature of the charges, butnot exceeding a total of 14 working days, otherthan in exceptional circumstances.

4.lf the Employer is satisfied with the writtenexplanation, the employee shall be exoneratedof the charge or charges and where appropriatehe shall be summoned to report back for work.Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, theEmployer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry withina reasonable length of time and shall commencesuch inquiry within 30 working days from thedate on which the explanation to the ‘showcause’ letter is received, unless circumstancesprevent the employer from doing so.

5.An employee shall be permitted to have a Unionmember to defend him at the lnquiry. Suchrepresentative shall not be a professional. If theemployee wishes to have the benefit of suchrepresentation he shall inform theSuperintendent of the name of the persondefending him at least 48 hours before theInquiry is due to commence. The SuperintendentMay object to the individual selected, in whichevent the accused employee may nominateanother representative. The failure of an

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

employee to be defended by a representativeshall not vitiate the inquiry.

6.The Employer shall endeavour to give thefindings and convey the punishment, if any, withina period of 30 working days from the date onwhich the inquiry is conclude, unless there isjustification for the delay. In no case shallfindings be delayed beyond 90 working daysfrom the date of conclusion of the inquiry, saveand except in the case of a pending criminalinvestigation. If no findings are given within 90working days and the above exception does notapply, the accused employee shall be exoneratedof the charges.

7.Notwithstanding the above provisions, anEmployer may, where the circumstances sowarrant, terminate an employee summarily. Insuch event, the letter of termination shall setout the reasons for termination, including thejustification for summary termination. In suchevent, the Union may appeal to the Employer orto the appropriate forum.

22.Variations of Terms and conditions of Employmentand Disputes

1.Parties hereto agree that during the continuancein force of this Agreement. they will not seekto very, alter or add to any of the terms andconditions of employment, except by mutualconsent.

2.Any employee enjoying a benefit which is overand above the normal entitlement, shall continueto enjoy the same as personal, but this benefitshall not extent to any other employee. The aboveprovision shall not apply to the consumption ofelectricity, where a limit is fixed for allemployees.

3.Any dispute or issue of interpretation of thisAgreement shall be resolved by reference to theCommissioner General of Labour under theIndustrial disputes Act, and if no settlementcould be reached, by voluntary arbitrationthereafter.

4.It is agreed by and between parties that theUnions, collectively or independently, or theirmembers, shall not resort to any from of tradeunion action on any matter covered by thisAgreement or is connected therewith.

23.Disputes Resolution Committee

It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolutioncommittee’ comprising of 4 members eachrepresenting the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon andthe Ceylon Estates Staff Union will be formed. Suchcommittee will meet once in three months to resolveany dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 aboveas well as in relation to any violation of the provisionsof this agreement, if required. However, in case of anurgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’notice.

24.Duty Leave

1.Subject to the approval of their respectiveEmployers, the President and one other officebearer of the Parent Union will be permittedsuch duty leave as their Union duties require.

2.Where any dispute arises with regard to dutyleave of the President and the nominated officebearer of the Parent Union, as specified in subclause (1) above, the Federation will attempt toeffect an amicable settlement between parties.

3.By mutual arrangement with the Employer, theTreasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowedtwelve days duty leave in any one year.

4.By arrangement with their respectiveEmployers, two Vice Presidents of the Unionshall be allowed twelve days duty leave whichmay be shared, on condition that the total leaveavailed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shallnot exceed twelve days in any one year.

5.By arrangement with their respective Employers,Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelvedays duty leave which may be shared with therespective Branch Secretaries, on condition that thetotal leave availed jointly by these two Office bearersshall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

Part II

1.The Regional Plantation Companies covered and boundby this Agreement more fully described in Schedule Ito this Agreement undertakes to discuss with Unionto resolve any issues relevant to employees in asituation of amalgamation/sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations.

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

2.Electricity

Free electricity would be granted to members of staffon the following basis, irrespective of what they hadbeen enjoying in the past.

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)Senior staff – 140 unitsJunior staff – 100 units

Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)Senior staff – 170 unitsJunior staff – 130 units

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate thatcosts each estate.

Kerosene – Employer shall provide 25 litres keroseneper mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions without electricity.

3.Tea Allowance

The employer shall provide free tea, on the followingbasis, to members of estate staff (including futurerecruits in those categories presently entitled)irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Senior staff – 2 Kgs.Junior staff – 1 1/2 Kgs.

The staff members could purchase in addition to theabove free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75%of the NSA or COP whichever is lower.

Staff members who had been entitled to three or morekilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992would be entitled to purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at aconcessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whicheveris lower with effect from 1st June 2003.

4.Death Grant

1.With effect from the date hereof, on the deathof a staff member, the dependents will be paid asum of Rs. 75,000/- as funeral expenses.

2.The dependents of the deceased staff memberwill be paid a 50% of the sum equivalent to 3months’ salary within one month upon the deathof the employee and the balance at the time thedependants hand over the staff quarters.

3.If quarters are not provided to the deceased staffmember, the dependents will be paid the sumequivalent to 3 months’ salary within one monthof the death of the staff member.

5.Medical Aid Scheme

1.The Employee contribution to the medical aidscheme will be 5% and the Employers’contribution shall be 10%.

2.A staff member who is a member of the staffmedical aid scheme will be paid the total balancelying to his/her credit in the fund inclusive ofthe company’s contribution to such fund, at thetime of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment from the estate.

Interpretation

WordMeaning

Unionmeans the Union referred to as the Party ofthe Second Part in this Agreement.Disputeshall have the same meaning as in theIndustrial Disputes Act.Employermeans a company who has subscribed tothis Agreement and is referred to in ScheduleI hereof.Weekmeans the period between midnight on anySaturday and midnight on the succeedingSunday night.Yearmeans a continuous period of 12 months.Gendera reference to the masculine gender shallinclude the feminine as well.

In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereuntoset their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March TwoThousand and Seventeen.

A. L. W. GoonewardenaDhammika JayawardeneChairmanPresidentPlantation ServicesCeylon Estate Staffs’ UnionEmployers’ Group

W. M. K. L WeerasingheDirector GeneralThe Employers’Federation of Ceylon

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

Witnesses

1.1.Dilantha SeneviratneMr. Nath AmarasingheDirector/ CEOGeneral SecretaryTalawakelle Tea Estates PLCCeylon Estate Staffs’ Union

2.2.Mahen MadugalleRobert FrancisDirector/ CEOTreasurerKotagala Plantation PLCCeylon Estate Staffs’ Union

3.3.Prasad de SilvaS. S. JayakumarAssistant Director GeneralDeputy PresidentHead of Plantation ServicesCeylon Estate Staffs’ UnionThe Employers’ Federationof Ceylon

SCHEDULE I

Agalawatte Plantations PLCAgarapatana Plantations LimitedBalangoda Plantations PLCBogawantalawa Tea Estates PLCElpitiya Plantations PLCElkaduwa Plantations LimitedHapugastenne Plantations PLCHorana Plantations PLCKahawatte Plantations PLCKegalle Plantations PLCKelani Valley Plantations PLCKotagala Plantations PLCMadulsima Plantations PLCMalwatte Valley Plantations PLCMaskeliya Plantations PLCMaturata Plantations LimitedNamunukula Plantations PLCPussellawa Plantations LimitedTalawakelle Tea Estates PLCUdapussellawa Plantations PLCWatawala Plantations PLC

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

SCHEDULE II

Supervisory Staff Salary Ranges

Junior Asst. Field OfficerRs. 23,650.00 – Rs. 41,650.00Annual Increment450

Asst. Field OfficerRs. 24,100.00 - Rs. 46,100.00Annual Increment550

Field OfficerRs. 24,950.00 - Rs. 54,950.00Annual Increment750

Sp. Grade Field OfficerRs. 28,900.00 - Rs. 82,900.00Annual Increment1350