==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

w;s úfYI

wxl 2035$17 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 06 jeks nodod - 2017'09'06No. 2035/17 - WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 06, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A—G 26202 - 14 (09/2017)

My No. CI/1407.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between NestleLanka PLC, No. 440, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 ofthe one part and the Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial andGeneral Workers' Union (CMU), No. 03, Bala Tampoe Lane,Colombo 03 of the other part on 09th February 2017 ishereby published in terms of Section 06 of the IndustrialDisputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactmentsof Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Acting Commissioner of Labour.25th August 2017,Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.

Collective Agreement No. 10 of 2017

NESTLE LANKA PLC. KURUNEGALA FACTORYCOLLECTIVE AGREEMENT OF 2016

Collective agreementBetweenNestle Lanka PLC. Kurunegala factoryAndThe Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial & GeneralWorkers’ Union (CMU)

Contentspage

Part I - General5

1. Title5

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

This agreement shall be known and referred toas “Nestle Lanka Plc. Kurunegala FactoryCollective Agreement of 2016.”5

2. Date of operation and duration53. Earlier collective agreements54. Persons covered and bound55. General terms and conditions56. Variation of terms and conditions ofemployment or benefits67. Check off68. Union meetings/ duty leave69. Trade union action7

Part II - probation8

10. Probation on recruitment8

Part III - working hours9

11. Working hours9

Part IV - wage administration and allowances10

12. Initial salary points1013. Salaries1014. Non-recurring cost of living gratuity1115. Performance based payments1116. Overtime1217. Weekly holidays1218. Statutory holidays1219. Festival advance1320. Uniforms1321. Bonus1322. Shift allowance1423. Free tea / coffee14

Part IV - leave15

24. Annual leave1525. Casual leave15

Part VI - sick leave & medical benefits17

26. Sick leave1727. Medical benefits / hospitalisation18

Part VII - retirement and terminal benefits19

28. Age of retirement1929. Provident fund1930. Employees’ trust fund19

Part VIII - attendance & carrying out employers’20instructions

31. Attendance2032. Carrying out employer’s instructions20

Part IX - suspension, disciplinary procedure and21grievance & disputes procedure

33. Suspension2134. Disciplinary procedure / domestic inquiries2135. Grievance & disputes procedure23

Appendix I25

Appendix II26

Collective AgreementBetweenNestle Lanka PLC. Kurunegala FactoryAndThe Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial & GeneralWorkers’ Union (CMU)

This collective agreement made and entered into on the 9thFebruary 2017, Two Thousand and Seventeen betweenNESTLE LANKA PLC. Factory, located at Pannala, in thedistrict of Kurunegala, having its registered office at no.440, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referredto as the “employer” of the one part and the CeylonMercantile, Industrial & General Workers Union (CMU),being a trade union duly registered under the trade unions’ordinance, having its registered office at No. 03, BalaTampoe Lane, Colombo 03 (hereinafter referred to as the“union”) of the other part.

Witnesseth

Whereas the union has shown to the satisfaction of theemployer that it represents a majority of the employees.

Therefore, in consideration of the above premises andthe mutual terms and conditions hereinafter set out, theunion and the Employer agree as follows:

Part I - general

1. Title

This agreement shall be known and referred to as“Nestle Lanka Plc. Kurunegala factory collectiveagreement of 2016.”

ContentspageContentspage

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

2. Date of operation and duration

This agreement shall come into force with effectfrom 1st December 2016 and shall be in force up tothe 30th day of november in the year 2019, but shallcontinue to remain in force thereafter, until such timeas valid notice of termination of the agreement isgiven by either party. No notice will be valid unlessgiven in writing by either party and is of at least six(6) calendar months duration. The earliest date atwhich such notice could validity terminate thecontract is 31st May 2019.

3. Earlier collective agreements

The provisions of this agreement shall supersede andreplace the provisions of any earlier collectiveagreement including the provisions of the “TheNestle Lanka PLC, Kurunegala Factory collectiveagreement of 2013”, which shall stand terminatedwith effect from the date on which this agreementtakes effect.

4. Persons covered and bound

This agreement shall cover and bind the Employer,the union, employees who are members of the unionand all the employees who are employed onpermanent monthly contracts of employment by theemployer.

5. General terms and conditions

The terms and conditions of this agreement shall asfrom the date hereafter and during the continuancein force of this agreement be deemed to be includedin all contracts of employment between theEmployer and the employees covered and bound bythis Agreement.

6. Variation of terms and conditions of Employmentor benefits

6.1 The Employer, the union and its members, andemployees covered and bound by thisAgreement, agree that, during the continuanceof this Agreement, that neither party will seekto vary or add to any of the terms andconditions of employment, and benefitspresently covered and bound by thisAgreement and existing benefits and privilegesnot specified in the agreement.

6.2 any variations or additions required to any ofthe terms and conditions and benefits coveredand bound by this Agreement should only bedone by mutual agreement.

7. Check off

7.1 The Employer agrees to deduct unionsubscriptions from the salaries of unionmembers and remit such subscriptionsmonthly to the union provided prior consentin writing is received by the employer fromeach member.

7.2 The above membership deductions under sub-clause 7.1 would be subject to the union havinga minimum membership of 40% of theemployees in categories covered by thiscollective Agreement.

8. Union meetings duty leave

8.1 The union or the branch union may with theagreement of the Employer hold committeemeetings and general meetings of the unionwithin the Employer’s premises at such placesand times as agreed by management. No personwho is not in the employment of the Employershall attend such meetings without the writtenagreement of the Employer.

8.2 duty leave

Without prejudice to the rights of theEmployer, to refuse to grant permission if inhis discretion the exigencies of thecircumstances warrant refusal, the Employerwill generally grant permission for not morethan two (2) office bearers of the union toattend to the following matters in connectionwith the membership in the company withoutloss of wages for such absence.

8.2.1 to be present at conferences to be heldunder the aegis of the Employer or theemployers’ federation of ceylon or thedepartment of labour in connection witha dispute between the union and theEmployer.

8.2.2 to attend inquiries before industrialcourts, arbitrators or labour tribunals.

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

8.3 The Employer will in his discretion grant leavewithout remuneration to an employee to attenda trade union course or seminar or conference,either in Sri Lanka or abroad,. However, theemployee concerned is entitled to make useof his annual leave or statutory holidays forthe purpose.

9. Trade union action

The Employer, union and the employees covered andbound by this Collective Agreement undertake thatthey shall not during the continuance in force of thisAgreement attempt to seek to vary in any matter anyof the terms and conditions agreed upon herein,unless otherwise mutually agreed upon, and the unionand its members shall not resort to any form of tradeunion action in relation to any dispute connectedwith or arising out of any matter covered by theCollective Agreement.

In the event any dispute/s that may arise on a matternot covered by this agreement, parent union willinform the company and provide 7 working days’notice before engaging in trade union actions.

In the event trade union decides to resort to action,employees who are deployed in critical serviceswould be exempted from such action on the requestof the Company

Part II - Probation

10. Probation of recruitment

10.1 All employees on first employment to thecompany shall be on probation for a period ofsix (6) months that may be extended by three(3) months if the employer is not satisfied withthe progress of such employee.

10.2 On successful completion of the probationaryperiod, the employee shall be advised inwriting by the Employer of his confirmation.

10.3 During the period of probation or extendedprobation, either party shall have the rights toterminate the service without notice.

Part III - working hours

11. Working hours

The hours of work shall be as stipulated belowsubject to any changes which my have to be effectedas a result of the government or policy decision ofthe company to meet any exigencies. However, anychanges should be by mutual agreement between thetwo parties.

11.1 General office staff

The normal hours of work will be from 8.00a.m. To 5.00 p.m. From Monday to Friday eachweek.

11.2 All other categories of staff

The normal working hours per week shall beforty-four (44) hours excluding meal times.Schedules of working hours and rosters forshift employees shall be determined by theemployer and these times shall be displayedon the notice boards.

Part IV - Wage administration and allowances

12. Initial salary points

As from the first day of December, Two ThousandSixteen, the initial salary points applicable to thecategories of employees covered and bound by thisagreement shall be as set out in Appendix I hereof.Revision of initial salary points will be decided bythe company based on required skills and marketvalue.

13. Salaries

As from the first day of December, Two ThousandSixteen the monthly salaries of the employees shallbe revised as set out hereunder;

13.1 with effect from 1st December 2016, theMonthly basic salary as at 30th November2016 drawn by each employee will beincreased as follows.

Salary grouppercentageincrease

Below Rs.60,000.0012%

Rs.60,000.00 & above9.5%

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

The Basic Aalary as at 30th November 2016 istaken for the above purposes.

13.2 with effect from 01st December 2017, theMonthly Basic Salary of an employee as at 30thnovember 2017 will be increased as follows.

Salary grouppercentageincrease

Below Rs.60,000.009%

Rs.60,000.00 & above8.5%

The Basic Salary as at 30th November 2017 istaken for the above purposes.

13.3 With effect from 01st December 2018, theMonthly Basic Salary of an employee as at 30thnovember 2018 will be increased as follows.

Salary grouppercentageincrease

Below Rs.60,000.008.5%

Rs.60,000.00 & above7.5%

The basic salary as at 30th November 2018 istaken for the above purposes.

13.4 It is agreed and understood that the monthlybasic salary stated above, clauses 13.1, 13.2and 13.3 are all-inclusive and shall not attractany additional amounts by way of annualincrements on a salary scale or revision onaccount of cost of living based on a consumerprice index.

14. Non-recurring cost of living gratuity

14.1 The payment of non-recurring cost of livinggratuity will be made every year based on theColombo Consumers Price Index (CCPI). AnEmployee shall be entitled to receive and theemployer is liable to pay a non-recurring costof living gratuity to employees in service inDecember 2017, in respect of the precedingtwelve (12) months (hereinafter referred to asthe “qualifying period”) commencing from01st December 2016, ascertained inaccordance with the under noted formula.

Formula

If the average of the Colombo Consumers’ Priceindex for the qualifying period exceedsColombo Consumers’ Price Index of November2009 a sum computed at the rate of rupeesEighty Three and Cents Seventy Five (Rs.83.75)for each complete point (i.e.1.0) by which suchaverage exceeds Colombo Consumers’ PriceIndex of November 2009 in respect of eachmonth of service during the qualifying period.

14.2 The non-recurring cost of living gratuity shallbe payable by the Employer to an employeeby virtue of his service under the employerduring a part of the qualifying year by reasonof the fact that he is not in the Employer’sservice when the non-recurring cost of livinggratuity becomes due in December of any yearor he joined the Employer’s service during thecourse of the qualifying year. When the non-recurring cost of living gratuity is paid at theend of the qualifying year, deductions are madethere from on account of any period of absencewithout pay.

15. Performance based payments

It is agreed by and between parties that there shallbe no fixed automatic increments applicable to anycategory of employees and whatever payments in theform of lump sum and /or increases during the periodof this collective agreement shall be determined bythe employer subject to a performance appraisal ofeach employee. The decision of the employer withregard to the grant/ non-grant of this payment in theform a lump sum and / or increase shall be final andshall not be the subject of an industrial dispute.

16. Overtime

16.1 Overtime work shall mean work performed inexcess of normal working hours.

16.2 If required by the Employer, due to exigencyof the services, overtime work will beperformed by the employee as and when andfor such period as the Employer mayreasonably require. An employee shall have agood reason for such refusal to do any overtimework required by the Employer.

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

16.3 Work performed in excess of the normal hoursshall be remunerated as per the over timeschedule shown in appendix II of thisAgreement.

17. Weekly holidays

In respect of each week every industrial employeeshall be allowed one (1) weekly holiday and everyshop and office employee one and a half (1 1/2) daysas weekly holidays, provided that an employee hasworked for a period of at least twenty - eight (28)hours exclusive of any overtime work for that weekand otherwise the Employer shall be entitled todeduct a day’s wage in respect of the weekly holidayfor that week.

17.1 In computing the period of twenty-eight (28)hours referred to, the Employer shall include

17.1.1 Every holiday allowed by the employer to theEmployee as the annual holiday.

17.1.2 Every public holiday granted by the employer.

17.1.3 Every day’s absence on any grounds approvedby the employer.

18. Statutory holidays

18.1 Employee will be granted statutory holidaysand poya holidays as determined by legislationsubject to exigency of work.

18.2 If any of the statutory holidays fall on a weeklyhalf day, an additional half-day shall be grantedon the working day immediately preceding itand if it falls on a weekly holiday, a substituteholiday shall be granted on the working dayimmediately succeeding such weekly fullholiday.

19. Festival advance

The employer agrees to pay an advance not exceedingthe amount stated below, for the respective years,for one festival per year of the employee’s choice,if the concerned employee does not have anyunauthorized absence days accumulated to his/ heraccount for the previous calendar year. In the eventan employee has been on unauthorised absenceduring the previous calendar year this advance will

be curtailed to Rs.12,000/- per employee per festivalper year.

2017 - Rs.30,0002018 - Rs.30,0002019 - Rs.30,000

This will be recovered ordinarily in ten (10) monthlyinstallments or where the employee leaves theemployer’s employment, the full balance will bededucted from his balance salary/ final payment.

20. Uniforms

The Employer provides free uniforms to thoseemployees required to wear such uniforms accordingto the requirements of the job. It is obligatory onthe part of the employees to wear such uniforms.

21. Bonus

The employer agrees to pay a bonus to employeeseach year for the period of this Agreement on thefollowing basis;

21.1 Two (2) months’ salary each year.

For any employee to be entitled to the fullbenefit set out in clauses 21.1 above, suchemployee should as at the date of such payment,have been in employment with the employerduring the preceding twelve (12) month period.An Employee who has not been in employmentduring the full preceding twelve (12) monthperiod from the date of the payment to begranted in terms of clauses 21.1, shall beentitled to a prorated amount having regard tothe number of completed months he/ she wasin employment during such preceding twelve(12) month period.

21.2 In addition to the bonus at 21.1, a half-month’ssalary, as bonus will be paid subject to ascheme for non-utilisation of 7 days of theCasual and/ or Sick leave. On this basis, foreach day unutilised of these 7 days, he will bepaid half-month’s salary divided by 7. Any Nopay leave (authorised or unauthorised) will alsobe set off against the seven days for the purposeof this scheme.

21.3 The payment of bonus under 21.1 and 21.2 maybe stopped totally or partly for disciplinaryreasons and unauthorised no pay absence.

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

22. Shift allowance

Employees required to work on shift will be paid ashift allowance on the following basis. Shiftallowance will be paid, only for the days theemployee presents himself for full day’s work.

Shiftfromtoamount

Morning06:00hrs14:00hrsRs.100.00

Afternoon 14:00hrs22:00hrsRs.125.00

Night22:00hrs06:00hrsRs.275.00

Additionally with effect from January 2017 anAttendance Incentive of Rs.2,500.00 per month willbe paid to employees who will attend all theirrostered night shifts in the given month. This paymentwill not be curtailed for employees should thecompany changes the night shift roster and shall notbe curtailed for those employees who are on longAnnual Leave with prior approval and any exceptionwill be granted with 07 days prior approval. Further,the payment will not be curtailed for a maximum ofone rostered night shift is missed during a givenmonth provided such leave is taken with priorapproval under casual or annual leave.

23. Free tea/ coffee

The company will provide a cup of tea / coffee to allemployees during the two-tea/ coffee intervals.

Part V - Leave

24. Annual leave

24.1 Employees are entitled to earned annual leaveof a maximum of fourteen (14) working daysper calendar year and such leave will beallowed at times convenient to the Employerand the employees subject to the condition thatat least seven (7) days have to be takenconsecutively on the basis of a roster preparedat the beginning of each leave year. However,any changes to this roster due to exigenciesof work should be only by mutual agreement.Annual leave has to be applied for and approvedin advance. However, an employee may opt toset off absence due to ill health in excess oftwenty-one (21) day’s sick leave allowed underclause 26 against his annual leave entitlement.

24.2 New Employees shall be granted annual leaveduring the following year on a proportionatebasis as follows:

Employees joining between.

1st January and 31st March- 14 days

1st April and 30th June- 10 days

1st July and 30th September- 07 days

1st October and 31st December- 04 days

25. Casual leave

25.1 Employees are entitled to seven (7) workingdays casual leave per calendar year. Theemployee has to notify his immediate superiorof his intention of taking such casual leave.Such casual leave will normally be granted onapplication without the employee beingrequired to state the reason. When theEmployer finds it difficult to grant, such casualleave requested for, such difficulty shall benotified to the employee as soon as possible.After the application is made and in suchcircumstances, the employee may be requiredto state the reason for the leave requested forand the employer may decide whether it isreasonable in the circumstances to grant himcasual leave.

When an employee due to unforeseencircumstances is unable to apply for casualleave in advance, he shall notify the companyat the earliest opportunity and state the reasonfor his absence upon his return to work. TheEmployer will assess the reason for such anapplication and decide whether it is reasonablein the circumstances to grant him casual leave.The decision of the Employer to grant or notto grant such casual leave is final.

25.2 Employees shall be entitled to take casualleave on account of private business or otherreasonable cause including ill health, if thatemployee’s twenty-one (21) days sick leaveallowed under clause 26 has been fully utilised.In such instances the Employer shall allowsuch casual leave with remuneration for aperiod, or an aggregate of periods, notexceeding seven (7) days.

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

25.3 Provided however, that not more than two (2)days’ casual leave shall be taken at any one timeexcept upon grounds of ill health.

25.4 Provided further that an employee shall not beentitled to take casual leave immediatelypreceding or immediately following any periodof annual leave.

25.5 A New Employee in his first year ofemployment including any period of probationshall be entitled to casual leave for that yearcomputed on the basis of one day for eachcompleted period of two (2) months’ service.

Part VI – Sick Leave & Medical Benefits

26 Sick Leave

26.1 An Employee shall be granted up to a maximumof Twenty one (21) working days leave on fullpay in any one calendar year in the case ofsickness.

26.2 The Employer may request an employee tosupport his/her sickness with a medicalcertificate from a Sri Lanka Medical CouncilRegistered Medical Practitioner.

26.3 The Employer will be entitled to refuse togrant pay for any days of absence on groundsof sickness not supported by a certificate fromany Medical Practitioner registered in theMedical Council of Sri Lanka or AyurvedicMedical Council of Sri Lanka.

26.4 An Employee shall inform the Companyimmediately of such sickness or at least withintwo (2) days and produce a Medical Certificatewithin three (3) days.

26.5 An employee who takes less than Twenty one(21) days sick leave in any one calendar year,as allowed above (Clause 26.1) may availhimself of the balance sick leave byaccumulation to a maximum of Ninety (90)days with pay in any one – year. Theaccumulated sick leave shall only be in accountof Prolonged illness, Hospitalization,Infectious Diseases or similar circumstances,and such sick leave should be supported by amedical certificate from a Sri Lanka MedicalCouncil Registered Medical Practitioner /

Consultant Physician or Surgeon and shouldbe approved by the Company Medical Officerunless this requirement is waived by theemployer. An employee shall in the firstinstance avail himself of the accumulated sickleave before utilizing his twenty one (21) dayssick leave in respect of that year.

26.6 During the period of probation employees arenot entitled to any sick leave. However, afterconfirmation in respect of the first year ofemployment , employees will be allowed sickleave during that year up to 31st of December,computed on the basis of one and half (1 1/2)days for each month of employment.

27. Medical Benefits / Hospitalization

27.1 The Employer agrees to reimburse medicalexpenses in terms of the Company MedicalScheme on the following basis :

2017 – Rs. 37,500.002018 – Rs. 40,000.002019 – Rs. 40,000.00

The Employer agrees for the employee toaccumulate to a maximum of Rs. 58, 750.00unutilized reimbursement of medicalexpenses.

27.2 Medical expenses are reimbursed only foremployees and their immediate families.Immediate families are defined as Husband /Wife and dependent legitimate children ofemployees. This is on condition that theHusband/ Wife is not covered by anotherMedical Benefits Scheme of their employer;and in such case the Employer does not allowduplication.

27.3 Hospitalization

For hospital treatment, employees are granteda Medical Insurance Scheme through a reputedInsurance Company of Sri Lanka. Both theemployee and the Employer pay 50% of theinsurance premium each. This scheme covershospitalization of the employee only.

Employee may cover the immediate family(Spouse and Children) at their own discretionunder the said Insurance Scheme, the employee

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

and the Employer pay 50% each of theinsurance premiums for this purpose.

Part VII – Retirement and terminal benefits

28. Age of Retirement

On reaching the age of Fifty five (55) years anemployee shall ipso facto retire and cease to beemployed by the Employer. There shall be noobligation on the Employer to give the employeeany notice of such retirement. In the event of anemployee being offered employment afterretirement, such employee shall not be covered bythis Agreement.

29. Provident Fund

Contributions to Provident Fund will be at the rateof 12% by the employer and 8% by the employee ofthe consolidated monthly salary as prescribed bylegislation.

30. Employees’ Trust Fund

The Employer shall contribute to the Employees’Trust Fund at the rates prescribed by legislation.

Part VIII – Attendance & Carrying out Employer’sinstructions

31. Attendance

Unless otherwise specifically instructed byManagement, an employee shall present himself /herself for work on every day (other than holidays)at the usual starting time for the job and shall remainthere available for work throughout the normalworking hours.

32. Carrying Out Employer’s Instructions

32.1 If an employee considers any duty, which he/she is required to perform by the Employer,does not fall within the scope of his / heremployment under the Employer, he / she shallbe entitled to bring this matter to the notice ofthe Employer. If notwithstanding suchnotification the Employer requires theemployee to carry out such instructions, thenthe employee shall be entitled to request theEmployer to give him / her such instructionsin writing.

32.2 If the Employer gives the employee suchinstructions in writing, the employee shallcarry out the same but without prejudice to therights of the Union on his / her behalf todispute such matters with the Employerthereafter as provided in this Agreement.

32.3 If the Employer refuses to give suchinstructions in writing, the employee shall beentitled not to carry out such instructions andin such event the Employer shall have no rightof action against the employee.

32.4 If the Employer gives such instructions inwriting but the employee fails to carry out thesame, the Employer shall be entitled tosuspend the employee immediately withoutpay and to take disciplinary action against him/ her without prejudice to the rights of theemployee or the Union on his / her behalf todispute such suspension or such disciplinaryaction as may be taken against the employeeas provided in this Agreement.

32.5 Irregular attendance or un – punctuality of theemployee shall constitute neglect of duty forwhich the employee is liable for appropriatedisciplinary action.

Part IX – suspension, disciplinary procedure andgrievance & disputes procedure

In case of misconduct, the Employer is entitled tostart Disciplinary Action, which is detailedhereunder.

Disciplinary Action

33. Suspension

33.1 An employee may be suspended without payby the Employer ;

33.1.1 Pending an inquiry to be held by theEmployer on a charges of misconductwhich are appeared to be against thecompany,

33.1.2 In order to avoid a breach of the peaceor damage to property or disturbance ofthe business of the employer,

10AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

33.1.3 In case of fraud, theft, misappropriationor like offence by the employee in thecourse of his employment,

33.1.4 In case of abuse, threat or grossinsubordination by the employee to amember of the Management Staff of theEmployer,

33.1.5 For failing to carry out Employer’sInstructions in terms of clauses 31 and32.

33.2 At the time of suspension or within twenty –four (24) hours the Employer shall provide theemployee with a written order of suspensionspecifying the reasons for such suspension.

34. Disciplinary Procedure / Domestic Inquiries

Where the Employer proposes to proceed againstan employee then :-

34.1 Irrespective of whether an employee has beensuspended under clause 33 hereof or not, anemployee shall be furnished with a show causenotice, which shall set out the particulars ofthe charges of misconduct alleged against suchemployee. Such show cause notice shall givethe employee not less than Three (3) clearworking days within which to give the answer.

34.2 Within Three (3) working days after the day ofthe show cause notice the employee shallfurnish in writing to the employer, the answeror explanation to the charges against suchemployee. The employee may request for anextension of time for reply. The Employer maygrant such request for such further period oftime if deemed necessary in the circumstancesof the case.

34.3 If the Employer is satisfied with the writtenanswer or explanation of the employee, theemployee shall, If he is suspended, bereinstated forthwith and be paid allentitlements due to him for the period of suchsuspension.

34.4 If the employer is not satisfied with the writtenanswer or explanation of the employee to theshow cause notice and such answer orexplanation is rejected by the Employer, the

Employer shall commence an inquiry withinSeven (7) working days from the date ofreceipt by him of the written answer orexplanation to the show cause notice.

34.5 After holding such inquiry, the employee shallnormally be informed of the findings of eachof the charges in the show cause notice andthe punishment, if any, within thirty (30)working days from the date of the conclusionof the inquiry. If the Employer fails to informthe employee, except for reasons beyond thecontrol of the Employer, the employee shallnot be liable to be punished in respect of thecharges and no inference adverse to theemployee in respect of such charges shall bedrawn.

34.6 If the employee is under suspension and theEmployer after inquiry decides that;

34.6.1 The employee is not guilty of thecharges, the employee shall be reinstatedimmediately and all wages andentitlements paid.

34.6.2 The employee is guilty of one or morecharges, the employee shall be informedof the findings and the punishmentimposed by the Employer.

If the punishment given to the employee is notdismissal, suspension without pay shall notexceed seven (7) working days. If the serviceof the employee is to be terminated, suchtermination shall take effect from the date ofsuspension of the employee and the employeeshall not be paid for the period of suspension.

34.7 If in the opinion of the Employer the nature ofthe charges is serious and the case has beenreferred or is to be referred to the police orother authorities for investigation, and theEmployer is unable to inform the employeeof the outcome of the inquiry, the employeeshall remain under suspension without payuntil the investigations are completed and theEmployer is able to decide on the outcome ofthe inquiry.

If the Employer fails to inform the employeeof the outcome of the inquiry within thirty (30)working days due to reasons beyond the

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

control of the Employer, the employee shallbe paid half his monthly wages for the firstthirty (30) working days and full wages afterthirty (30) days to the time a decision is takenregarding the outcome of the inquiry. This willnot apply in cases where the inquiry ispostponed or a decision is unable to be takenon the outcome of the inquiry for any reasonsdue to the employee’s own seeking.

34.8 Domestic Inquiries

34.8.1 An employee may request the Employerto allow an ‘observer’ to be present atthe inquiry to be held into the charges.The ‘observer’ who shall be anotheremployee, shall be present at the inquirywithout loss of wages due to absencefrom the workplace.

34.8.2 The employee shall inform the Employerthe name of the ‘observer’ one (1)working day before the commencementof the inquiry.

34.8.3 The ‘observer’ shall not be entitled torepresent the employee or otherwiseparticipate in the inquiry.

34.8.4 If an ‘observer’ obstructs such inquiry,the officer who conducts the inquiry shallbe entitled to request the ‘observer’ towithdraw from the inquiry immediatelyand the ‘observer’ shall comply with suchrequest.

34.8.5 The absence of an ‘observer’ from wholeor any part of an inquiry for any reasonshall not change or nullify the inquiry,the proceedings or the findings.

34.8.6 The employee may make a writtensubmission to the Employer within one(1) working day on conclusion of theinquiry on any special observations hewishes to make in the manner in whichthe inquiry was held or the evidence wasrecorded.

34.8.7 The Union may make written submissionsto the Employer within one (1) workingday on conclusion of the inquiryregarding the manner in which the inquirywas held or the evidence was recorded.

35. Grievance & Disputes Procedure

35.1 Recognizing the value and importance of fulldiscussion in clearing up misunderstanding andpreserving harmonious relations, every effortshall be made by the Employer and the Unionto dispose of any inquiries, complaints,grievances or disputes as soon as possible. Thefollowing procedure shall be followed inrespect of such matter and for anyinterpretation.

35.2 An employee may present his grievance orcomplaint to his immediate supervisor or tohis head of department. The employee may beaccompanied by his Branch Unionrepresentative. If the employee is not satisfiedwith the answer he receives, he may thenproceed to clause 35.3.

35.3 An employee may present his grievance orcomplaint to the Factory Human ResourcesManager. The employee may be accompaniedby his branch Union representative. If theemployee is not satisfied, he may then proceedto clause 35.4.

35.4 The Branch Union may present the grievanceor complaint in writing to the Vice President– Technical; The Vice President – Technicalmay consult the parties involved beforesubmitting a reply in writing. If the BranchUnion is not satisfied with the writtenexplanation of the Vice President – Technical,the Branch union may request for a discussionbetween the Vice President – Technical and theBranch Union.

35.5 If the Branch Union and the employees are notsatisfied with the outcome of the discussionwith the Vice President – Technical, the Branchunion may refer it to the Union. The Union maymake a written submission to the VicePresident – Technical with a copy to the VicePresident Human Resources / Head of HumanResources of the employer in Colombo. If theUnion is not satisfied with the writtenexplanation given by the Vice President –Technical or Vice President HumanResources/ Head of Human Resources inColombo, the Union may request for adiscussion with the Vice President – Technicaland the Vice President Human Resources /Head of Human Resources.

12AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

35.6 If the Union is not satisfied with the outcomeof the discussion with the Vice President –Technical and the Vice President HumanResources / Head of Human Resources, theUnion may refer the matter to the Employer’sFederation of Ceylon, who will endeavour tobring about an amicable settlement in thematter and, if desired, utilizing the offices ofthe Department of Labour.

35.7In the event where the grievance or dispute isnot resolved with the Employer’s Federationof Ceylon, the matter by agreement shall bereferred to an arbitrator or a panel orarbitrators jointly selected by the partiesunder section 3 (1) (d) of the Industrial

Disputes Act for settlement by arbitration. Ifthe parties fail to agree on an arbitrator or apanel of arbitrators, such selection shall bemade by the commissioner of Labour thedecision and award of the Arbitrator or thepanel of Arbitrators shall be final and bindingon both parties.

35.8In case the Employer or the Union is of theopinion that in view of importance of thedispute there is need for quick settlement ofsuch grievance or dispute, either party maydecide to refer the matter to the Employer’sFederation of Ceylon, in which event theprocedure to be followed shall be as laid downin 35.6 and 35.7.

Appendix I

NESTLE LANKA PLC - KURUNEGALA FACTORY

Initial Salary Points - All Employees

GradeMinimum

Multi SkilledRs. 29,090.00 p. m.

Highly SkilledRs. 26,630.00 p. m.

SkilledRs. 24,400.00 p. m.

Semi- SkilledRs. 22,520.00 p. m.

Appendix II

NESTLE LANKA PLC - KURUNEGALA FACTORY

Overtime Payment Schedule

Worked onOffice StaffOther Industrial Employees includingEngineering Trade and Drivers

Over Normal Working Hours1 1/2 times the normal hourly rate1 1/2 times the normal hourly rate

Weekly 1/2 holiday1-4 hrs. @ 1 1/2 timesOver 4 hrs. @ 1 1/2 timesOr4 1/4-9 hrs. @ 2 timesOver 9 hrs. @ 3 times&Short working day for the week1/2 day's pay for work over 4hrs.

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

Weekly holiday1/4 hrs. 1 day's salary + 1/2 day's salary1-4 hrs. @1 1/2 times +Or1/2 day's salary1/2 day's lieu leave4 1/4 - 9 hrs. 2 day's4 1/4 - 8 1/2 hrs. @ 1 1/2 time +salary+1 day's salary1 day's salary *OR1 day's lieu leaveOver 8 1/2 hrs. @ 3 times+1 day's salaryOver 9 hrs. 3 days salary+ 1 day's salaryOR*Engineering trade employees for Sunday1 day lieu leavework, one day alternate holiday or 1 day'ssalary

Statutory Holiday1-4 hrs. 1 day's salary +1/2 day's salary1-4 hrs. @1 1/2 times+1/2 day's salaryOR1/2 day's lieu leave4 1/4-8 1/2 hrs. @1 1/2 times +4 1/4 - 9 hrs. 2 day's salary1 day's salary+1 day's salaryOR1 day lieu leave

Poya day2 1/2 times the normal2 1/2 times the normalHourly rate.Hourly rate.

The above overtime payments are in addition to the monthly salary

No overtime should be paid for Lunch/Dinner breaks

Normal Hourly Rate = salary/240

In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands at Makandura, Gonawila Shivani Hedge, ManagingDirector of Nestle Lanka PLC. Jagdish Singla, Vice President - Finance and Control of Nestle Lanka PLC, RohitMittal, Vice Preseident - Technical of Nestle Lanka PLC., Dona Enoca Samanthi Sirimanne, Assistant Vice President,Human Resorces, Nestle Lanka PLC., have set their hands for and on behalf of the the said Company on the 9th day ofFebruary, Two Thousand and Seventeen.

Shivani HegdeJagdish - Kumar Singha

Rohit MittalDona Enoca Samanthi Sirimanne

Witness to the Signatures of the said,

Shivani Hegde

Jagdish - Kumar Singha

Rohit Mittal

Dona Enoca Samanthi Sirimanne

Worked onOffice StaffOther Industrial Employees includingEngineering Trade and Drivers

14AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2017

In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands of Makandura, Gonawila Sylvester Jayakody,General Secretary, The Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial & General Workers' Union (CMU), E. J. N. Silva, President TheCeylon Mercantile, Industrial & General Workers' Union (CMU), Nestle Lanka PLC, Kurunegala Factory BranchUnion, W. I. R. Kumara Secretary, The Ceylon Mercantile Industrial and General Workers' Union (CMU) Nestle LankaPLC Kurunegala Factory Branch Union have set their hands for and on behalf of the said Union on the 09th day ofFebruary, Two Thousand Seveteen.

Sylvester JayakodyE. J. N. R. Silva.

W. I. R. Kumara

Witness to the Signatures of the

Sylvester Jayakody

E. J. N. R. Silva

W. I. R. Kumara

09-484

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA