==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

w;s úfYI

wxl 2038$69 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'09'29No. 2038/69 - FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 29, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 3707 — 08 (09/2017)

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Northern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority Statute No. 01 of 2016

NOTICE is hereby given that the Notification published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1979/26 of 09th August 2016regarding the Northern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority Statute No. 01 of 2016 is hereby cancelled.

C. V. K. SIVAGNANAM,Chairman,Northern Provincial Council.

Council Secretariat,A 9 Road,Kaithady,27th September 2016.

10-435/1

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.20172A

1. This Statute may be cited as the Northern Province Road Passengers Transport AuthorityStatute, No. 01 of 2016 and shall come into force on such date as the Governor of the Northern Provincemay give his assent thereto.

2. The objects of this Statute shall be to-

(a)provide a safe and secure transport service for the residents of the NorthernProvince ;

(b)ensure convenient, quality road transport services for passengers ;

(c)provide a comfortable and pleasant travelling environment ;

(d)extend the transport services to all parts of the Northern Province ;

(e)upgrade the infrastructure facilities for passengers transport service ;

(f)make the transport fully accessible for people with mobility impairments ; and

(g)provide an efficient passengers service by providing fair competition between theNational Transport Board and the private sector.

Northern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority Statute No. 01 of 2016

NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Northern Province Road PassengerTransport Authority Statute No. 01 of 2016 on 14th June 2016 and that the Hon. Governor, Northern Province has given hisAssent to it on 29th July 2016.

K. THEIVENDRAM,Secretary,Council Secretariat,Northern Provincial Council.

Council Secretariat,A 9 Road,Kaithady,27th September 2016.

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Road Passenger Transport Authority Statute

A Statute to provide for the establishment of a Road Passengers Transport Authority of the Northern Province for theregulation of Road Passengers Carriage Services and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

Be it enacted by the Northern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

Short title anddate of operation

Objects of theStatute.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD PASSENGERS TRANSPORT AUTHORITY

3. (1) There shall be established for the purpose of this Statute, an Authority called the RoadPassengers Transport Authority (hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”).

(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by this Section be a body Corporate andshall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

4. (1) The administration and management of the affairs of the Authority shall be vested in theBoard of Management of the Authority (hereinafter referred to as “Board”) which shall consist of :-

(a) the following ex-officio members, namely :-

(i) the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject ofTransport or his nominee who shall be not below the rank of Senior AssistantSecretary nominated by the Minister ;

(ii) an Engineer of the Department of Motor Traffic nominated by the Minister ;

(iii) a senior officer nominated by the Provincial Minister assigned the subject ofFinance ;

(iv) Commissioner of Local Government - Northern Province ;

(v) the Commissioner of Motor Traffic ; and

(b) the following members to be appointed by the Minister assigned the subject ofTransport (hereinafter referred to as “appointed members”) –

(i) the President of the Union of the Private Omnibus Investment Companies or amember of the Board of Administration of such Union nominated by such Union ;

(ii) two members who possess recognized qualifications in the fields of Law,Transport, Commerce, Engineering, Education, Finance or Administration ;

(iii) a member who has contributed service to the regulation of traffic and trafficcontrol ;

(iv) a member not below the rank of Manager on the recommendation of the Chairmanof the National Transport Commission established under the provisions of theNational Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 ; and

(v) a member not below the rank of Manager on the recommendation of the Chairmanof the Sri Lanka Transport Board.

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Minister from among the membersof the Board.

Establishment ofthe RoadPassengersTransportAuthority

Constitution ofthe Board ofManagement ofthe Authority

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.20174A

(3) Every appointed member shall unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a term of three years from the date of his appointment and shall unless he hasbeen removed, be eligible for reappointment.

(4) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient to do so, remove from office any appointedmember after assigning reasons therefor.

(5) Any appointed member may at any time resign his office by letter to that effect addressedto the Minister and sent by registered post.

(6) In the event of vacation of office by death, resignation or removal of any appointed member,the Minister may having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) appoint any otherperson to succeed such member. Any member so appointed shall hold office for the unexpired term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

(7) Where an appointed member, by reason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lankafor a period of not less than three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties, it shall be the dutyof such member to inform the Minister in writing of such inability. The Minister may, upon receipt ofsuch information, having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) appoint anotherperson to act his place.

5. (1) the quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be six members.

(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairmanfrom any meeting of the Board an ex-officio member elected by the members present shall preside atsuch meeting.

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board shall be decided by the vote of themajority of members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman shall, inaddition to his vote have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this Section, the Board may regulate the procedurein relation to the meetings of the Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

6. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy in the Board or any defect in the appointment of a member of the Board.

7. The members of the Board shall, with the approval of the Provincial Council be remuneratedin such manner and at such rates as may be determined by the Minister.

8. A person referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 4 shall be disqualified frombeing appointed or continuing as a member of the Board -

(a) if he is or becomes a member of Parliament, any Provincial Council or any localauthority ;

(b) if he has been declared an insolvent or an undischarged bankrupt under any law in SriLanka or any other country ;

(c) if he is under any law inforce in Sri Lanka or any other country found or declared to beof unsound mind ;

(d) if he is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude and punishable withimprisonment for a term not less than six months ;

Quorum andmeetings of theBoard.

Acts orproceedings ofthe Board deemednot to be invalidby reason of anyvacancy.

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Board.

Disqualificationfrom being amember of theBoard.

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

(e) if he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by a Court of SriLanka or any other country ;

(f) if he has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the dischargeby him of his functions as a member of the Board ; or

(g) if he uses sanctions in improper manner in the discharge of his functions as a memberof the Board.

9. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of such person as the Board may decidefrom time to time.

(2) The seal of the Authority may be altered in such manner as may be determined by theBoard.

(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any instrument or document except withthe sanction of the Board and in the presence of two members of the Board who shall sign the instrumentor document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a record of the instruments and documents to which the seal ofthe Authority has been affixed.

PART II

POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF THE AUTHORITY

10. The powers, functions and duties of the Authority shall be-

(a) to monitor the availability of omnibus services of an acceptable quality to meetthe passenger transport needs within the Northern Province and to draw up time tablesand take necessary steps to ensure the compliance with such time tables by omnibusoperators ;

(b) to issue general and special directions to the omnibus operators for efficient and safetransport ;

(c) to issue or renew passenger service permits authorizing the use of omnibuses for thecarriage of passengers ;

(d) to prescribe the conditions for the issuance of passenger service permits andregistration of omnibus operators ;

(e) to ensure the compliance with the conditions subject to which passenger servicepermits are issued ;

(f) to recommend to certain institutions to issue fitness certificates to the omnibuses ;

(g) to require holders of passenger service permits to furnish such returns and informationas may be required by the Authority ;

(h) to determine and revise from time to time, fees to be levied for issuing, renewing andamending passenger service permits and any other matter relating thereto.

Seal of theAuthority

Powers, functionsand duties of theAuthority

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.20176A

(i) to prescribe matters in respect of destination boards, plates and symbols that shouldbe exhibited in an omnibus used for passenger carriage under the authority of apassenger carriage service permit issued under this Statute ;

(j) to specify the documents to be maintained and the information to be recorded thereinby the drivers and conductors of omnibuses ;

(k) to prescribe matters in respect of standards of quality and condition of fitness to bemaintained by the holder of a permit in an omnibus used for carriage of passengers ;

(l) to determine the records to be maintained in respect of service operating turns of theomnibuses used for the carriage of passengers ;

(m) to determine the records to be submitted to the Authority in respect of any personemployed as a driver and conductor of an omnibus used for carriage of passengers andthe time of commencement and cessation of services, intervals of rest allowed andwages, allowances or fees paid to such persons by the holder of a permit ;

(n) subject to the provisions of any other written law, to enter into, perform and carry outwhether directly or by way of a joint venture with any person in or outisde Sri Lankaall such contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the achievement of theobjects of the Statute ;

(o) to take measures for the prevention of illegal activities in respect of passengertransportation, to establish squads for the purpose of preventing such illegal acts andto prescribe the powers and functions of such squads ;

(p) to charge fees for any services rendered by the Authority ;

(q) to establish training centres in collaboration with companies or organizations engagedwith transport services ;

(r) to conduct awareness programmes for the persons involved in transport services andissue certificates to the participants ;

(s) to appoint, dismiss and to exercise disciplinary control over the employees of theAuthority ;

(t) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge or sell or otherwisedispose of any movable or immovable property ;

(u) to accept gifts, grants, donations or subsidies whether in cash or otherwise and toapply them for the purpose of achieving the objects of the Statute.

Provided that, the Board shall obtain for prior written approval of the Department ofExternal Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance,in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the Authority ; and

(v) do all other things as are necessary or expedient for the proper and effective carryingout of the objects of the Statute.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

PART III

ISSUE OF PASSENGER CARRIAGE PERMIT

11. No person shall use an ominbus for the purpose of regular service or special service originatingwithin the Northern Province for the carriage of passengers for fee or reward except under the authorityof a Passenger Carriage Service Permit (hereinafter referred to as the “permit”) granted by the Authority.

12. Every applicant under Section 11 shall be the registered owner of such omnibus and shallhave the following -

(a) a valid revenue licence for such ombinus ; and

(b) a valid unlimited insurance against third party risks in his name in respect of such omnibus

13. (1) Every application for a permit shall be made to the Authority under the hand of theregistered owner of the omnibus in respect of which the application is made, in such form as may beprescribed, and shall be accompanied by a prescribed fee. The Authority may where necessary, require anapplicant to furnish further information including a criminal record.

(2) Every applicant for a permit shall submit together with the application of the following :

(a) the registration number, seating capacity and the internal height of the omnibus towhich the application relates ;

(b) a copy of the fitness certificate of the omnibus to which the application relates, issuedby an approved institution.

(c) the place of origin, important intermediate place, destination, route number and thedistance of the route ; and

(d) such other particulars as may be required.

(3) Every application submitted under subsection (1) shall contain complete and accurateinformation of all required particulars.

(4) An application found to contain false, misleading or incorrect information or particularsshall be rejected.

14. (1) The Authority may, from time to time, call for tenders to conduct transport services. Thisopportunity shall be specified in a notice which shall be published at least in three local media or by suchother means as are calculated to give best publicity thereto.

(2) The Authority shall, in the notice published under subsection (1) invite companiespossessing such requirements specified in subsection (2) of section 13 to forward their tenders settingout their intention to conduct transport services.

(3) The applicant shall submit the completed tender in relation to a specified route or routeswhich shall be specified in the Notice published under subsection (1).

(4) The Authority shall open all tenders received by the closing date and evaluate therequirements, experience and financial and technical capacity of the applicant.

PassengerCarriage SerivcePermits forRegular Servicesand SpecialServices.

Eligibility for anapplicant.

Application for apermit.

Calling for tendersfor transportservices.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.20178A

(5) The provisions of sections 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 shall mutandismutatis apply to the applicant who submits a tender under this section.

15. (1) The Authority may recommend to certain institution to issue fitness certificates to theomnibus upon the relevant test and examination of such omnibuses.

(2) Upon the recommendation under subsection (1), the Minister shall notify such institutionsas approved institutions for the purpose of issuing fitness certificates.

(3) Every institution notified under this Section shall be registered with the Authority.

16. The Authority shall prior to the issue of permit, take into consideration of the following :

(a) the extent to which the proposed carriage of passengers is necessary or desirable inthe public interest ;

(b) the suitablity of the proposed route or routes ;

(c) the extent to which the needs of the proposed route or routes have already been servedadequately ;

(d) the needs of the area as a whole in relation to traffic including the provision of adequate,suitable and efficient transport services and the co-ordination of all forms of passengertransport, including transport by railway ;

(e) the consideration that wherever any transportation facilities including facilitiesprovided by the railway in any area or in any route are, in the opinion of the Authority,satisfactory and efficient to meet the transporation requirements of the public withinthat area or on that route, it is undesirable to grant a permit authorizing the carriage ofpassengers within the same area or over substantially the same route in competitionwith the said transportation facilities ; and

(f) circumstances that create a reasonable belief in the Authority that granting anotherpermit in respect of a route or routes to an applicant who is already a holder of one ormore permits for the same route or routes may have any undesirable consequences.

17. Upon the satisfaction of the criteria under Section 16, the Authority may give preference toan applicant who resides in the area or district.

18. On the receipt of an application under Section 13, the Authority shall authorize any officerof the Authority to carry out an inspection of the omnibus to which the application relates.

19. The officer authorized under Section 18 shall, upon completion of his inspection submit areport to the Authority, setting out all relevant details on the inspection carried out by him of the omnibus.The report shall include whether the omnibus is fit and proper to provide or to be involved in the provisionof, transport service.

20. Upon the receipt of the report under Section 19, the Authority shall, on the consideration ofthe matters contained in the report and any recommendations, if any, either issue a permit or for reasonsrecorded by him reject a permit without issuing.

21. A permit issued under Section 20, shall -

FitnessCertificate.

Criteria for theissue of a permit.

Preference inissuing permits.

Inspection

Report

Issuance of permit

Form and durationof permit

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

(a) be in such form as the Authority may determine ;

(b) be subject to such terms and conditions as specified in the permit ;

(c) become operative from such date as shall be specified in the permit ; and

(d) unless earlier revoked, be in force for the period as specified in the permit.

22. (1) An application shall be submitted in the prescribed form to the Authority not less thanthirty days prior to the date of expiration of the permit issued under Section 20 for the renewal accompaniedby the prescribed renewal fee.

(2) The Authority may renew a licence on recipt of an application under subsection (1), where-

(a) the holder of a permit has not violated or done anything in contravention of the termsand conditions of the permit issued ;

(b) the holder of a permit has not contravened any provisions of this Statute or anyregulation or directions made or issued thereunder ; or

(c) the holder of a permit has not contravened any provisions of any written law relatingto transport.

23. (1) A permit issued under Section 20 may be suspended or cancelled by the Authority, if -

(a) it is found that the permit had been obtained by providing false, misleading or inaccurateinformation ;

(b) the driver or conductor has contravened any provisions of this Statute or any regulationor directions made or issued thereunder ;

(c) it becomes necessary in the best interests of the public ;

(d) the omnibus becomes a danger to the safety of the passengers ;

(e) the registered owner or driver or conductor has wilfully failed to comply with thedirections.

(2) Where a permit issued is suspended or cancelled as the case may be, under this Section, itshall be the duty of the Authority to forthwith inform the holder of a permit of such suspension orcancellation, by a written communication sent under registered post to the address given by the holder ofa permit.

24. Where an application for the issue or renewal of a permit under Section 13 of Section 22, asthe case may be, has been refused, reasons for such refusal shall be recorded by the Authority. It shall bethe duty of the Authority to inform the person making such application, by a written communication sentunder registered post to the address appearing in the application, of the reasons for such refusal.

25. (1) Any person aggrieved by a decision refusing the issue or renewal, as the case may be, ofa permit or the suspension or cancellation of a permit issued, may, within thirty days of the date of receiptof the written communication informing such person, of the refusal or the suspension or cancellation, asthe case may be, appeal against such decision to the Minister.

Renewal of apermit

Suspension orcancellation of apermit.

Reasons to becommunicated

Appeals

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.201710A

(2) Upon the receipt of appeal under subsection (1) the Minister shall constitute a committeeconsisting of two officers of the Ministry of Transport and a person who shall be an Attorney-at-Law,nominated by the Minister and refer the appeal to the Committee.

(3) Where the Committee considers it appropriate, it may hold such inquiry, prior to arrivingat any decision on any appeal made to it under subsection (2).

(4) The decision on any appeal submitted under subsection (2) shall be made within sixty daysof the receipt of such appeal and the person making such appeal shall be informed of the decision madeon it, forthwith and such decision shall be reported to the Minister.

(5) The Minister shall, upon the receipt of the report under subsection (4) take necessarysteps to implement the decision.

(6) The decision of the Committee on any appeal made under this Section shall be final.

26. (1) Permit is non transferable. However any holder of a permit who desires to transfer thepermit to another person or the route shall apply to the Authority.

(2) The Authority shall, upon being satisfied allow such transfer with or without conditions.

27. It shall be duty of the holder of a permit to notify the Authority of changes in circumstancesrelating to or affecting the provision of transport.

28. Every permit granted under Section 20 shall have attached thereto all such conditions as maybe determined by the Authority for securing the safety and convenience of the public. Such conditionsmay inter alia include conditions requiring.

(a) that the omnibus used under the the Authority of a permit shall be operated on suchroute or routes as are specified in the permit, and in accordance with the time tablespecified therein ;

(b) that copies of the time table and the fare table shall be carried and kept exhibited in theomnibus used under the authority of the permit ;

(c) that the omnibuses shall travel on the route to which the permit relates ;

(d) that the omnibus used under the authority of the permit shall be maintained at all timein a fit and serviceable condition ;

(e) that the requirements of any written law with respect to the time for which drivers orconductors or omnibuses may remain continuously on duty and to their hours of workor rest and to their wages are complied with, in the case of the driver and conductor ofthe omnibus used under the authority of the permit ;

(f) that the conductor shall issue a ticket to the passenger ;

(g) that the conductor shall not allow the number of passengers exceeding the maximumnumber of passengers specified in the permit therefor ;

(h) that the conductor shall not charge any fare exceeding the fare table ;

Permittransferable.

Duty of a holderof a permit.

Conditions to beattached topermits underSection 20.

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

(i) that in the case of breakdown of such omnibus, the conductor shall refund fare in prorata basis ;

(j) that the driver and the conductor engaged in the omnibus used under the authority ofthe permit shall at all times be attentive and take appropriate steps to avoid or preventsuch circumstances as affecting the wellbeing or convenience of the passengerstravelling in the omnibus ;

(k) that any directive concerning operation of a scheme of concessionary season ticketsshall be complied with ;

(l) that where necessary, the holder of the permit shall sign an agreement with the Authorityto ensure a satisfactory and efficient service to the passengers in accordance with theconditions stipulated ;

(m) that the driver and the conductor engaged in the omnibus used under the authority ofthe permit shall at all times be kind and courteous towards the passengers ; and

(n) that the driver and the conductor shall wear uniform.

29. The Authority may, at the time of the grant of the permit specify therein, by reference to itsdistinctive number and such other particulars as it may consider necessary, the omnibus, the use of whichis authorized by the permit.

30. The Authority may issue directions to any person to who has valid Passenger Carriage ServicePermit and the person to whom any such directions are issued shall, within the Northern Province complywith such directions within such time as shall be specified therein.

31. (1) Where any person who intends to engage himself in a passenger carriage service withinthe Northern Province buys an omnibus in respect of which a permit has already been issued, he shallforthwith inform the Authority of the change of ownership of such omnibus and shall abide by any directivegiven by the Authority to him in respect of such omnibus.

(2) Where an operator who has obtained a permit sells or alienates the omnibus owned byhim, he shall have the permit amended to another omnibus through the Authority within 60 days. It is notso amended, such permit shall be deemed to be cancelled.

32. (1) The holder of a permit shall, within fourteen days of any change in the particulars statedin his application for the permit, inform the Authority in writing of such change and obtain its decision inwriting thereon.

(2) Where an omnibus having a valid permit is bought or assigned unto himself by an operatorand a new passenger service permit is obtained, the operator shall not be entitled to any right especially ofthe route or of the time table given in the passenger service permit issued earlier to the same omnibus.

33. It shall be the duty of the holder of a permit to display such permit conspicuously on thewindscreen of the omnibus in respect of which the permit has been issued.

Specification ofauthorizedomnibus in thepermit

Power of theAuthority to issuedirections toothers

New owner of anomnibus to informthe Authority ofchange of theownership

Holder of a permitto inform theAuthority of anychange inparticulars

Permit to bedisplayed on thewindscreen

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.201712A

PART IV

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

34. (1) There shall be appointed by the Minister with the concurrence of the Board, a person tobe the General Manager of the Authority, who shall be its Chief Executive Officer.

(2) The General Manager shall be entitled to be present at all meetings of the Board and tospeak at such meetings, but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meetings.

(3) The General Manager shall, subject to the general direction and control of the Board, beresponsible for the conduct of all affairs of the Authority, including the administrative control of theofficers and employees of the Authority.

(4) The General Manager shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the Boardin consultation with the Minister.

(5) The Minister may with the concurrence of the Board and for reasons assigned thereforeremove from office the General Manager appointed under subsection (1).

35. The General Manager may with the approval of the Board and whenever he considers itnecessary to do so, delegate to any officer of the Authority, any function or duty imposed on or assignedto him by this Statute and such officer shall discharge and perform such function or duty, subject to thedirection and control of the General Manager.

36. Whenever the General Manager is by reason of illness or absence from Sri Lanka or for anyother cause unable to discharge or perform any of his functions or duties, the Minister may with theconcurrence of the Board, appoint any other senior officer of the Authority to act in his place during suchabsence.

37. (1) The Board may with the concurrence of the General Manager or Secretary to the Ministryappoint such officers and other employees as it considers necessary for the efficient exercise, dischargeand performance of its powers, functions and duties under this Statute.

(2) The officers and other employees appointed under subsection (1) shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates and shall be subject to such conditions of service, as may be determinted bythe Board.

(3) The disciplinary control of the staff appointed under subsection (1) shall, subject to theterm provided by the Board or provisions of Establishment Code be exercised by the General Manager orSecretary to the Ministry.

38. (1) At the request of the Board, any officer in the public service or Provincial Public Servicemay, with the consent of that officer and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration or Governor of the Northern Province as the case may be, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority for such period as may be determined by the Board or with likeconsent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service or Provincial public service or Provincial publicservice is temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of subsection (2) of section14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and inrelation to him.

General Managerof the Authority

General Managermay delegate hisfunctions.

Temporaryabsence of theGeneral Manager

Appointment,remuneration anddisciplinarycontrol of staff ofthe Authority

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theAuthority

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently appointed to the staff of the Authority,the provisions of subsection (3) of Section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of1991, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to him.

(4) Where any public officer is appointed to the Authority under subsections (1), (2) and (3)the provisions relating to the appointment to the service of government and province shall be considered.

(5) Where the Board employs any person who has agreed to serve the Government or NorthernProvince as the case may be, for a specified period under any agreement, any period of service to theBoard by that person shall be regarded as service to the Government or Northern Province as the casemay be, for the purpose of discharging the obligations of such agreement.

PART V

FUND

39. (1) The Authority shall have its own fund

(2) There shall be paid into such Fund -

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon from time to time by the NorthernProvincial Council for the use of the Authority ;

(b) all such sums of money granted by the Government ;

(c) all such sums of money or revenue received by way of charges for services rendered bythe Authority or on behalf of the Authority or by an authorized agent for any certificateissued or approval granted by the Authority as provided for in this Statute ; and

(d) all other sums otherwise accuring to the credit of the Fund of the Authority under thisStatute or by any other written law.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of money required to defray the expenditureincurred by the Authority in the exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, functions and duties.

40. The financial year of the Authority shall be the calender year.

41. (1) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the assets and liabilities,income and expenditure and all other transactions of the Authority.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution and any financial rule in force for thetime being shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

42. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971, shall mutatis mutandis, applyto and in respect of the financial control and accounts of the Authority.

Fund of theAuthority

Financial year

Accounts andaudit

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.201714A

PART VI

OFFENCES AND PENALTY

43. Any person who-

(a) fails to comply with any direction issued to, or requirement imposed on, such personby the Board ;

(b) resists or obstructs any person authorized in writing by the Authority in the exerciseby such person of any powers conferred on him by this Statute ;

(c) omits or refuses to furnish any return, information or written explanation when requiredto do so by the Authority ;

(d) furnishes any return, information or written explanation to the Authority containinginformation which to his knowledge is false or incorrect ; or

(e) acts in contravention of any of the provisions of this Statute or any regulation madethereunder ;

commits an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment for aperiod not exceeding two years or both such fine and imprisonment.

44. Any person who engages in passenger carriage without a valid permit issued for that purposecommits an offence and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a finenot exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or bothsuch fine and imprisonment, commits same offence in the case of a second time to a fine not exceedingten thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period of not exceeding one year or both such fine andimprisonment, or in the case of a subsequent same offence, to a fine not exceeding fifteen thousandrupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or both such fine and imprisonment.

45. If a conductor of an omnibus charges excess fare from a passenger, he commits an offenceunder this Statute and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine notexceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months or both suchfine and imprisonment, in addition to imposing punishment, order him to refund such excess moneycharged from the passenger.

46. Any conductor of an omnibus who-

(a) allows any passenger to get into or get down from any omnibus at any place other thana bus stand ;

(b) shouts and makes a noise in a manner to cause nuisance ; or

(c) fails or refuses to issue a ticket to the passenger having receipt of fare.

commits an offence and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, beliable to a fine not exceeding three thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period notexceeding six months or both such fine and imprisonment.

Offences

Engaging inpassengercarriage without avalid permit

Refunding theexcess charge.

Commission of anoffence byconductor.

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

47. (1) Where a passenger -

(a) fails to keep the ticket issued to him until the end of the journey ;

(b) fails to produce such ticket whenever required to do so by a person authorized by theBoard

he shall be liable to a penalty of five hundred rupees and in addition to that, shall also pay anamount double the value of the ticket for the distance to which he travelled to a personauthorized by the Board.

(2) Such passenger who fails to pay such amount mentioned in subsection (1) commits anoffence and shall, on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceedingone thousand five hundred rupees in addition to the payment for the double the value of the ticket to thedestination to which he travelled.

48. When an offence under this Statute is committed by a body of persons, then-

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every person who at the time of thecommission of the offence was a director, general manager, secretary or other similarofficer of that body corporate ; or

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every person who at the time of the commission ofthe offence was a partner of that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves that the offence was committedwithout his knowledge or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to prevent thecommission of the offence as he ought to have exercised having regard to the nature of hisfunctions and all the circumstances.

PART VII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

49. Where a permit is issued to an omnibus to provide transport services on a route, under theprovisions of this Statute, the holder of the permit of such omnibus shall not use such omnibus for anytransport service other than specified in the permit.

50. The Authority shall not issue another permit to the omnibus to which a permit has beenalready issued to provide transport service on a route.

51. The Authority may give notice in writing to the holder of a permit and require him to furnish,within the time specified in such notice, any such return, information or explanation the Authority mayrequire for, the purpose of exercising its powers under this Statute and it shall be the duty of such holderof a permit to comply with the requirement of such notice.

52. The Minister may submit at appropriate times proposals and recommendations for approvalby the Northern Provincial Council to provide facilities, in keeping with the general policy of the State,for procurement of omnibuses and for tax concessions, for the benefit of the passenger transport services.

53. Any person authorized in writing in that behalf by the Authority may at any time-

(a) enter any omnibus used for carrying passengers for the purpose of ascertaining whetherthe use of such omnibus is authorized by a permit or whether the conditions attached

Offences bybodies of persons

Restriction on theholder of a permit

One permit for aomnibus

Returns, etc.,

Recommendationsof the Minister

Power to enterany omnibus etc.,

Commission of anoffence bypassenger

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.201716A

to such permit or any directions issued are being complied with or whether the otherprovisions of this Statute are being complied with ;

(b) require the production by the driver of such omnibus of the permit issued in respectof that omnibus or the log sheet or any other document relevant to the omnibus ; and

(c) take into custody such log sheet or other document or obtain a copy thereof ;

54. (1) The Board shall have the power to issue directions and make arrangements through therelevant local authority or by such other means as considered appropriate to establish, remove maintain,improve or change, in any manner, the location of the bus-stands and bus halting places within the limitsof the Northern Province in the interest of the passengers.

(2) The Board shall have the power to enforce the time tables for the operation of omnibusesfrom bus-stands or halting places and to supervise or to make appropriate arrangements to supervise thestaff engaged in the management of the time table and to issue directives and instructions to such staff.

(3) The General Manager or Secretary to the Ministry may, with the concurrence of the Boardappoint, and exercise disciplinary control including the dismissal, over the staff engaged in the managementof time tables for the operation of omnibuses.

(4) The Board may issue directions for the transport service to school children and ruralareas.

55 (1) The Board may subject to such conditions as may be specified in writing, delegate to theChairman or member of the Board any of its powers, fucnctions or duties under this Statute, and theChairman or such member shall exercise, perform or discharge such power, function or duty subject toany special or general directions issued by the Board.

(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made under subsection (1), the Board may exercise,perform or discharge any such power, function or duty so delegated.

56. The Minister may, from time to time issue such general or special directions to the Boardrelating to the exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functions and duties under this Statuteand it shall be the duty of the Board to comply with such directions.

57. (1) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Minister in every year a detailed report of theactivities relating to the previous year.

(2) The report under subsection (1) shall be forwarded to the Minister on or before the thirtiethof June every year.

(3) The Minister shall present such report to the Northern Provincial Council.

58. All members of the Board and officers, servants and agents of the Authority shall be deemedto be public officers within the meaning and for the purpose of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

59. The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the meaning of the BriberyAct, (Chapter 26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

Board may issuedirections oncertain matters

Delegation ofpowers, functionsand duties of theAuthority

Directions of theMinister

Annual report

All members ofthe Board andAuthority deemedto be publicofficers

Authority deemedto be a Scheduledinstitution

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

60. (1) All expenses incurred by the Board in any suit or prosecution brought by or against it beforeany court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and only costs paid to or recovered by the Boardin any such suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Board, General Manager, any officer or otheremployee of the Authority, in any suit or prosecution brought by or against such person before any courtin respect of any Act which is done or purported to be done by such person under the Statute shall, it thecourt holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, unless suchexpenses are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

61. The Board may from time to time issue guidelines to provide a safe efficient and securedtransport service for the residents of the Northern Province and incomers including.

(a) the formation and registration of association of owners of private omnibuses, of ownersof three wheelers, of owners of light vehicles, of owners of heavy vehicles and ofowners of goods carriers ;

(b) the formation and monitoring the federation of vehicle owners ; and

(c) the assistance to formulate their constitution and rules subject to the provisions ofthis Statute.

62. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to theprinciples and provisions of this Statute, in particular in respect of all or any of the following matters :-

(a) the procedure to be followed, forms to be used and fees to be paid in obtaining,renewing, transferring or amending a permit ;

(b) the plates and marks to be carried on omnibuses used under the authority of a permit ;

(c) the documents to be carried by drivers and conductors of omnibuses used under theauthority of a permit and the particulars to be entered thereon ;

(d) the standards to be observed by any person using an omnibus under the authority of apermit and the prohibition of acts or omissions in contravention of such standards ;

(e) the records to be kept in respect of journeys performed by an omnibus used under theauthority of a permit ;

(f) the records to be kept by a holder of a permit in respect of the persons employed bysuch holder as drivers or conductors of the omnibuses used under the authority ofsuch permit and the times of the commencement and cessation of work by such personsand the intervals of rest taken by them ;

(g) the preservation of records kept under this Statute, the inspection of such records byany officer authorized by the Authority and the production for the purpose of suchinspection of such records on demand made by such Authority.

(h) the procedure for the conduct of business of, and the procedure for the discharge of thefunction by, the holders of permits in the interests of passenger transport service ;

(i) a scheme of concessionary tickets or season tickets formulated in consultation withholders of permits ;

Expenses to bepaid out of theFund of theAuthority

Guidelines

Regulations

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.201718A

(j) the organization and management of bus-stands and bus halting places, particularly forthe co-ordination and scheduling of bus operations, time-keeping and orderly andequitable use of facilities.

(k) determination of qualifications and periodical checks of physical fitness of driversand conductors engaged in omnibuses under the authority of a permit ;

(l) measures to be taken in emergency or critical situations or when it is deemed that aserious break-down is imminent in passenger transport services in any area or on anyroute within the Northern Province ;

(m) formation of advisory bodies or committees or appointment of members thereto andtheir powers and function for the purposes of advising the Authority on regulating orimproving efficiency in the passenger transport services within the Northern Province,initiation of new services, fares, fees and charges to be levied from passengers andholders of permits, regulation of the number of omnibuses on different routes, ensuringequitable economic viability in maintaining services by the holders of permits and anyother relevant matters ; and

(n) to formulate and enforce regulations to ensure the safety, convenience and comfortof passengers including students, ladies, infants, disables and elders.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister under subsection (1), shall be published in theGazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister under subsection (1) shall within a period of threemonths from the date of its publication in the Gazette be brought before the Northern Provincial Councilfor approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofsuch disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall be deemed to be rescinded, shall bepublished in the Gazette.

63. Every permit issued under Section 24 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of1991 within the Northern Province on the day preceding the date of operation of this Statute, shall, witheffect from the date of operation of the Statute be deemed to be issued under Section 20 of this Statute.

64. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Statute, until the establishment of Authority underSection 3, Minister shall exercise and discharge the powers and functions of the Authority.

65. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires ;

“local authority” shall mean a Municipal Council, Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha ;

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject of Northern Province Transport isassigned ;

Savings

Transitionalprovisions

Interpretation

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017

“omnibus” means a motor coach registered as an omnibus under the Motor Traffic Act andshall be deemed to include a dual-purpose vehicle ;

“passenger” means a person carried in a hiring car or omnibus but does not include thedriver or in the case of an omnibus, the conductor ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under this Statute.

66. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala text of this Statute, the Tamiltext shall prevail.

Tamil text toprevail in the caseof inconsistency

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

10 - 435/2