==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2470$12 - 2026 ckjdß ui 05 jeks i`ÿod - 2026.01.05No. 2470/12 - MONDAY, JANUARY 05, 2026

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

L.D.-B. 1/2015

VETERINARY SURGEONS AND PRACTITIONERS ACT, No. 46 OF 1956

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, Land and Irrigation, upon the recommendation of the Council, under Subsection (1) of section 40 of the Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956 read with paragraph (c) of section 25 of the aforesaid act.

K. D. Lalkantha, Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, Land and Irrigation.

Colombo,19th December, 2025.Regulations

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners (Infamous Conduct) Regulations, No. 1 of 2025.

PART I

Infamous Conduct

2. Any act or omission specified in the First Schedule hereto shall constitute an infamous conduct for the purposes of these regulations.

1A- PG 7452 - 403 (01/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'05Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.20262A

PART II

Manner and procedure of Appointment of Panels of Inquiry

3. The council may, on its own motion or upon receipt of a complaint made to it by any person, inquire into a complaint on infamous conduct of any veterinary surgeon or veterinary Practitioner.

4. The complaint referred to in regulation 3 shall be substantially in the form specified in the Second Schedule hereto and be submitted to the Council.

5. (1) The Council shall, upon receiving a complaint under regulation 4 –

(a) table such complaint at the ensuing council meeting or at a special council meeting summoned for the purpose ; and

(b) appoint, at its own discretion, a panel of inquiry consisting of either three or five members.

(2) Where the Council decides to appoint a panel of inquiry –

(a) consisting of three members, at least one member shall be from among the members of the Council;

(b) consisting of five members, at least two members shall be from among the members of the Council,

and other members shall be veterinary surgeons or veterinary practitioners with minimum ten years of experience as a veterinary surgeon or veterinary practitioner:

Provided however that, where the Council deems it appropriate, it may appoint to the panel of inquiry, any other person with such experience or knowledge in any other specific discipline as may be determined by the Council, in place of such other veterinary surgeon or veterinary practitioner.

PART III

Inquiries and Decisions of the Council

6. Every panel of inquiry appointed under regulation 5 –

(a) shall obtain or call for information or documents from the veterinary surgeon or veterinary practitioner alleged to have committed the infamous conduct (hereinafter referred to as the "veterinary surgeon or practitioner”) or from any other person relevant to the inquiry;

(b) shall inform the veterinary surgeon or practitioner to appear before it and show cause as to why any action under regulation 9 may not be taken;

(c) may, upon reasonable notice and during reasonable hours, conduct inspections of any premises where such infamous conduct has occurred or is believed to have occurred subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Council.

7. (1) Every panel of inquiry appointed under regulation 5 shall complete all hearing and inspections with regard to its inquiries within three months from date of its appointment, unless an extension is granted by the Council on valid reasons submitted in writing by the respective panel of inquiry.

(2) The decisions of each panel of inquiry shall be determined by a majority vote.

(3) The final report endorsed by each panel of inquiry shall be submitted to the Council within one month after the

completion of hearings and inspections.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'05Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2026

3A

8. Every panel of inquiry shall, in its report, make a recommendation as to –

(a) whether the veterinary surgeon or practitioner is guilty of such infamous conduct or not;

(b) the penalty to be imposed on the veterinary surgeon or practitioner, if found guilty;

(c) any measures to be taken to prevent the recurrence of such infamous conduct.

9. (1) The Council may, at a meeting of the Council conducted in accordance with the provisions of section 18 of the Act, and after taking into consideration the recommendation of the respective panel of inquiry and where the Council determines that the veterinary surgeon or practitioner is guilty of such infamous conduct, -

(a) order the veterinary surgeon or practitioner to appear before the Council and may issue an oral reprimand;

(b) issue a reprimand in writing; or

(c) impose any one or more of the following:-

(i) suspension of registration of the veterinary surgeon or practitioner for a period determined by the Council; or

(ii) expunge the name of the veterinary surgeon or practitioner from the Register.

(2) The Council shall, prior to taking any action under sub-regulation (1), consider the nature and gravity of such infamous conduct.

10. The Council shall bear all expenses incurred in conducting inquiries under these regulations:

Provided that, if the Council considers it as reasonable and necessary, it may charge the full amount of the cost or part of the cost from the veterinary surgeon or practitioner if he is found guilty, in addition to any action taken against him under regulation 9.

11. For the purposes of these regulations-

“Act” means the Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956;

“Council” shall have the same meaning assigned to it by the Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956;

“Register” means the register maintained under section 9 of the Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956;

“veterinary practitioner” means any person registered as a veterinary practitioner under the Veterinary Sur-geons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956; and

“veterinary surgeon” means any person registered as a veterinary surgeon under the Veterinary Surgeons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956.

FIRST SCHEDULE[Regulation 2) INFAMOUS CONDUCT OF A VETERINARY SURGEON OR PRACTITIONER

(a) Application of substandard skills and provision of substandard care in the practice;

(b) Unbefitting the status as a veterinary surgeon or practitioner;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'05Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.20264A

(c) Discredit or attempt to discredit the profession of veterinary surgeons and practitioners or the reputation of the Coun-cil;

(d) Discredit or attempt to discredit the professional reputation or skill of any other veterinary surgeon or practitioner;

(e) Provision of incomplete, improper or erroneous technical instruction or information;

(f) Any act or omission that may bring, in the opinion of the Council, unnecessary pain or delay in providing relief to an animal;

(g) Allowing or permitting any other person to perform any procedure or practice in contravention of the provisions of the Act or these regulations; and

(h) Displaying gross negligence in the performance of his professional work.

SECOND SCHEDULE [Regulation 4) COMPLAINT ON INFAMOUS CONDUCT OF A VETERINARY SURGEON OR PRACTITIONER

1. General Information of the Complainant

(a)Full Name/ Name with Initials(b)Address(c)Telephone No.(d)E-mail Address 2. Against Whom

(a)Full Name/ Name with Initials(b)Address

3. Complaint

(a)Date/s Incident/s(b)Complaint in Brief (if Necessary, as an Attachment)(c)Evidence if any(if Necessary, as an Attachment)(d)Other Witnesses if anyName/sAddress/es

.............................................. .................. Signature of the Complainant Date

EOG 01 - 0037

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.