==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1921$66 - 2015 cQ,s ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'07'03No.1921/66 -FRIDAY JULY 03, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Western Provincial Pawn Brokers' Statute No. 01 of 2015

I, Prasanna Ranathunga, Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, LocalGovernment and Provincial Administration, Manpower and Employment, Engineering Services and Infromation of theWestern Province Provincial Council, hereby declare that Pawnbrokers' Statute No. 01 of 2015, Western ProvincialCouncil, do by this order with effect from 09.06.2015 as Assent by the Honorable Governor of Western Province.

PRASANNA RANATHUNGA,Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,Manpower and Employment, Engineering Services andInfromation of the Western Province Provincial Council

03rd July 2015,Chief Ministry Office,Shrawasthi Mandiraya,Colombo 07.

PAWN BROKERS' STATUTE OF THE WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL No. 01 OF 2015

A statute to regulate the pawnbrokers’ business, except the pawnbroker business conducted by a bank; and toallocate provisions for matters incidental and related thereto, also to repeal the Pawnbrokers’ Statute No. 03 of 2001.Provisions of this statute are inconsistent with the provisions of the Pawnbrokers’ Ordinance No. 13 of 1942.

Be it enforced by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka asfollows -

Short title and dateof enforcement.

CHAPTER I

GENERAL

1. This statute may be cited as the Pawnbrokers’ Statute of the Western Province ProvincialCouncil No. 01 of 2015 and it shall come into force from the date of assent of the Governorof the Western Province.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.20152A

CHAPTER II

PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM ENGAGING IN THE PAWNBROKERS’ BUSINESS

2. A person-

1. Not being a citizen of Sri Lanka; or2. Is a foreign company; or3. Is a foreign business institution; or4. Has become an offender or non-qualifier due to certain disability stated in Section10 of this statute;

he shall not conduct the pawnbrokers’ business on the prescribed day or subsequently.

CHAPTER III

REGISTRATION

3.(1) By every person intending to obtain Pawnbrokers’ Licenses under this statute shallapply for registration prior to initiating his business and obtain registration forthat from the Commissioner of Revenue.

(2) Where such application is made, the applicant shall present an affidavit to the RevenueCommissioner to confirm that certain illegal and/or certain unlawful action was notcommitted and/or not been convicted for certain such action until the time ofapplying; in case the applicant is a person convicted by a court or a person having acase against him pending at courts, all the details pertaining to the said lawsuit shallbe presented to the Commissioner of Revenue by way of an affidavit.

CHAPTER IV

OBTAINING LICENSES

4(I) No person shall maintain a pawnbrokers’ business unless he bears a license issuedseparately by the Commissioner of Revenue on behalf of every business center and/or branch engaging in pawnbrokers’ business.

(2) Every license issued under above Sub-section (I) shall conform to the format “a”stated in the First Schedule of this document.

(3) Every license issued under above Sub-section (I) shall be valid only for the businessplace stated therein and for a period of one calendar year.

5. One copy of the license issued under Sub-section (I) of the above Section 4 shall be sentby the Commissioner of Revenue to the Officer-in-charge of the Police of the area wherethe pawnbrokers’ business relevant to that license is conducted.

6. A license issued under Sub-section (I) of above Section 4, be it relevant to certainpawnbroker business, if transferred to other person without a written approval of theCommissioner of Revenue it shall be considered as null and void.

7.(I) Every person who desire to obtain a license to carryon pawnbroker business shallforward an application in accordance to the format prescribed by the Commissionerof Revenue and accompanied by:

Registrationcompulsory prior toinitiating business

Pawnbrokers’ toobtain a license .

A copy of thelicense to be sent tothe Officer-in-Chargeof the Police

Transferring licensewithout priorapproval of RevenueCommissioner to beinvalid

Applying for alicense

Pawnbrokers’business beingprohibited for certainpersons

An affidavit to beforwarded to theCommissioner ofrevenue

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(a) An affidavit that he has not committed an illegal act and/or unlawful act up tothe time of applying for license and/or that he has not been convicted of suchan offence or default; or in case the applicant is a person convicted by a courtof law or a person having a case against him pending at courts, an affidavitcontaining all the details pertaining to the said lawsuit; and

(b) Business Names Registration Certificate; or in case it being a company,registration certificate under Company Registration Act and Articles ofAssociation: if there is any,

(c) Along with the annual accounts reports to be forwarded according to Section8 of this .statute, where a pawnbroker maintains more than one pawnbrokercenter or more than one branch of the same, separate in respect of each centeror each branch separately.

(d) A certified copy of the insurance certificate obtained as per Section 27 ofthis statute; and

(e) An instrument drafted as per provisions of Sub-section (1) of Section 43 ofthis statute.

(2) A pawnbroker shall forward an application to obtain a license for pawnbroker businessin respect of succeeding calendar year prior to two (02) months of the date onwhich the current license is to be expired.

(3) At the registration of the application forwarded for maintaining a pawn business, aregistration fee as determined by the Minister for that purpose payable according toprovisions of Section 53 shall be paid as the relevant registration fee. In addition,amount specified under Sub-section 9 (2) shall also be deposited subject to theprovisions stated under Sub-section 9 (3).

(4) Where the annual license is issued to a pawnbroker who carried on a pawnbrokerbusiness without renewing the annual license on the due date, registration fee andthe relevant license fee for every year that he carried out the pawnbroker businesswithout a license and a demurrage charge of 10% percent from the relevant licensefee for each month in which the pawnbroker business was conducted without alicense, shall be charged.

(5) Where the annual license is issued to a pawnbroker who carried on a pawnbrokerbusiness without obtaining the annual license, registration fee and the relevant licensefee for every year that he carried out the pawnbroker business without a license anda demurrage charge of 20% percent from the relevant license fee for each month inwhich the pawnbroker business was conducted without a license, shall be charged.

(6) Where an applicant has fulfilled the requirements under this Statute and regulationsenforced under the same for obtaining a license and if he is not a non-qualifier, theCommissioner of Revenue shall not refuse to issue him a license.

(7) Where certain person has forwarded an application to obtain a license to carry onpawnbroker business, in case a license is not issued, the Commissioner of Revenueshall inform the applicant his decision along with the reasons for refusal to issue alicense, prior to lapse of 30 days of receiving the said request.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.20154A

8. A pawnbroker applying for a license in respect of any calendar year shall forward to theCommissioner of Revenue, annual accounts related to his pawn business of the immediatelypreceding financial year.

9.(1) Any person who is to be prohibited from carrying on a pawnbroker business due toreasons of enforcing provisions of Sub-section (2) of this Statute, a license to carryon a pawnbroker business shall not be issued on the due date or thereafter and anylicense issued to such person due to an error or any other reason shall be treated asnull and void for all purposes.

(2) Annual license fees payable for a license to be issued and the amount of securitypayable by a licensee shall be determined, as per provisions of Section 53, bydirections of the Minister published in the Gazette from time to time.

(3) Amount or amounts of Security payable by a licensee as informed by theCommissioner of Revenue as per above Section (2) shall be credited to a depositaccount of Provincial Council a specified State Bank by the licensee himself. Amountin deposit and/or interest thereon shall not be paid to the depositor except on closureor conveyance of business. However, if there is any amount payable to a pawner orpawners of articles by the licensee, such amount shall be deducted from the securitydeposit and interest, and paid.

10. A person applying for a licencse to conduct a pawnbroker business :

(a) if such person is convicted on any offence punishable under provisions of this Statuteor provisions of Chapter XI,XIII, XVII or XVIII of the Penal Code, or under provisionsof Weights and Measures Ordinance in any occasion within . five years immediatelyprior to the date of making an application to carry on a pawnbroker business; and /or

(b) if he has not produced documents required under provisions of Section 7(1) of thisStatute; and/or

(c) if he has not produced annual statement of accounts required under Section 8 of thisstatute; and/or

(d) if a license issued under this statute or under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance is cancelledunder Section 11 of this statute; and/or

(e) if he is a person whose name is published in the Government Gazette according toSection 12(2) herein; and/or

(f) if he is an auctioneer ;

such person shall not be issued with a license by the Commissioner of Revenue toconduct a pawnbroker business.

11.(1) If the Commissioner of Revenue is satisfied after an inspection that a person holdinga license under Section 4 of this Statute has acted in contravention of this Statute orregulations enforced under this Statute in respect of his business as a pawnbrokerduring the period of validity of license, such person’s license may be cancelled.

However, the licensee shall be informed about such action before cancelling thelicense and he shall be given 30 days time to present matters against such decision.

Ordering license feesand security

Refusing issuance ofa license

Cancellation of alicense

Annual accounts tobe forwarded whenapplying for alicense

Prohibition oflicense issuance tocertain persons

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(2) Where a pawnbroker, and/or any of his servant and/or agent is convicted by courts inrespect of an offence under this statute and/or in respect of certain fraud committedin his business and/or in respect of knowingly accepting smuggled articles, thelicense of that pawnbroker shall be annulled by the Commissioner of Revenue.

12.The Commissioner of Revenue, by way of a notification in Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish newspapers shall publish;

(I) The name of every pawnbroker, name of his business and the address where the saidbusiness is conducted in case where the period of validity of an annual license ofcertain licensee’s has exceeded and no license has been issued to the successiveyear;

(2) Name of the person, private address, name of business, address of where the saidbusiness was conducted in every occasion of being convicted under Section 37 ofthis Statute.

CHAPTER V

CONDITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY THE LICENSEES

13. Every pawnbroker who intends to be absent from Sri Lanka from any period exceeding 03months shall give written notice of the intentions to travel abroad to the Commissioner ofRevenue. Further, having nominated a person who is entitled under this statute to carry outthat pawnbroker business and to act for him on his behalf during his absence in Sri Lanka,shall obtain the written approval of the Commissioner of Revenue with regard to that.

14. No pawnbroker carrying out pawnbroker business shall act as or carry on the business ofan auctioneer.

15. Every pawnbroker shall-

(l) Keep exhibited in legible characters over the outer door of his shop or place ofbusiness, the name of his business, registered license number and the word“Pawnbroker” in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,

(2) Further; Keep exhibited in a conspicuous place of his business place, so as to beclearly visible. and be legible by every person visiting such place, a notice in Sinhala,Tamil and English languages containing particulars set out in the 2nd Schedule herein.

16. Where every person engaged in the business of pawning is required under this Statute toenter any particulars in any book, form or document such particulars shall be entered inthe languages of Sinhala or Tamil. In addition to that such details should also be entered inEnglish.

17. Every pawnbroker shall keep and use in his business a Pledge Book, as set out in form “B”and a Sales Book of pledges as set out in form “c” of the First Schedule herein.

18.(1) Every pawn ticket shall be written and signed in original and two counterfoils as setout in form “D” of the First Schedule shown herein and in accordance with thedirections contained in that form.

The name andaddress of licenseescontravening theregulations andconditions of thestatute to bepublished in Gazetteand newspapers

Notifying aboutpawnbrokers’absence from SriLanka

Pawnbroker not toact as an auctioneer

Languages to beused in enteringparticulars

Pawn tickets andpawning to take place

Books to be kept bypawnbrokers

Displaying thebusiness Name,License No. anddetails of SecondSchedule by apawnbroker

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.20156A

(2) The particulars stated in the second Schedule shall be printed legibly in Sinhala,Tamil and English languages on the back side of the original of every pawn ticket.

(3) Where a pledge is pawned the pawn ticket relating to the pledge shall bear the stampduty to the prescribed value in the ticket. The expense to be incurred in providingsuch stamp duty shall be borne by the pawnbroker.(4) No any articles shall be or be deemed to be taken in pawn unless and until -

a) The pawner has signed the pawn ticket ;

b) The pawnbroker has signed the pawn ticket and has given the same to the pawner;

19. No pawnbroker shall, in respect of a loan on a pledge, charge interest at a rate exceedingthe rates specified in the second Schedule.

Provided however, where certain tax is payable in respect of a loan given on a pledge,nothing in the preceding provisions of this Section shall be deemed to prohibit thepawnbrokers from recovering such tax from the pawner. In this section “pledge” includesa pledge which has been pawned and not been redeemed before the prescribed date.

CHAPTER VI

PLEDGES

20. Every pledge shall be redeemable within a period of 24 months (hereinafter in this Statutereferred to as the “period of redemption”) from the day of pawning exclusive of that day.

21. Notwithstanding anything stated in Section 20 of this Statute to the contrary, every pledgeshall continue to be redeemable until it is disposed of as provided under Section 29 of thisStatute, although the period of redemption as expired.

22.(1) The pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge if he surrenders to the pawn brokeroriginal of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge and proves his identity by signingon the original ticket in the presence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.

(2) A person other than the pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge. if such personsurrenders to the pawnbroker the original of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge,duly signed by the pawner, and if such person proves his identity and signs theoriginal pawn ticket in the presence of the pawnbroker, or his agent or servant

(3) Where by reason of the death or of legal disability of the pawner, the holder of theoriginal of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge, claims to be entitled to redeem thepledge, but is unable to surrender to the pawnbroker the original of the pawn ticketrelating to that pledge duly signed by pawner, shall be entitled to redeem such pledgeif such holder of the original of the pawn ticket surrenders the same together with anaffidavit made properly before a Justice of Peace or Commissioner of Oaths by saidholder and person standing as witness on holder’s identity, to the pawnbroker andsigns the original pawn ticket in the presence of the pawnbroker, or his agent orservant and proves his identity.

(4) Subjected to the provisions of Sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) above, the pawnbrokershall on payment of loan lent on the pledge, the interest due thereon and the tax ofany payable in respect of such loan deliver the pledge to the pawner or holder of the

Pledges redeemablewithin 24 months

Interest rates

Procedure forredeeming of apledge

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

pawn ticket relating to the pledge; and the pawnbroker who has taken action thusshall be indemnified from any responsibility pertaining to the relevant transaction.

Provided however, if the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that the. holder of pawnticket has obtained the possession of the pawn ticket illegally and by theft, orotherwise, the pawnbroker shall immediately inform the closest Police Station withregard to that.

23.(1) Any person claiming to be the owner of a pledge, by not holding the original of thepawn ticket, or any person claiming to be entitled to hold the original of the pawnticket as per Sub section 22(3), alleges that the foil of such ticket has been lost,stolen, mislaid, destroyed or fraudulently obtained from him, may furnish to thepawnbroker a affidavits made properly and duly declared before a Justice of Peaceor Commissioner of Oaths by himself and by the person witnessing his identity,shall have the right to redeem the said pledges. Thereupon have as between himselfand the pawnbroker, all the same rights and remedies as if he produced the originalof the pawn ticket. Provided however, that for the purpose of redeeming a pledge heshall sign the counterfoil of the pawn ticket, not the original thereof, as required bySection 18.

(2) The pawnbroker is hereby indemnified from the provisions set out in above (1) fordelivering the pledge or acting in confirmation with the declaration, unless he hasactual or con vincible notice that the declaration is fraudulent or false in any materialparticulars.

24.(1) Where the original of a pawn ticket is surrendered to the pawnbroker for the purposeof redeeming a pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession the original,second copy and third copy of the pawn ticket for a period of twelve months reckonedfrom the date of the redemption of that pledge.

(2) Where a pledge is redeemed without surrendering the original of the pawn ticketrelating to the pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession for a period oftwelve months reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge the secondand third copies of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge and the affidavit furnishedto him under Section 23(1) for the purpose of such redemption.

(3) Where a pledge is sold under the provisions of this Statute, the pawnbroker shallretain in his possession the second and third copies of the pawn ticket relating tothe pledge for a period of twelve months reckoned from the date of sale.

25.(1) Where any pledge pawned to a pawnbroker is definitely lost under specific condition,the security kept by that Pawnbroker shall be deployed properly in order to paycompensation to the Pawner or any other person entitled to redeem that pledge.

(2) The Pawnbroker shall re-deposit the deficit amount of security from the security tobe deposited as per Sub section 9(2) that became deficit due to the reason of paymentof compensation under above Sub section (I) to the persons eligible forcompensation. If the amount payable under Sub section (I) above exceeds the securitydeposit, such amount that exceed shall also be paid. In addition to that the amount ofthe security stated in Section 9(2) should be re-deposited by the Pawnbroker.

Protection of ownersand of pawners nothaving pawn tickets

Pawn ticket to beretained by thepawnbroker afterredemption or saleof pledge

Setting of thesecurity andliquidation ofbusiness by settlingdeficits

Application andreturn of securityfurnished byPawnbroker

Keeping pawntickets in custody inillegal manner.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.20158A

Requirement ofRevenueCommissioner’sapproval to holdauction

(3) Where a person ceases to carryon the business of a pawnbroker, the amount ofsecurity furnished by him shall be payable to such pawnbroker, after deducting anyamount due for payment of any sum mentioned under Section (I).

26. Where a pledge is destroyed or damaged on consequence of fire or natural disaster, thepawnbroker shall be liable on demand by the pawner within the period of redemption ofthe pledge to pay to the pawner the balance money; after deducting the amount of loan andinterest and the tax amount, if any, payable in respect of such loan; from the value of thepledge calculated as at the pawned date.

27. Every pawnbroker shall insure his business with full liability insurance cover, showing thefull value of the articles pawned with him and all articles and pledges intended to be pawnedwith him within a year.

28. Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of redemption of the pledge issue a receipt for theamount of loan and interest paid to him including the taxes if any recovered by him andsuch receipt shall be kept in the form “E” set out as per Schedule I herein and a copy ofsuch receipt shall be retained by the pawnbroker.

29.(1) Every pledge which is not redeemed within the period of redemption may be disposedby sale at a public auction; but shall not be disposed of otherwise and regulations inthe third schedule shall be observed in such sale.

(2) Where a pledge is to be sold by public auction, under preceding provisions of thisSection the pawnbroker with whom such pledge has been pawned, shall, for thepurpose of obtaining approval. give at least 60 days notice in writing to the ProvincialCommissioner of Revenue, of the date and time fixed for such sale and the placesuch sale is to be held. The Commissioner of Revenue, subsequent to receivingsuch notice shall inform his decision to the pawnbroker before 30 days of the dategiven for holding the auction.

(3) Where a pledge of a pawnbroker is to be sold under this statute, after obtainingpermission from the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, the pawnbroker shallinform the pawner in writing by a preliminary notice sent via registered post before14 days about the date, time and place of auction sale to be held by the pawnbroker,.

30. In every occasion where a pledge is sold under this Statute for more than the amount ofthe loan and interest thereon due on the date of sale, including any tax payable in respectof such loan, the pawnbroker shall-

(a) Within 2 weeks of conclusion of the auction inform the pawner in writing to theaddress stated in Pledge Book by registered post as to the amount of which thepledge was sold, and the amount lying to the credit of the pawner after deducting theloan amount, interest , certain tax and necessary costs and charges of the sales, and,

(b) Such amount lying to the credit of the pawner shall be paid to the him, if he makes ademand within one year from the date of such sale.

(c) Where there is any money as at 30th June and 31st December of every year, unclaimedby pawners, an accounts report about such money shall be presented by the pawnbrokerto the Commissioner of Revenue.

Insurance Cover tobe obtained

Receipt issued atthe time ofredemption ofpledge

Pledges may besold by auction

Procedure at saleof pledge foramount exceedingthe loan interestand tax

At liquidation ofbusiness repayingthe security topawnbroker

In case of damage tothe pledge

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

Procedure related to money on salesof pledgesdeposited withCommissioner ofRevenue

(d) If no such demand is made within one year period as provided under Section (b)above, immediately after expiry of such period, the amount lying to the credit of thepawner shall be entrusted to the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.

31.(1) Where certain amount of money is deposited in the name of Commissioner ofRevenue as per provisions of Section 30, the pawner shall forthwith be informed bythe Commissioner of Revenue about such deposit.

(2) Within six months of the receipt of a notice sent by Commissioner of Revenue underSub section (1) above, where a written request is made by the pawner to theCommissioner of Revenue to pay to him the amount stated in such notice, that amountshall be paid to the pawner by the Commissioner of Revenue within 30 days uponreceipt of such request.

(3) When no request is received within the six months period as provided under Section(2) above, such amount that was to be payable to a pawner shall be credited to theProvincial Council Fund by the Commissioner of Revenue.

32. A pawnbroker shall not bid at a public sale by auction, held or purporting to be held underprovisions of this Statute, for a pledge pawned with him.

CHAPTER VII

INSPECTION, EXAMINATION AND SEIZURE

33.(1) At any occasion within two years from the date on which a pledge was sold underprovisions of this statute, the holder of the pawn ticket may inspect the entry of thesale in the pawnbroker’s book and in the catalogue containing information about theauction sale and authenticated by the signature of the auctioneer, or either of theentries. The pawnbroker shall permit the holder of the pawn ticket to inspect theentry of the sale in such book and in the catalogue or either of them.

(2) The Revenue Commissioner or an officer in state public service or Provincial PublicService or a team of such authorized by him in writing has the power to inspectaccounts of the business of a pawnbroker.

34. Where any person -

(a) Not producing the National Identity Card, valid Passport or Driving License whenoffering an article on pawn, and/or,

(b) Refusing and/or unable to give satisfactory account of the means by which he becamein possession of the article presented to a pawnbroker for pawning, and/or,

(c) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker whether an article offered on pawnby such person is his own property or not, or as to his name and address, and/or,

(d) Attempts and tries to redeem a pledge not entitled to be redeemed by him, and/or,

(e) The pawnbroker has reason to suspect that when an article is offered on pawn, thesame has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained -

the pawnbroker, considering the above factors has reasonable and justifiable suspicionabout the pawner;· shall inform the Police in charge of the said area forthwith.

Pawnbrokerprohibited frompurchasing pledges atauction

Powers relating toinspection of salebook and accounts

Procedure to befollowed wherepawner producesinaccurateinformation abouthimself or articlespawned

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201510A

35. It shall be lawful for an officer of the Public Provincial Public Service, or group of officersauthorized by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, to enter any pawnbroker’s shop orplace of business at any hour and examine and take any notes of any articles pledged with thepawnbroker and/or any books and documents kept by him. If the Commissioner of Revenuedecides that the assistance of a Police Officer is necessary for such search, that PoliceOfficer in Charge may be accompanied and attend to any matters or all matters hereinmentioned. No person shall resist any such officer or group of such officers in the executionof such duties.

CHAPTER VIII

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

36. (1) Every person who-

(a) Offers to a pawnbroker an article on pawn, but refuses or is unable to give asatisfactory account of the means by which he became in possession of sucharticle; and/or,

(b) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker whether an article offeredby him on pawn to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, and/or as to hisname and address and/or as to the name and address of the owner of such article;and/or,

(c) Pawns or trying to pawn with a pawnbroker, without any lawful excuse, theproperty of another person ; and/or,

(d) Attempts to redeem a pledge not being a person entitled to redeem such pledge;and/or,

(e) willfully and knowingly gives false information regarding the article offeredon pawn or when the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that the article offeredon pawn has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained;

shall be guilty of an offence

(2) Every person violating any provision of this Statute or fails to perform anything whichis required to be performed under provisions of this Statute or promotes suchcontravention, shall also be guilty of an offence

37.Every pawnbroker who-

(I) Maintains a pawnbroker’s business without obtaining a proper license from theCommissioner of Revenue under provisions of Section 04 of this Statute; and/or,

(2) Fails to forward the annual report on accounts to the Commissioner of Revenueunder provisions of Section 08 of this Statute and/or

(3) Contravenes provisions of Section 22 and/or, provisions of Section 34 of this Statuteor neglects conformation to such provisions; and/or,

(4) Neglects to have his business insured with a full liability insurance as prescribed bySection 27 of this statute; and/or,

Offences by pawnersand other persons

Offences bypawnbrokers

Promoting

Power to searchpawnbroker’s shop orresidence

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(5) Takes an articles on pawn from any person appearing to be under the age of eighteenyears and or under the influence of liquor; and/or,

(6) Takes an article on pawn without giving the pawner original of the pawn ticket;and/ or,

(7) Purchases, takes on pawn or exchanging the original of a pawn ticket issued by anotherpawnbroker; and/or,

(8) Employs any servant under the age of eighteen years to take an article on pawn;and/or,

(9) Make room for redemption of an article while in pawn with him with a view topurchasing it; and/or,

(10) Come into agreement with pawner or person offering to pawn any article; to purchase,sell or to dispose an article kept with the pawnbroker in pawn within· the period ofredemption or to purchase, sell or dispose an article offered for pawning at the timeof pawning; and/or,

(11) Come into agreement with any person other than the pawner; to purchase, sell or todispose an article kept with the pawnbroker in pawn within the period of redemptionor at the time the said article was offered for pawning; and/or,

(12) Sells or otherwise disposes of any pledge pawned with him, except in such manneras is authorized by this Statute; and/or,

(13) Makes any false entry in any book required to be kept by him under this Statute orneglecting to enter therein any entry which is required by the Statute; and/or,

(14) Contravenes any of the provisions of this Statute that does not carry a declared penalty;

Shall be guilty of an offence

38. Every pawnbroker who knowingly taking on pawn any linen or apparel, or unfinished goodsor materials entrusted to any person to wash, clean, iron, mend, manufacture, workout,finish or decorate shall be guilty of an offence.

39. Every pawnbroker who neglects to deposit with the Provincial Commissioner of Revenuethe amount lying to the credit of a pawner as required by Section 30 shall be guilty of anoffence.

40.(I) Where an offence is committed by a board of persons, if the said board of persons isa corporation all the directors and officers of the said corporation, or, if it is a businessinstitution all the partners of the said business, or, if it being a non-incorporatedcompany and non-business institution, the management and all the officersresponsible for its administration shall be considered as offenders.

However, where a person proves that the said offence was committed without hisknowledge or he has taken prompt action to prevent the said offence being committed,such a person shall not be considered as an offender to the said offence.

(2) Anything done or neglected to be done by the servant or agent of a pawnbroker in thecourse of carrying out the business or in relation to the business of a pawnbroker,

Offences by a servantor agent of apawnbroker

Prohibition of takingon pawn linen,clothing, unfinishedgoods

Defaulting ofdeposits to be anoffence

Offences by Directorsand Managers of alimited company

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201512A

shall be deemed to be done or neglected, as the case may be, by the pawnbroker.

Provided however, any action done or neglected by any servant or agent of thepawnbroker contravening any provision of this Statute, such servant or agent shall beguilty of an offence.

41.(1)(a) Every person who takes action while violating Sections 2, 3(1),4(1), 14, 17,19,22(4),27,29,30,34,36,37(12),38, 39, 44, 45 of this statute and found guiltywhen convicted after a summary trial before a Magistrate, shall be subjected toa fine not less than Rs. 200,000/- or imprisonment for a period not exceedingsix months or both the fine and imprisonment. In addition to the above penalties,the court has power to order closure of a pawn business kept by a pawnbroker.The courts may make suitable orders based on situational matters arising inrelation to the said pawning businesses and safety of pledges, handing over ofpledges to the owners again.

(b) In addition to the penalties imposed under above Sub section (l)(a), a court oflaw shall order, in respect of a pawnbroker who maintains his pawn businesswithout obtaining an annual license, to pay arrears of annual license fees and asum equal to the penalty as imposed under Section 7(5) of this statute. Allsums of money charged by a court of law as per this Subsection shall be creditedto the Provincial Council Fund.

(c) In addition to the penalties imposed under above Sub-section (l)(a), a Court oflaw shall order in respect of a pawnbroker who maintains his pawn businesswithout renewing his annual license, to pay arrears of annual license fees and asum equal to the penalty imposed under Section 7(4) of this Statute. All sumsof money charged by a court of law as per this Subsection shall be credited tothe Provincial Council Fund.

(d) In addition to a penalty imposed under above Sub section (1) (a), where apawnbroker is convicted for an offence under Section 38, further to a penaltyimposed by a court of law for that offence, the court may order that pawnbrokerto deliver such pledge to the owner in the presence of the court or in any othermanner which the court may direct.

(e) In addition to a penalty imposed under above Section (1)(a), where a pawnbrokeris convicted for an offence under Section 39 further to a penalty imposed by acourt of law for the said offence, the court may order a sum equal to that amountbe paid by the pawnbroker in the manner of recovering a fine from suchpawnbroker. All such money, charged and collected thus by the court shall bedeposited in custody of the Commissioner of Revenue.

2. Every person functioning having contravened Sections 13, I5, 18(1), 18(3), 19, 24,32, 35, 37(5), 37(6), 37(7), 37(8), 37(9), 37(11), 37(13) and 54, subsequent tobeing convicted by a summary trial conducted before a Magistrate, shall be subjectedto a fine not less than One Hundred Thousand Rupees or imprisonment for a periodnot exceeding 06 months or both the fine and imprisonment.

42. Whenever it is reported to a court of law that in any legal action filed under this Statute thata pawnbroker is in unlawful possession of an article or several articles, then the court oflaw shall order such article or articles to be produced before the court and make suitableorders that may consider necessary and under such orders if any, the court has the power to

Articles unlawfullypossessed by apawnbroker

General Penalties

Offences andPenalties

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

order such article or articles to be delivered to any person named by such court, and wheresuch delivery is not possible, the court may order such article or articles to be confiscated.

CHAPTER IX

CONVEYING AND LIQUIDATION OF THE BUSINESS

43. (1) Where a business of a pawnbroker is maintained by a single person, and if he intendsto convey it to someone after his death, a legal instrument prepared properlycontaining obligations with that person and be produced when applying for registrationfor license or at the time of obtaining annual license. However, such person shall bequalified to issue a license to carry on a pawn business under this Statute.

(2) Where the person who is nominated for conveyance of the business as per above Subsection (1) above, is found to be dead, a legal document containing obligatoryconditions, signed by other person for and on behalf of deceased person, shallagain be forwarded to the Commissioner by the pawnbroker.

(3) Where a pawn business is to be carried out on partnership basis, there shall beprovisions in the partnership agreement to protect the rights of pawners whenliquidating such business. If the Commissioner is of opinion that such provisionshave not been included in the partnership agreement the issuance of license shall berefused.

44. (1) If a pawnbroker conducting a pawning business intends to convey that business toanother person from certain date onwards, a written request in that regard should bemade from the Commissioner of Revenue prior to three months from suchconveyance.

(2)(a) Where such a request received, the Commissioner of Revenue within 07 daysof receiving such request shall inform the pawnbroker in writing:-

(i) to stop taking articles on pawn of that business from a specific dateonwards;

(ii) to obtain and forward police clearance certificates from the Officer inCharge of the Police Station purviewing the area of his business place,and from the Officer in Charge of the Police Station purviewing the areaof his permanent residence;

(iii) to forward by the conveyer an affidavit containing the facts specified inSub-section 3(2) of this statute and if he is engaged in any business, toforward a police clearance certificate from the Officer in Charge of thepolice station where his business is located and from the Officer in Chargeof the police where he permanently resides in;

(iv) to forward all the details pertaining to all the pledges to be released andpledges not have been redeemed within the pawning period;

(v) to furnish other details as required by the Commissioner of Revenue.

(b) A person who is bound to make a request to the Commissioner of Revenueunder this Section is in a disabled condition physically and mentally, and ifsuch business is an individually owned business, such request may be made by

Need to produce aninstrument at the timeof applying forlicense regarding theperson to whombusiness isconveyable at thedeath of pawnbroker

A written notice to beobtained fromCommissioner ofRevenue to conveythe business

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201514A

a lawful heir of such person. In case of a partnership business, any other partner/partners may make such request.

(3) The Commissioner of Revenue within one calendar month of receiving a request forconveyance of pawning business as per Sub section (I) above shall inform his decisionto the said person in writing.

(4) From the date of receiving the decision of Commissioner of Revenue under Sub -section (3) above, the pawnbroker shall publish in the place of said business and indaily newspapers of Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, a public notice containingthe name, address, National Identity Card number of the conveyer of his businessand the date of conveyance.

45.(1)Any person carrying on a pawn business, if intends to liquidate his business, awritten request shall be forwarded to Commissioner of Revenue before three monthsto the date of liquidation.

(2) A person keeping a pawning business under Sub section (I) above, upon making awritten request to the Commissioner of Revenue to liquidate his business, shall,within 14 days of making such request publish, in the place of business and in Sinhala,Tamil and English newspapers, a notice stating his intention to liquidate his business.

(3)(a) Where a written request is received for liquidation of business under aboveSub-section (1), the Commissioner of Revenue shall within seven days ofreceiving such letter, inform the pawnbroker in writing -

(i) to stop taking articles on pawn from a specified date onwards;

(ii) to forward all information in respect of all pledges to be redeemed;

(iii) to forward an affidavit that he will carryon the business until the date ofredeeming the last pledge.

(b) Furthermore, the Commissioner of Revenue, after informing the relevant PoliceStation that the said pawnbroker has made a request to liquidate his business,shall call a report from the Heads of the Police Stations purviewing thepawnbroker’s residential area and business place as to there is any complaintagainst his business in relation to any criminal offence and whether there is acourt proceeding related to any criminal offence against his business.

(c) A person who is bound to make a request to the Commissioner of Revenueunder Section (I) above is physically and mentally in a disable condition and ifsuch business is an individually owned business, such request may be made bya legal heir of such person. In case of a partnership business. any other partner/partners may make such request.

(4) The Commissioner of Revenue within one calendar month from the date of receivinga request to liquidate a pawn business under Sub-section (I) above shall inform hisdecision in writing to such person.

(5) Within 30 days from the date of receiving the written decision of Commissioner ofrevenue under Sub section (4) above, the pawnbroker shall publish at his businessplace and in Sinhala, Tamil and English newspapers a public notice stating the date ofliquidation of his business.

Liquidation ofbusiness

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

Caretaker to act onbehalf of the persondisabled

CHAPTER X

SPECIAL SITUATIONS

46. Where this Statute states certain action be carried out by certain person or whereperformance of certain action or function required under this statute, and in case of theintended person is disabled physically or mentally, such action or function will have to beperformed by the legal heir of the said disabled person.

47. When accomplishment of certain action to be performed by certain person oraccomplishment of certain action or function under this Statute involves a partnershipbusiness, where two or more persons are involved, such action or function shall beperformed by the principal partner of the said business.

However, any person who has been informed under the provisions of this Statute as theprincipal partner of a partnership business, he shall be deemed as the principal partnerunless proven that he is not a partner of the said business or any other person in Sri Lankais the principal partner of the said business,

48.(1) Where certain action is performed under this Statute by a board of persons, if thesaid board of persons is a corporation all the directors and officers of the saidcorporation or if it is a business institution, all the partners of the said business or ifit being a company non-incorporated non-business institution; the management andall the officers responsible of its administration shall be responsible for the saidaction.

However, where a person who has been notified under the provisions of this statuteon behalf of a board of persons being a corporation, business institution or non-incorporated company; if he proves that he has no connection whatsoever with thesaid board of persons or he has no responsibility with regard to the said actions, heshall be considered as not responsible to such action.

49. Where a certain person conducting a pawning business conveys his business to other certainperson, even though the conveyer has not been notified previously about an amount ofarrears defaulted in relation to that business that had existed for a time-period prior to theconveyance, the provisions of this Statute should be applicable with regard to charging thatarrear amount from the said conveyer.

50.(1) Where a person conducting pawning business has deceased, his successor shall besubjected to carry out all the activities, matters and affairs that the deceased personwas subjected to accomplish under this Statute had he been alive and all the arrearsfor the period prior to the death of the deceased, chargeable from the deceased personhad he been alive, shall be levied from the said executor.

Nevertheless

(a) No legal suit shall be filed against the executor under the provisions of ChapterVIll of this Statute with regard to certain action or negligence of the deceasedperson;

(b) The responsibility of the executor under this Section shall be limited to thetotal -

(i) arising from the amount of the estate of the deceased person which theexecutor possessed or was under his control at the date of delivery ofsuch notice to him regarding any binding arising under the provisions ofthis Statute; and

Principal partner toact in case ofpartnership business

Assigningresponsibility onbehalf of company orboard of persons

Convey to pay arrears

Executor subjected topay defaulted moneypayable by a persondeceased.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201516A

(ii) an amount of certain part of that estate which may be in possession of aninheritor or other person connected to such estate.

CHAPTER XI

RECOVERY OF AMOUNTS IN ARREARS

51.(1) In order to recover certain amount in arrears under this statute, the Commissioner ofRevenue shall inform through registered post informing the pawnbroker or personbearing the said responsibility that payments should be made prior to a date specifiedin the notice, whereas, any amount not paid so shall be considered as arrears andcharged.

(2) (a) When there is a default of payment of an amount under Sub section (1) above, theCommissioner of Revenue before taking action to recover such amount in any manneraccording to foregoing provisions, a letter or a notice shall be issued to the defaulterunder registered post stating -

(a) the details of the amount in arrears

(b) the intention of taking action to recover the amount in arrears

(3) Such a pawnbroker in receipt of a notice issued by the Commissioner of Revenueunder above Sub section (2) may forward any objection if any, in writing within 30days of the date stated in such notice to the Commissioner of Revenue. TheCommissioner of Revenue shall consider such objection and shall inform his decisionto pawnbroker or person bearing that responsibility in writing within 2 weeks ofreceiving such objection and such decision shall be final and conclusive.

52.(1) For the purpose of recovering any amount of arrears payable under this Statute, theCommissioner of Revenue or a person authorized by him in writing may issue acertificate to a court exercising proper jurisdiction.

(2) Nothing under this Section shall authorize or require the Magistrate in any proceedingthereunder to question the correctness of a statement included in a certificate orstatement issued by the Commissioner of Revenue for the purposes of above Section(1), whereas, the Magistrate shall take measures to charge the amount stated in thesaid certificate as a penalty.

(3) In any legal proceedings the assurance of the Commissioner of Revenue shall be anample evidence that the defaulted amount in arrears has been calculated properly andpayments of such amounts had been defaulted; and any type of answers filed showingthat fees are excessive and false and such appeals made against shall not be consideredor accepted.

CHAPATER XII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

53(1) The minister may make regulations and/or orders from time to time in respect ofmatters authorized by this Statute to make laws/regulations and/or orders or mattersrequired to enforce the provisions of this Statute.

Notifying to pay theamount in arrears

Informing byregistered post priorto recovery of arrears

Legal action before aMagistrate forrecovery of amount inarrears

Enforcing regulations

Obections may beforwarded regardingrecovery of arrears

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(2) Without harm to the extension of powers assigned by Sub section (1) above, theminister may made regulations ;

(a) ordering certain specific matter considered as prescribable by this Statute;and

(b) providing provisions for certain matter consequential or supplementary toplacing security by pawnbrokers.

(3) All rules, regulations and/or order made under this Section shall be published in theGazette and shall come into force from a date specifically stated in the said rule,regulation and/or order, or from a subsequent date of such publication.

(4) Every regulation made under this Section shall be presented to the Provincial Councilmeeting within three months of its publication in the Gazette or in case a ProvincialCouncil meeting was not held within that period, such regulation, in order to bedecided or approved, shall be presented in the form of a motion to the first Councilmeeting held subsequent to the elapse of that period. Any regulation not approvedhaving presented to the Provincial Council meeting thus, shall be considered asrepealed from the date of such rejection, however, no harm shall be caused to anyaction taken under that regulation prior to its rejection.

(5) From whatever date should certain regulation be considered as repealed, such dateshall be announced by a Gazette notification.

54.(1) For the purpose of this Statute the Commissioner of Revenue by written noticerequire any person to -

(a) produce, within a specified period of time, specially mentioned books, accounts,trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawn tickets, pledgebooks, audit reports, or any other documents mentioned in such notice, ownedby such person.

(b) Supply any information

(c) Be present at a time, date and place mentioned in the notice, by himself or byan authorized representative to check any matter or any matters.

(2)When a notice is served, upon any person to furnish any information· mentioned underParagraph (a) of Sub section (I) such person shall act according to such directionscontrary to whatever mentioned under any other written law, wherein; any books,accounts, trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawn tickets,pledge books, audit reports, or other documents that have been produced to theCommissioner of Revenue or being produced or taken into his possession by anyother manner, when required to be kept in his possession for a certain period forpurposes of this Statute, they may be kept in his possession as required.

55.Any notice sent by registered post under this statute shall be considered as duly served tothe person named in the notice on the 7th day from the date of handing over the said noticeto the post.

56.Filing any legal action for any offence under this Statute shall take place on the approvalof the Commissioner of Revenue.

Informationrequired byReveuneCommissioner

Retaininginformation

Serving notices

Filling legal action

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201518A

57. The Commissioner of Revenue shall determine from time to time the forms to be used forthe purpose of performing duties under this Statute, the Commissioner may amend or alterfrom “time to time the forms and or registers so determined or substitute any other formsor registers so determined.

58. Every person appointed under this Statute or considered having appointed so, or everyperson employed or being employed to assist any person for the purpose of carrying out orto carry out the functions and provisions under this Statute, shall protect and safeguard thesecrecy in respect of all matters known to him concerning any person’s duties and activitiesperformed under provision of this Statute, except when, in the performance of his ownduties and such fact or information shall not be conveyed to anyone except to the person towhom it is relevant or to his authorized representative, or to the minister, or to the ChiefSecretary, or to his authorized representative and shall not allow and keep room, or permitany person to obtain any document whatsoever in the possession, custody and in the controlof the Commissioner of Revenue.

59. Any function or anything whatever is authorized to be exercised by a pawnbroker under thisStatute may be exercised by a servant or an agent of a pawnbroker with his permission.

60. Any authority, duty or task stipulated under this Statute may be carried out and exercised byan officer of Public Service! Provincial Public Service assigned with written authorityunder the signature of Commissioner of Revenue.

61. For the purpose of this Statute any person who, purchases or receives or takes in goods andpays, or advances or lends thereon any sum of money under an agreement or understandingexpressed on implied, or be form the nature and character of the transaction reasonablyinferred that those goods may be redeemed or purchased on any conditions; or who keepsa shop for the purchase or sale of goods or for taking goods by way of security for moneyadvanced thereon; shall be considered as a person carrying on the pawn business. (Further,every such transaction, article payment advance and loan shall be deemed a pawning, pledgeand loan within this Statute;)

62. The provisions of Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 shall apply for the purposesof this statute.

63. From the date of enforcement of this statute, the Pawnbrokers’ Statute No. 03 of 2001of Western Provincial Council shall be repealed.

64 Whatever contrary has been stated in this Statute-

(a) A license issued within the Western Province under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance No.13of 1942 or Pawnbroker’s Statute of Western Province Provincial Council No. 03 of2001 shall be deemed as a license issued under this Statute;

(b) Until orders formulated under this Statute be substituted In place of any orderformulated under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance No. 13 of 1942 or Pawnbroker’s Statuteof Western Province Provincial Council No. 03 of 2001, such regulations shall beconsidered as regulations formulated under this Statute;

(c) A lawsuit filed under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance No. 13 of 1942 or Pawnbroker’s Statuteof Western Province No. 03 of 2001 and was pending till the immediate date previousto the specified date and a decision given by a court of law in such lawsuit shall beconsidered, as the situation requires, as a case filed under this Statute or a decisiongiven for a lawsuit filed under this Statute.

Format preparation

Officialconfidentiality

Servant or agent mayfunction onpawnbroker's behalf

Assigning powersetc., under the statute

Shop keepers deemedas Pawnbrokers

Criminal Code ofProcedure No. 15 of1979 to be applicable

Pawnbrokers' StatuteNo. 03 of 2001repealed

Interim provisions

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

CHAPTER XIII

INTERPRETATIONS

65. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires-

“Specified date” means the date of enforcement of this Statute.

“Commissioner of Revenue” means the Western Provincial Commissioner of Revenue appointedto execute the functions of this Statute.

“Foreign Company” means any company or board of individuals incorporated outside Sri Lankaand is any company or board of individuals that-

(a) Establish a business place within Sri Lanka after specified date.

(b) Establish a business place within Sri Lanka before specified date and continuouslymaintain a business place in Sri Lanka.

“Pawnbroker” means a person who, not being a registered bank, is conducting a pawning businesson certain conditions with a stated of implied consent or acknowledgement that articleswill be released later or purchased back, or otherwise under a consent or acknowledgementreasonably implying such consent or acknowledgement according to nature andcharacteristics of the transaction under which articles are retained as security for advancemoney to be paid for sale or purchase of such articles; and maintains a business place forthat purpose where articles are purchased or retained for payment of certain amount ofmoney or advances or lending money on behalf of such articles.

“Pawner” means a person who hands over an article for the purpose of pawning to a person engagedin the pawning business;

“Sri Lankan Citizen” means a person who is a Citizen of Sri Lanka according to a certain lawenforced contemporarily in relation to citizenship.

“District” means the Administrative district

“Foreign Firm” means a firm :–

(i) Consisting of two partners, one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or both ofwhom are not Sri Lankans; or

(ii) Consisting of more than two partners at least one of whom is not a citizen of SriLanka.

“Month” means a period of 30 days for the purpose of charging profits and interest.

“Calendar Year” means the period commencing from the 1st of January and ending on31st December of every year.

“Financial Year” means the period commencing from April 01st of every year and ends in 31st ofMarch of the following year.

“Person” means a single person or board of persons, where such board of persons constitutes acorporation, all the directors and officers of the said corporation and where such board ofpersons constitute a business institution, all the partners of the said business institution orwhere it being a non-business institution and non-incorporated company the managementand all the officers of the said company who are responsible for its management andadministration.

Interpretations

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201520A

“Pledge” means an article pawned with a pawn broker.

“Instrument” means a document signed between other persons in relation to conveyance of pawningbusiness.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in the Western ProvinceProvincial Council.

“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Western Province.

“Chief Secretary’” means the Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial Council.

“Provincial Council Fund” means the Provincial Council Fund of the Western Province ProvincialCouncil established under Section 19 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.

“Business Place’” means a house, store house, company, joint business, partnership business, andplace where business activities are carried out and any of the places where such branchesare maintained.

“Unfinished Goods or Materials” includes any goods of any manufacture, either mixed or separateor any materials, whatsoever, intended for composing or manufacture of any goods aftersuch goods or materials are put into state of manufacture, and before the same are completedor finished for the purpose of wearing or consumption.

“Arrears” includes the portion not being set off from the amount of money recoverable or payableunder this statute.

“Defaulter” means a person who prevents from accomplishing the functions specified by thisstatute and/or a person accomplishing function that has been prohibited by this statute.

“Executor” means an executor of a deceased person or an administrator and includes -

(a) A person who is in custody of a deceased person’s property or who makes use ofsuch property;

(b) A person who has made submission to District Court to issue or to re-stamp a probatecertificate or administrator certificate in respect of the estate of a deceased personor a person entitled to make a submission to District Court thereof; or

(c) Trustee who acts upon a trusteeship of a last will of the person who established thetrust;

(d) A person whose name is included in the instruments consisting bonds, presentedunder Section 46(1) of this Statute.

“Authorized Agent” means for the purpose of this Statute a person authorized in writing to act onhis behalf and an individual who is -

(a) A relation of his in respect of an individual ;

(b) A partner in respect of partnership business ;

(c) A director or secretary in respect of company ;

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(d) A member of a board of individuals in respect of a board of individuals;

(e) a member of the Sri Lanka Chartered Accountants Institute;

(f) An Attorney at law.

“A person of physical and mental disability” means an under-aged person, a person sufferingfrom lunacy, mental retardation or madness.

“Registered Bank” means a licensed special Bank as interpreted in the Banking Act, No. 30of 1988.

“Chief Partner” means, from among the active partners residing in Sri Lanka-

(a) the partner named first in the partnership business agreement;

(b) in the absence of such agreement, the partner who stands alone by generalname in the partnership business or stands foremost to other partners by nameor initials; or

(c) the partner named first in the statement made under Section 04 of the BusinessNames Act, No. 07 of 1987.

“Caretaker” includes a custodian, guardian, guardian of property , manager or other personbearing organization, control or management of certain property on behalf of certainperson.

66. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Statute, theSinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistancy

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201522A

(Section 04)

FIRST SCHEDULE

Form - “A”

LICENSE

Number :..............................................................

I,................................................................................................................................................................................................the

Commissioner of Revenue of Western Province according to Section 04 of the Pawnbrokers’ Statute No...................of

2015 and as per powers assigned to me by the aforesaid Statute do hereby authorize Mr./Mrs./Ms.....................................

........................................................................................................................................................................................................

........................................................................................................................................................Company residing/located at

................................................................................................................................................................................to carryon the

business of pawning under the name of ..................................................................................................................................at

..................................................................................................................................................................

..................................................................................................................................................................

According to the provisions of the Pawnbrokers’ Statute of the Western Provincial Council, No..................................of

2015 and issue the license to that effect.

The period of validity of this license terminates on 31.12............................

................................................................Commissioner of Revenue/on behalf of

Date :......................................................

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(Section 17)

Form - “B”

PLEDGE BOOK

Pledge Book of ...................................................................Pawnbroker of ...................................................................

No. of date of issue of the pawn tickets

No. of pledge in the month

Amount of Loan upon each article

Name of pawner

Address of pawner

Description of each article pawned

Weight of article and Carat amount, ifjewellery

Value of each article pawned

Date of redemption

Name and address of person redeeming

Rs. Cts.Rs. Cts.Rs. Cts.

(Section 17)

Form - “C”

SALE BOOK OF PLEDGES

Date and place of sale:................................................................................

Name and address of Auctioneer:

................................................................................

No. ofpledge asin PledgeBook

Date ofPawningName ofPawnerAmount ofLoanOutstandingInterestAmount

Amount forwhich eachpledge wassold byAuctioneer

Name andaddress ofpurchase

Rs. Cts.Rs. Cts.Rs. Cts.

Profit or Interest charged upon eacharticle

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201524A

(Section 18)

Form - “D”

PAWN TICKET

Licence No. .................................................

No :....................................................

Date :.................................................

........................................................................................................................................................................(Name of Pawner),

the undersigned residing at ..........................................................................................................................................................

.................................................................................................................................................................. (Address of Pawner)

and bearing the National Identity Card No./Passport No. of ..................................................................................................

has pawned with the undersigned ...............................................................................................................................................

................................................................................................................................................ (Name of Pawnbroker) residing at

.........................................................................................................................................................(Address of Pawnbroker) on

behalf of .......................................................................................................................................................................(Name of

Pawnbroker of his Representative),.............................................................................................(Nature of pledge) weighing

............................................. and valued Rs................................................................as per current market value and obtained

Rs ............................. Under an annual interest of ...........................% on this day.

...........................................................................................Signature of Pawnbroker or his ServantName of Pawnbrokeror Representative

.....................................National Identity Card No.

(to be signed by Pawner at the time of redeeming pledge)

The aforementioned pledge was redeemed by me after paying the total amount and interest relevant to it.

........................Signature of pawner.

Date :...............................................

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2015

(Section 28) Form - “E”

RECEIPT

Licence No. .................................................

On behalf of the loan amount of Rs. ................................................................................................................. lent on pledge

No....................................................received a total sum of Rs. .............................................................including the interest

of Rs..............................................calculated on the said loan amount from ........../.........../20........ to ........../.........../20........,

and Rs..................... . as the tax amount.

Signature

..............................................................

Name

...............................................................

Name and Addressof the Institution

...............................................................

(Stamp)Date :................................

(Section 15(2), 18(2) and 19)

SECOND SCHEDULE

Rate of Interest

The rate of interest on every rupee or a fraction of a rupee lent shall be two cents for every month or part thereof.

Payment of Tax

Where a tax under any written law is payable by the Pawnbroker on a loan granted upon a pledge, such tax may be recoveredfrom the pawner.

Restricting recovery of entranced interest

On behalf of a loan lent on a pledge, the rate of interest agreed upon by the pawnbroker at the date of pledge shall be validfor 24 months from the date of such pledge. Eventhough any increase in interest rate is experienced within the said 24months’ time, such increase is not applicable to the said transaction.

If the pledge relating to the pawn ticket is not redeemed within a period of twenty four months from the day of pawning, itis liable to be sold by Public Auction.

If there be any surplus profit realized at the sale, such profit amount shall be paid to the pawner by the pawnbroker.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.201526A

(Section 29)

THIRD SCHEDULE

Regulations relating to Auction of Pledges

1. All the pledges put on auction, shall be disclosed by the auctioneer at least prior to 2 hours from thecommencement of the said auction so as to enable the public to view such.

2. A name list starting the following facts about the pledges shall be published by the auctioneer.

a) Name and place of business of the pawnbroker;

b) Month in which the said pledge was auctioned;

c) No. of each pledge, according to how it was entered in the pledge book at the time of auctioning of suchpledge.

3. The relevant auction shall take place and business premises of pawn broker.

4. The notice pertaining to the auction shall at least be published at one time in three types of newspapers publishedin Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in addition, shall be displayed at public places by means of noticesthroughout the area where the auction will be held. Furthermore, the said notices shall comprise the followingstated matters.

a) Name and place of business of the pawnbroker:

b) Date, time and venue of relevant auction:

c) The pledges not redeemed within which time period are included in that auction.

5. The notice stated in above No.4 shall be published on a Sunday preceding 07 days to the date specified forholding of such auction and/or from such Sunday onwards.

6. If the pawnbroker bids at an auction, the auctioneer shall not act in any way favourable to the said pawnbroker.

7. Within 14 days of such auction, a copy of the pledge list sold at that auction or the part of the list relevant to thesaid pawnbroker’s pledges or a document stating the number of pledges and amount of money redeemed afterselling pledges of the said pawnbroker and having certified it as accurate by placing the auctioneer’s signature,it shall be handed over to the pawnbroker by the auctioneer.

8. The pawnbroker shall keep safe every such name list at least for two year time period subsequent to suchauction.

07-900

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.