==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2074$13 - 2018 cqks ui 05 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'06'05No. 2074/13 - TUESDAY, JUNE 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A - PG 4064 — 507 (06/2018)

THE DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES ACT, No. 9 OF 1996

Order under Section 4

BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of theUnited Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the Agreementbetween the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Government of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka, entered into on 07th December, 2005 the relevant articles of which Agreement arerecited in the Schedule hereto.

TILAK MARAPANA M. P.,Minister of Foreign Affairs.Colombo,4th June, 2018.SCHEDULE

ARTICLE VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR

REFUGEES AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

ARTICLE VII

Privileges and Immunities

1. The Government shall apply to UNHCR, its property, funds and assets, and to its officials and experts on missionthe relevant provisions of the General Convention. The Government also agrees to grant UNHCR and its personnelsuch additional privileges and immunities as may be mutually determined to be necessary for the effective exerciseof the international protection and humanitarian assistance functions of UNHCR.

2. Without prejudice to paragraph I of this Article, the Government shall in particular extend to UNHCR and itspersonnel the privileges, immunities, rights and facilities provided in Article VIII to X of this Agreement.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20182A

ARTICLE VIII

UNHCR Office, Property, Funds and Assets

1. UNHCR, its property, funds and assets, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from everyform of legal process, except in so far as in any particular case it has expressly waived its immunity ; it beingunderstood that this waiver shall not extend to any measure of execution.

2. The premises of UNHCR office shall be inviolable. The property, funds and assets of UNHCR, wherever situatedand by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation and any otherform of inference, whether by executive, administrative, judicial or legislative action.

3. The archives of UNHCR, and in general all documents belonging to or held by it, shall be inviolable,

4. The funds, assets, income and other property of UNHCR shall be exempt from ;

(a) Any form of direct taxation, provided that UNHCR will not claim exemption from untaxed charges forpublic utility services ;

(b) Customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions or articles imported or exported by UNHCR for its officialuse, provided that articles imported under such exemption will not be sold in the country except underconditions agreed upon with the Government ;

(c) Customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions in respect of the import and export of its publications.

5. The import or supply of goods and services to UNHCR and international officials as defined in Article X. I.below will be exempted from Value Added Tax (VAT) as granted under Protocol Note Verbale Number PR/POL/01 dated 4th June 2002, and from other duties or taxes afforded to Diplomatic Missions.

6. Any materials imported, exported or purchased in the country by UNHCR either directly or by an internationalimplementing partner duly accredited by UNHCR to act on its behalf in connection with the humanitarian assistanceto refugees, and provided the consignee remains UNHCR, shall be exempt from customs duties, prohibitions andrestrictions as well as from direct or indirect tax.

7. UNHCR shall not be subject to any financial controls, regulations or moratoria and may freely :

(a) Acquire from authorized commercial agencies, hold and use negotiable currencies, maintain foreign-currency accounts, and acquire through authorized institutions, hold and use funds, securities and gold ;

(b) Bring funds, securities, foreign currencies and gold into the host country from any other country, use themwithin the host country or transfer them to other countries.

8. UNHCR shall enjoy the most favourable legal rate of exchange.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20183A

ARTICLE IX

Communication Facilities

1. UNHCR shall enjoy, in respect of its official communications, treatment not less favourable than that accordedby the Government to any other Government, including its diplomatic missions, or to the other inter governmental,international organizations in terms of priorities, tariffs and charges on mail, cablegrams, telephotos, telephone,telegraph, telex and other communications, as well as rates for information to the press and radio.

2. The Government shall secure the inviolability of the official communications and correspondence of UNHCRand shall not apply any censorship to its communications and correspondence, Such inviolability, without limitationby reason of this enumeration, shall extend to publications, photographs, slides, films and sound recordings.

3. UNHCR shall have the right to use codes and to dispatch and receive correspondence and other materials bycourier or in sealed bags which shall have the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic couriers and bags.

4. The Government shall ensure that UNHCR be enabled to effectively operate its radio and othertelecommunications equipment, including satellite communications systems, on networks using the frequenciesallocated by or coordinated with the competent national authorities under the applicable InternationalTelecommunication Union’s regulations and norms currently in force.

ARTICLE X

UNHCR Officials

1. The UNHCR Representative shall enjoy, while in the country, in respect of himself, spouse and dependents, theprivileges and immunities, exemptions and facilities normally accorded to diplomatic envoys. For this purposethe Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall include his name in the Diplomatic List.

2. UNHCR officials, while in the country, shall enjoy the following facilities, privileges and immunities.

(a) Immunity from personal arrest and detention ;

(b) Immunity from legal process in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in theirofficial capacity, such immunity to continue even after termination of employment with UNHCR.

(c) Immunity from inspection and seizure of their official baggage ;

(d) Immunity from any military service obligations or any other obligatory service ;

(e) Exemption, with respect to themselves, their spouses, their relatives dependent on them and other membersof their households, from immigration restriction and alien registration ;

(f) Exemption from taxation in respect of salaries and all other remuneration paid to them by theUN/UNHCR ;

(g) Prompt clearance and issuance, without cost, of visas, licenses or permits, if required, and free movementwithin, to or from the country to the extent necessary for the carrying out of UNHCR’s internationalprotection and humanitarian assistance programmes ;

(h) The same privileges in respect of exchange facilities as are accorded to officials of comparable rankforming part of the UNDP office in Sri Lanka;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20184A

(i) The same protection and repatriation facilities with respect to themselves, their spouses and relativesdependent on them and other members of their households as are accorded in time of international crisis todiplomatic envoys ;

(j) The right to import ;

(i) Within 06 months of first taking up their post in Sri Lanka, free of duty, taxes and other levies,prohibitions and restrictions on imports, their furniture, appliances, and other effects includingautomobiles and other articles for personal use and consumption and not for gift or sale. Any goodsand articles imported under such exemption shall normally be re-exported and shall not be soldwithin Sri Lanka, except with the prior permission of and subject to such terms as may be agreedupon with the Government. It sold within Sri Lanka, such goods and articles will be liable to normalduties and taxes, and ;

(ii) After first taking up their posts in Sri Lanka, free of duty, taxes and other levies, and without prohibitionand restrictions on imports, reasonable quantities of food stuff and other articles for personal useand consumption and not for gift or sale, in accordance with applicable procedures and existing rulesas established between the Government and the UNDP.

(iii) UNHCR officials, who are nationals of, or permanent residents in the host country, shall enjoy thoseprivileges and immunities provided for in the General Convention.

ARTICLE XI

Locally recruited personnel assigned to hourly rates

1. Persons recruited locally and assigned to hourly rates to perform services for UNHCR shall enjoy immunityfrom legal process in respect of words spoken or written and any act performed by them in their official capacity.

2. The terms and conditioins of employment for locally recruited personnel assigned to hourly rates shall be inaccordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions, regulations and rules and the applicable laws andregulations of Sri Lanka.

ARTICLE XII

Experts on Mission

1. Expert performing missions for UNHCR shall be accorded such facilities, privileges and immunities as arenecessary for the independent exercise of their functions. In particular they shall be accorded ;

(a) Immunity from personal arrest or detention ;

(b) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and acts done by them inthe course of the performance of their mission. This immunity shall continue to be accorded notwithstandingthat they are no longer employed on missions for UNHCR ;

(c) Inviolability for all papers and documents ;

(d) For the purpose of their official communications, the right to use codes and to receive papers orcorrespondence by courier or in sealed bags ;

(e) The same facilities in respect of currency or exchange restrictions as are accorded to representative offoreign governments on temporary official missions ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20185A

(f) The same immunities and facilities including immunity from inspection and seizure in respect of theirpersonnel baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys.

ARTICLE XIII

Persons performing services on behalf of UNHCR

1. Except as the Parties may otherwise agree, the Government shall grant to all persons performing services onbehalf of UNHCR other than nationals of the host country employed locally, the privileges and immunitiesspecified in Article V, Section 18, of the General Convention, In addition, they shall be granted.

(a) Prompt clearance and issuance, without cost of visas, licenses or permits necessary for the effective exerciseof their functions ;

(b) Free movement within, to or from the country, to the extent necessary for the implementation of theUNHCR humanitarian programme.

ARTICLE XIV

Waiver of Immunity

Privileges and immunities are granted to UNHCR personnel in the interests of the United Nations and UNHCRand not for the personnel benefit of the individuals concerned. The Secretary-General of the United Nations maywaive the immunity of any of UNHCR personnel in any case where, in his opinion, the immunity would impedethe course of justice and it can be waived without prejudice to the interests of the United Nations and UNHCR.

06- 792/1

THE DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES ACT, No. 9 OF 1996

Order under Section 4

BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of theprogram of the Peace Corps, to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the Agreement between The Governmentof the United States of America and the the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, entered intoon 26th February, 2018 the relevant articles of which Agreement are recited in the Schedule hereto.

TILAK MARAPANA M. P.,Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Colombo,4th June, 2018.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20186A

SCHEDULE

ARTICLES II, III, IV, V OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THEGOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA CONCERNING THE PROGRAM OF THE PEACE CORPS IN THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISTREPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

ARTICLE II

1. The Government of Sri Lanka shall accord equitable treatment to the Volunteers and persons performing functionsunder contract with the Peace Corps and their dependents and property, accord them and their property full aidand protection, including treatment no less favourable than that accorded generally to nationals of the UnitedStates residing in Sri Lanka, and fully inform, consult, and cooperate with representatives of the United Stateswith respect to all matters concerning them.

2. The Government of Sri Lanka shall provide to the Volunteers the same exemptions with respect to ;

(a) taxes on payments that they receive to defray their living costs, on income derived from their officialsduties, and on income from other sources outside Sri Lanka ;

(b) customs duties or other charges on their personal property introduced into Sri Lanka for their own use ;and

(c) all other taxes or other charges (including immigration/visas fees), except license fees

as it provides to members of the administrative and technical staff of the Embassy of the United States inaccordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.

3. The Government of Sri Lanka shall issue residence permits and visas to the Volunteers on terms no less favourablethan it issues such permits and visas to experts, senior volunteers, members of missions and their families of anyinternational organization performing a similar mission in Sri Lanka, to include issuing residence permits andmultiple entry visas without fee or other charge.

ARTICLE III

1. The Government of the United States shall provide the Volunteers, the Peace Corps Representative, and staff ofthe Representative with such limited quantities of equipment and supplies as the two government may considernecessary to unable the Volunteers to perform their tasks effectively.

2. The Government of Sri Lanka shall exempt from all taxes (including value-added taxes) customs duties, and othercharges all equipment, supplies, and other goods and services introduced into or acquired in Sri Lanka by theGovernment of the United States, or any contractor financed by it, for use hereunder.

ARTICLE IV

1. To enable the Government of the United States to discharge its responsibilities under this agreement, theGovernment of Sri Lanka shall receive a Peace Corps Representative and such staff of the Representative (includingemployees and persons performing functions under contract with Peace Corps as designated by the Peace CorpsRepresentative) and members of their families forming part of their households, as are acceptable to theGovernment of Sri Lanka. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other agreement, the Government of Sri Lankashall exempt such persons, and members of their families forming part of their households who are not citizensor permanent residents of Sri Lanka from all taxes or income derived from their Peace Corps work or othersources outside Sri Lanka, from all customs duties and other charges on their personal property introduced into

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20187A

Sri Lanka for their own use, and from all other taxes or other charges (including immigration/visa fees) exceptlicense fees. In addition, such persons, and members of their families forming part of their households, shall beaccorded status equivalent to that accorded administrative and technical staff personnel of the diplomatic missionof the United States, except they shall not be accorded immunities.

2. The Government of Sri Lanka shall issue residence permits and visas (including multiple entry visas), without feeor other charges, to the Peace Corps Representative, staff, and individuals performing functions under thisagreement, and members of their families forming part of their households.

ARTICLE V

The Government of Sri Lanka shall exempt from investment and deposit requirements and currency controls all fundsintroduced into Sri Lanka for use in accordance with this agreement by the Government of the United States or contractorsfinanced by it. Such funds shall be convertible into the currency of Sri Lanka at the highest rate that is not unlawful in SriLanka.

06-792/2

THE DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES ACT, No. 9 OF 1996

Order under Section 4

BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of theEconomic Development Cooperation Fund Representatives, staff, families and office, to the extent necessary to giveeffect to the terms of Article 6 of the Arrangement between Government of the Republic of Korea and the Governmentof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka concerning loans from the Economic Development Cooperation Fundfor the years 2017 through 2019, entered into on 29th November, 2017 the relevant articles of which Agreement arerecited in the Schedule hereto.

TILAK MARAPANA M. P.,Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Colombo,4th June, 2018.

SCHEDULE

FRAMEWORK ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THEGOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA CONCERNING LOANS FROM THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION FUND FOR

THE YEARS 2017 THROUGH 2019

2. The Sri Lanka Government shall accord the Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as theOffice, the following privileges, exemptions and benefits.

(a) For Representatives, the Staff members and their families :

(i) exemption from income tax and other fiscal charges imposed on or in connection with any emolumentsor allowances remitted to them from overseas ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20188A

(ii) exemption from consular fees, customs duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature, other thanthose for storage, cartage and similar services, in respect of the importation of personal and householdeffects, including one motor vehicle for each of the Representatives and the Staff members withexemption from registration fees, annual revenue license fees and driving license fees, provided thatsuch imports are made within six (6) months of the arrival of the Representatives and the Staffmembers ;

(iii) exemption from special consumption tax and VAT for a motor vehicle for each of the Representativesand foreign expert staff members, except locally recruited Sri Lankans, who are entitled to import aduty free/tax free motor vehicle for the personal use of the Staff members ;

(iv) in case of the local purchase, the Representatives and the Staff members except locally recruited SriLankan will be allowed to purchase a motor vehicle without taxes from the privileges person orprivileged organizations who already imported duty free vehicles through the Diplomatic PrivilegesAct, Temporary recruited staff members are not entitled to import or buy a duty free vehicle.

(v) permission to enter, leave and sojourn in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for theduration of their assignment therein, and the expending and facilitation of the procedures for alienregistration and exemption from consular fees ;

(vi) issuance of one-month entry visas, by the relevant authorities of the Democratic Socialist Republicof Sri Lanka, to the Representatives, the staff members and their families for their entry into thecountry, and upon their arrival in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, issuance of multiple-entry residence visas valid for the duration of their assignment, by the Controller General of theDepartment of Immigration and Emigration of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, onthe recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka, in accordance with the prevailing immigration laws of the Democratic Socialist Republic ofSri Lanka ;

(vii) notification to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ofthe arrival of the Representatives and the Staff members, and issuance of diplomatic identificationcards to the representatives and foreign expert identification cards to the other Staff members tosecure the cooperation of all government agencies necessary for the performance of the duties ofthe Representative and the Staff members ; and

(viii) issuance of special passes to the representatives to enter airport/seaports beyond the passport controlpoint to receive and/or send off experts and missions of bank ; Permanent Airport access pass will beissued for the representatives ; Seaport access may be facilitated based on the request/need.

(b) For the Office :

(i) exemption from customs duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature, other than those forstorage, cartage and similar services, as well as from the requirements of obtaining import licensesand certificates of foreign exchange coverage, in respect of the importation of the Office equipment.

(ii) importation, free of customs duties, or local purchase, free of special consumption tax and valueadded tax, of motor vehicles necessary for the Office activities, provided that the number of cars isagreed between the relevant authorities of the two Governments.

(iii) exemption from income tax and other fiscal charges imposed on or in connection with funds for theOffice expenses remitted from overseas ; and

(iv) exemption from value added tax imposed on the office rent ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.20189A

(c) Other measures necessary for the performance of the duties of the Representatives, the Staff members andthe Office.

3. The motor vehicles mentioned in paragraph 2 above shall be subject to the payment of customs duties and taxesif they are subsequently sold or transferred within the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to individualsor organizations not entitled to exemption from such duties and taxes or similar privileges.

4. The Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as the Office, importing goods free of customsduties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature, in accordance with sub-paragraphs (a)(ii) and (b)(i) and (ii) ofparagraph 2 above, shall present details of such goods to the authority concerned of the Sri Lanka Government toassist with import and re-export formalities.

5. The Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as Office, shall re-export sell within theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or grant to the Sri Lankan Government on its approval of the goodsimported free of customs duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature in accordance with the laws andregulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

6. The Sri Lankan Government shall accord the Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as theOffice, privileges, exemptions and benefits no less favourable than those accorded to the representatives, staffmembers and their families, as well as the offices, of executing agencies of any third country or of any internationalorganization performing a similar mission in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. These privilegesshall not be applicable to Sri Lankan nationals.

06-792/3

THE DIPLOMATIC PRIVILEGES ACT, No. 9 OF 1996

Order under Section 4

BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of theDelegation of German Industry and Commerce to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the Agreementbetween Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic ofSri Lanka, entered into on 06th March, 2018 the relevant articles of which Agreement are recited in the Schedule hereto.

TILAK MARAPANA M. P.,Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Colombo,4th June, 2018.

SCHEDULE

ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THE GOVERNMENT

OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DELEGATION OF GERMAN INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE INSRI LANKA

2. The purpose of the Delegation is to promote trade and economic relations between companies, organizations andtradespersons from the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Itshall lobby for the interests of business from both countries and promote commercial activity in both directions.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.06.201810A

The Delegation shall not pursue profit-oriented objectives. It is entitled to charge fees for its services to recoupits costs.

3. The Delegation shall be registered with the relevant authority of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaas the representation of the German Association of Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK). The Delegationshall be located in Colombo, It may, in accordance with the law applicable in Sri Lanka, establish and maintainother branch offices in the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The Delegation shallhave the possibility to conclude cooperation arrangements for the purposes referred to in paragraph 2 abovewith, inter alia, Germany Trade and Investment (GTAI).

4. The Delegation shall be financed by allocations from the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy ofthe Federal Republic of Germany and the DIHK. Payments made directly or indirectly by the Federal Republic ofGermany or the DIHK to the Delegation for the purpose of covering costs shall be exempt from direct taxes. TheDelegation is permitted to have bank accounts in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and in theFederal Republic of Germany and any foreign currency received by the Delegation may be transferred freely atany time and without restrictions between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic Socialist Republicof Sri Lanka in both directions.

5. Persons working for the Delegation in coordination with or on behalf of the DIHK for the purposes specified inparagraphs 2 above and their family members (spouse and their children who are minors or are undergoingtraining) are not members of the diplomatic missions or consular posts of the Federal Republic of Germany inthe Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. They do not enjoy the privileges and immunities granted to thestaff of such missions and posts.

6. The competent authorities in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka shall issue residence permits to thepersons specified in paragraph 5 above expeditiously within the scope of the applicable laws and regulations. Theresidence permits shall entitle the bearer to multipile entries and exits for the duration of its validity. In accordancewith the national law of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the permits shall be initially issued fora year and renewed yearly. A residence permits in the form of a visa must be obtained from one of the diplomaticmissions or career-consular posts of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before entry into theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to take up employment. Applications to extend the permit’s validitymay be submitted in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

7. The persons specified in paragraph 5 above do not require work permits to perform their activities at the Delegation.

8. The number of staff employed by the Delegation shall be in a reasonable proportion to the purpose for which itwas established.

9. The salaries, wages and similar earnings of the persons referred to in paragraph 5 above shall be subject totaxation in accordance with the relevant agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and capitaland in accordance with the relevant applicable laws and regulations.

10. In accordance with existing laws, rules, and regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. TheGovernment of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka shall grant the persons specified in paragraph 5above an exemption from customs duties and other charges levied upon the import and re-export of personalproperty brought into the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka within 12 months of theirmove there.

06- 792/4

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.