==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20151A

L.D. B 24/51.

THE MOTOR TRAFFIC ACT (CHAPTER 203)

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Transport under section 237 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) read with section164 of the aforesaid Act.

NIMAL SIRIPALA DE SILVA,Minister of Transport and Civil Aviation.Colombo,12th of November, 2015

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the Motor Traffic (Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings) Regulations,No. 02 of 2015.

2. (1) These regulations shall specify in accordance with the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) theSigns, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings which shall be applicable to Roads, Highways, Provincial Roads, Expresswaysand Restricted Access Highways which have been declared as such in terms of any law applicable to the same and in forceat the time of the making of these regulations and any such road which may be so declared at any time after these regulationshave come into operation.

(2) The Motor Traffic (Signs) Regulations published in Gazette Extraordinary No.444/18 of March 13, 1987, arehereby rescinded.Notwithstanding the aforesaid regulations being rescinded, the Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markingsdisplayed under the provisions thereof, shall remain valid and effectual as if they are so displayed in terms of theseregulations.

3. (1) All Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings which form part of these regulations and which are depictedin Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III, Schedule IV, Schedule V, Schedule VI and Schedule VII of these regulations are signswhich are accepted in terms of the Vienna Convention entered into on November 8, 1968 and November 30, 1995, to whichSri Lanka is a signatory.

w;s úfYI

wxl 1940$21 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'11'12

No. 1940/21 - THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20152A

(2) In terms of the aforesaid Convention the following instructions shall also be in operation in connection with theuse of the Signs, Signals, Symbols and Road Markings as are specified in these regulations :-

(a) road users shall promptly obey all instructions given by authorized officials directing traffic;

(b) the instructions given by authorized officials directing traffic shall take precedence over those conveyed by

Traffic Light Signals, Road Signs and Road Markings and other traffic regulations;

(c) instructions given by Traffic Light Signals shall take precedence over those conveyed by Road Signs

regulating priority; and

(d) road users shall comply with the instructions conveyed by Traffic Light Signals, Road Signs and Road

Markings.

4. (1) Traffic Signs that may be or that are required to be placed, erected, exhibited or displayed on any category ofroads in any part of Sri Lanka, shall comprise the following signs:-

(a) "Danger Warning Signs" which are specified in Schedule I to these regulations;

(b) "Regulatory Signs" which are specified in Schedule II to these regulations; and

(c) "Informative Signs" which are specified in Schedule III to these regulations.

(2) The Danger Warning Signs, Regulatory Signs and Informative Signs specified in Schedule I, Schedule II andSchedule III shall include signs that are required to be placed, erected, exhibited or displayed on all roads.

(3) Each Traffic Sign referred to in Schedule I, Schedule II and Schedule III hereto shall be identified by thedistinctive number assigned to such sign in the respective Schedules. Any reference hereinafter to such number preceded bythe word "sign" or "diagram" shall be construed as being a reference to a particular sign or the diagram illustrating the signidentified by such number.

5. (1) Any Danger Warning Sign illustrated in Schedule I hereto shall convey to road users, a warning of the dangerahead, of the description specified inregulations 6 and 7 of these regulations,which corresponds to the number of the sign.

(2) Any Regulatory Sign illustrated in Schedule II hereto shall convey to road users a prohibition, restriction,mandatory requirement or priority requirement specified in regulations 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of these regulations, whichcorresponds to the number of the sign.

(3) Any Informative Sign specified in Schedule III hereto shall convey to road users, information of the descriptionspecified in regulations 14 and 15 of these regulations, which corresponds to the number of the sign.

DANGER WARNING SIGNS – (SCHEDULE I)

6. Any warning denoted by a Danger Warning Sign depicted in Column I of Part I of Schedule I to these regulations,shall convey the meaning specified in the corresponding entry to each sign as specified in Column II thereof.

7. (1) At places where the Competent Authority considers it advisable to indicate to drivers of vehicles approachinga Danger Warning Sign, the distance between the sign and the beginning of a section of road having a potential hazard, adangerous section of a road, or a place where a priority requirement applies along with the Danger Warning Sign, suchindication shall be displayed on an Additional Panel which shall be of the size, colour and type shown and specified in thediagram APD-1 of the Part II of Schedule I hereto affixed below the sign.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20153A

(2) Where a Danger Warning Sign is used to give warning of a potential hazard or a danger on a section of a roadand the Competent Authority considers it necessary to indicate to the drivers of vehicles, the length of that section of theroad, such indication shall be done on an Additional Panel of the size, colour and type shown and specified in the diagramAPD-2 of the Part II of Schedule I hereto affixed below the sign.

(3) A Danger Warning Sign may be repeated to warn the drivers of vehicles progressively, where the CompetentAuthority in exceptional circumstances, considers it necessary to do so. Where a Danger Warning Sign is repeated, thedistance between the sign and the beginning of the section of road having the potential hazard or the dangerous section ofa road shall be displayed on an Additional Panel in accordance with provisions of paragraph (1).

(4) In exceptional circumstances, where an intersection of roads has a geometrical layout different from any of thetypical geometrical layouts portrayed in symbols in Signs DWS-12 to 20 of the Part I of Schedule I thereto, the CompetentAuthority may vary any such symbol or adopt a symbol to conform to the geometrical layout of such particular intersectionin a Danger Warning Sign required to be placed ahead of the intersection.

(5) The details of the Danger Warning Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the sizeof the letters of figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of schedule I to theseregulations.

REGULATORY SIGNS – (SCHEDULE II)

8. (1) Regulatory Signs shall comprise the following categories of signs:-

(a) Prohibitory Signs;(b) Restrictive Signs;

(c) Mandatory Signs; and(d) Priority Signs.

(2) (a) A Prohibitory Sign shall convey to drivers of vehicles an order of prohibition prevailing on a road or asection of a road. Where the prohibition to which a sign relates is removed or the period of prohibition has ended, therespective sign shall be removed.

The details of the Prohibitory Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of theletters or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.

(b) A Restrictive Sign shall convey to drivers of vehicles a restriction applicable to the use of a road or a section ofa road or removal or cancellation of such restriction.

The details of the Restrictive Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of theletters or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.

(c) A Mandatory Sign shall convey to drivers of vehicles a compulsory order to be followed.

The details of the Mandatory Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of theletters or figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.

(d) A Priority Sign shall convey to road users the priority that shall be given to other road users, applicable tocertain situations or to latter road users the priority that shall be given to them by the former road users applicable to suchsituation or that such priority ends.

The details of the Priority Signs which indicate the size of the sign, the shape, the colour and the size of the lettersor figures contained therein, shall be as set out in the Table appended at the end of Schedule II to these regulations.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20154A

9. Prohibitions, Restrictions, Mandatory and Priority requirements notified by Regulatory Signs shall be as specifiedhereunder, according to categories of Regulatory Signs set out in paragraph (2) of regulation 8 and corresponding to thenumbers of the signs set out in regulations 10, 11, 12 and 13.

10. (1) A Regulatory Sign, other than one which signifies cancellation of a prohibition or restriction, shall be placedat the commencement or at a point close to the commencement, of a road or section of a road to which such Regulatory Signapplies. When such a sign is placed, the relevant Regulatory Sign shall apply to the road or section of road beyond the pointwhere the sign is placed.

(2) Sign PHS-9 shall be placed along the road near a hospital, school, Court House or any other place where theCompetent Authority considers it necessary to prohibit the drivers of vehicles to use the horn of the vehicles within theparticular location or section of road.

11. (1) Where the Competent Authority is of opinion that it is necessary to do so, an Additional Panel of the size,colour and type shown and specified in diagrams APR-01 APR-02 may be affixed below a Prohibitory or Restrictive Sign toshow the distance in relation to which the prohibition or restriction applies.

(2) Additional Panels APR-08, APR-09, APR-10, APR-11, and APR-12, affixed below the Signs RSS-05, RSS-06,RSS-07, RSS-08 and RSS-09 respectively, display the categories of vehicles to which the speed restriction applies.

(3) Where the Competent Authority is of opinion that it is necessary to indicate the time period and the direction,during which the restriction applies, an appropriate Additional Panel APR-06 may be affixed below the Signs PHS-23, PHS-24,PHS-25 and PHS-26.

12. For the purpose of these regulations:-

(a) The following requirements shall be conveyed by Sign PRS-01 and Road Marking RM – 1 :-

(i) that every vehicle shall, before entering the intersection, stop at the transverse line shown in Road

Marking RM-01 of the Schedule V hereto or where such line is not visible, at the Sign PRS-01; and

(ii) that no vehicle shall pass such transverse line and where such line is not visible, pass the Sign PRS-

01 and enter the intersection, in such a manner or at such a time as is likely to cause danger to suchvehicle or to the driver or any occupant of any other vehicle on the adjacent road ahead, or as tonecessitate the driver of such other vehicle to change its speed or course.

(b) The requirements which are conveyed by Sign PRS-02 and Road Marking RM-02 is that no road user shall

proceed past the transverse broken line shown in Road Marking RM-02 of the Schedule V hereto, or wheresuch line is not visible shall enter the adjacent road ahead in such a manner or at such a time as is likely tocause danger to such vehicle or to the driver or any occupant of any other vehicle on the adjacent roadahead or as to necessitate the drivers of such other vehicle to change its speed or course.

13. (1) Prohibition of parking of vehicles on any side of a road or a section of a road shall be indicated by Sign PHS-23. Road Marking RM-16 may be placed along the edge of carriageway over a length of road to which such prohibitionapplies. Sign PHS-24 and Road Marking RM-17 or RM-18 shall indicate the places where parking and standing of vehicles areprohibited, and such signs shall be placed along the edge of carriageway over the length of road to which such prohibitionapplies.

(2) Where parking is prohibited on a road or section of a road on opposite sides on alternative days of the month,Signs PHS-25 and PHS-26 shall be used instead of Sign PHS-23. The prohibition on parking shall apply to the side of the roadwhere the Sign PHS-25 is placed on the odd number days of the month and to the side where the Sign PHS-26 is erected onthe even number days of the month, where such days are reckoned from the dates in the calendar:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20155A

Provided that where the Competent Authority so decides, any special day may be exempted from the days on whichsuch prohibition applies, provided that such exemption is indicated in accordance with paragraph (3) of this Regulation.

(3) The scope of the prohibition on parking and standing shall be indicated by inscriptions on an Additional Panelof the size, colour and type shown in diagram APR-06 affixed below the signs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) specifyingthe time period or time periods over which such prohibition applies, or the time in excess of which parking or parking andstanding are prohibited and exemptions granted to certain classes and types of vehicles from the application of suchprohibition.

(4) Where the Competent Authority considers it necessary, an Additional Panel of the size, colour and type shownand specified in the diagram APR-03 of the Schedule II hereto, may be affixed below the sign at a point where prohibition orrestriction begins. An Additional Panel of the size, colour and type shown and specified in diagram APR-04 of Schedule IIhereto may be affixed below any sign repeating the prohibition or restriction and a further sign with an Additional Panel of thesize, colour and type shown and specified in the diagram APR-05 of Schedule II hereto affixed below it may be placed at thepoint where the prohibition or restriction ceases to apply. Such signs shall be placed on the side of the road where parkingis prohibited or restricted.

(5) The sign placed at the point where the prohibition or restriction on parking begins, shall paralled to the road.Other signs may be placed facing in the same direction as the first sign or one or more of such other signs may be placed withthe plane of the face of the sign parallel to the general direction of movement of traffic and facing the carriageway. Anyaforesaid Additional Panel illustrated in diagrams APR-03, APR-04 and APR-05 affixed below any aforesaid sign, shall havethe plane of its face parallel to the general direction of movement of traffic and facing the carriageway. Where a sign notifyinga prohibition or restriction on parking has been placed on any side of a road, the prohibition or restriction on parking shallapply to all vehicles moving along or using that road subject to any requirement or condition specified in accordance withparagraph (3).

(6) The Competent Authority may restrict or prohibit parking of vehicles within 25 metres on major roads and 10metres on minor roads of an intersection where he is of opinion that such restriction or prohibition facilitates the flow oftraffic and improves the safety of the road users. The distance from an intersection for this purpose shall be measured asshown in sketches in Schedule VII hereto.

(7) Any prohibition or restriction on parking indicated by any Signs PHS-23 to PHS-26 shall apply from the placewhere such a sign is situated to the next intersection unless the length of section of road over which such a prohibitionapplies is not displayed or shown in accordance with paragraph (4) of regulation 13.

(8) Where Sign OSD-06 indicating a halting place for an omnibus has been placed on any road, no vehicle shall behalted or parked within a distance of thirty (30) metres from such sign, except those vehicles which are required to stop inconformity with paragraph (10) of regulation 19 and paragraph (3) of regulation 32, provided the aforesaid distance of thirty(30) metres shall be reckoned from the closest point of Road Markings RM-27 to RM-32 where this Road Marking is visiblefor the time being.

INFORMATIVE SIGNS – (SCHEDULE III)

14. Informative Signs shall comprise signs categorized as Advanced Direction Signs, Direction Signs, PlaceIdentification Signs and Confirmatory Signs for all roads and Other Signs useful for drivers.

15. Information conveyed to road users by Informative Signs specified in paragraph (3) of regulation 5 shall be ofthe descriptions specified hereunder, corresponding to the numbers of the signs and according to categories of InformativeSigns specified in regulation 14.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20156A

MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS (ROAD WORK SIGNS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES) – (SCHEDULE IV)

16. Notwithstanding the other provisions in these regulations and subject to the provisions in regulations 17 to 19,signs may be provided temporarily on or near a road (hereinafter referred to as "Temporary Signs"), for conveying thefollowing to drivers of vehicles and other road users:-

(a) information in respect of deviations or alternative traffic routes, due to road works or other obstruction or

restrictions of a temporary nature;

(b) information in respect of the route which shall be followed on special occasions such as sports events,

public gatherings which attract considerably higher volumes of traffic than otherwise; and

(c) a temporary prohibition, restriction or requirements of Temporary Signs shall have the same status in

enforcement and application, as a sign specified in regulation 3.

17. Signs mentioned in Schedule IV shall conform to such size, colour and type as specified below:-

(a) a Sign mentioned in Schedule IV shall be exhibited according to the situation;

(b) every letter, numeral and symbol incorporated in a Sign mentioned in above Schedule shall be black, red or

green on a white or yellow background;

(c) every letter and numeral incorporated in a Temporary Sign other than any letter or numeral incorporated in

the sign in accordance with Schedule III of regulation 14 shall be not less than forty (40) millimetres nor morethan two hundred and fifty (250) millimetres in height and not less than two hundred and fifty (250) millimetresnor more than 500 millimetres in length;

(d) the identity of the Competent Authority responsible for placing any Temporary Sign on a road shall be

indicated in such a sign by means of words or letters displayed less prominently than letters, numerals,symbols of the sign referred to in paragraph (b) and (c) of this regulation; and

(e) every Temporary Sign shall be of such size as is required to accommodate the wordings, numerals and any

symbol referred to in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this regulation and shall comply with the provisions ofparagraph (3) and (4) of regulation 18.

18. (1) Any information, warning, requirement, restriction or prohibition of a description which can be so conveyedby any of the signs specified in these regulations and illustrated in Schedules I, II, III, IV and V to these regulations, shall notbe conveyed to drivers of vehicles using Temporary Signs of a different design and type.

(2) For the purposes mentioned in regulation 16, any other sign specified in these regulations and illustrated inSchedules I, II, III, IV and V to these regulations may be adopted in conformity with the relevant provisions of theseregulations.

(3) Where a sign provided for a situation in conformity with the provisions of these regulations, differs from thesituation for which such sign is assigned or where there is no sign for such situation, the driver of the vehicle shall follow theinstructions, information or message inscribed in the background of the Miscellaneous Sign in conformity with regulation 23.

(4) A sign specified in paragraph (3) of this regulation shall not be used without the approval of the CompetentAuthority.

19. (1) Barricade Boards may be used to show the limits of road works on the carriageway. These boards shall beplaced facing the on-coming traffic and just in front of sections of roads that have to be closed for the use of traffic.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20157A

(2) Where the extent of road works and the volume of traffic is justifiable, the limits of the road works shall beindicated by means of such boards set up at suitable intervals along the bounding limits of the road works. The size, type andcolour of such barricade boards are shown and specified in diagrams MS-01 and MS-02 of Schedule IV hereto and they shallbe placed or erected so that their top edge is at a height not less than 1.0 metre and not more than 1.25 metres above thesurface of the carriageway nearest to them. Barricade boards may be used to indicate or mark the limits of a restriction or anyobstruction, at the discretion of the Competent Authority. The Yellow coloured stripes of the barricade board may bereflectorized when the Competent Authority considers it advisable to do so.

(3) Side Obstacle Markers of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-03 of the Schedule IV may be used toindicate locations where the carriageway narrows in a manner that is not clearly visible to the drivers.

(4) Direction Board of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-04 of the Schedule IV may be usedpermanently to indicate the direction of road deviation at sharp curves.

(5) Chevron Markers of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-05 of the Schedule IV may be used alongthe outer edge of long hazardous bends to improve the visibility of the road alignment and to guide the drivers.

(6) Roadside Delineators of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-06 of the Schedule IV are lightreflective devices and may be used to indicate the edge of the road and the road alignment.

(7) A device constructed out of rubber or flexible plastic material and being of conical shape (hereinafter referred toas a "traffic cone"), may be placed temporarily on the carriageway and shall be of the size, colour and type shown andspecified in diagram MS-07 of Schedule IV hereto. Traffic cones may be used for conveying the warning that drivers ofvehicles shall follow a certain route around road works or an obstruction or a restriction on a road, and to delineate the edgeof a route of vehicular traffic at or past such places. The white portion of the traffic cones may be reflectorized and the redportions may also be reflectorized.

(8) A device constructed of flexible plastic material and of conical shape of the size, colour and type and specifiedin diagram MS-08 may be used for conveying to the road users a temporary prohibition of parking of vehicles on a section ofa road.

(9) Guard Posts for control of traffic and demarcating areas for no parking of vehicles shall be of the size, colour andshape indicated in diagram MS-09 of the Schedule IV.

(10) "STOP" and "GO" signs of the type shown and specified in diagram MS-10 of Schedule IV may be used bytraffic wardens at schools or by workmen at road work areas to indicate to drivers that the drivers must stop or the drivers mayproceed.

(11) Guard posts for control of traffic and protection of road furniture shall be of the size, colour and shape indicatedin diagram MS-11 of Schedule IV.

20. (1) Danger Warning Lamps of the type shown and specified in diagrams MS-13 to MS-15 with illuminated lightsshall be used during the night in combination with Temporary Signs to convey the warning that drivers of vehicles shouldtake special care. At such locations where traffic cones are placed on the carriageway, Danger Warning Lamps may be placedin between, traffic cones. The height of the centre of a Danger Warning Lamp from the surface of the carriageway nearest toit shall be not less than eight hundred (800) millimetres and not more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) millimetres.Electric Lamps and Lanterns may be used during the night to provide adequate lighting at locations where road works are inprogress.

(2) In exceptional situations, if the Competent Authority considers it necessary, flashing light in diagram APS-05showing an intermittent amber light may be used instead of Danger Warning Lamps specified in paragraph (1).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20158A

21. A lamp in the form of an illuminated spherical globe may be used for conveying the warning that drivers ofvehicles are approaching a Road Refuge. The globe shall conform to the following specifications:-

(a) the globe shall be white;

(b) the globe shall have a diameter not less than two hundred and ninety (290) millimetres nor more than three

hundred and ten (310) millimetres; and

(c) the height of the centre of the globe from the surface of the carriageway nearest to it shall be not less than

three (3.0) metres nor more than five (5.0) metres.

22. (1) Vehicle Markings of the shape, size and colour shown in diagrams MS-16 of the Schedule IV are used on therear of long vehicles to warn other road users of the presence of a long vehicle.

(2) Vehicle Markings of the shape, size and colour shown in diagram MS-17 of the Schedule IV are used to indicatethe fact that there is a disabled vehicle resulting from a mechanical fault or otherwise ahead, and warning road users of thesame in order that they may take necessary pre-cautionary action in passing this location.

(3) Red flags of an area not less than point two (0.2) square metres and rectangular or triangular in shape as shownin diagram MS-18, may be used or exhibited at a level which is not less than four hundred and fifty (450) millimetres from theground level by persons authorized by the Competent Authority to convey to drivers of vehicles, of a danger just ahead andshall cause them to stop or slow down their vehicle in an emergency at or in the vicinity of, road works being executed, anobstruction, or a restriction situated on or near a road.

(4) A Traffic Warden Jacket of the shape and colour shown in diagram MS-19 of the Schedule IV, which is worn bya Traffic Warden, is used to identify the Traffic Wardens on duty, controlling traffic.

(5) A Police Jacket of the shape and colour shown in diagram MS-20 of Schedule IV which is worn by a Police Officeris used to identify the traffic Police Officer on duty, controlling traffic.

23. Where an Authority, a Government Department, Corporation or any Statutory Body, Board or Contractor or anAgent of any one of such persons or any other person (hereinafter referred to as a "Promoter") carries out any work on, in oralong a road or over and above a road, which may cause or causes obstruction to traffic, or which may restrict movement oftraffic, or may constitute a potential hazard or danger to users of the road, requiring provision of Traffic Signs in the interestsof safety of road users and to facilitate the movement of traffic along such road as specified in these regulations,notwithstanding anything contained in the other provisions, the necessary signs shall be provided by such a Promoter, inconformity with provisions of these Regulations and with the approval of the Competent Authority and subject to anydirections given by him, during a period of time such a situation exists. For the purpose of this Regulation, the CompetentAuthority shall mean the Competent Authority responsible for the administration of such road.

ROAD MARKINGS – (SCHEDULE V)

24. (1) A traffic sign consisting of a line or mark on a road (hereinafter referred to as a "Road Marking"), forconveying to traffic on roads, a warning, a requirement or information of the description specified in this regulation shall beof the size and type shown in the diagram in Schedule V hereto corresponding to the number of the sign. The provisions ofparagraph (2) of regulation 3 shall also apply to Road Markings and the diagrams illustrating Road Markings specified in theSchedule V hereto with the expression, "Road Marking" substituted for the word "sign" in paragraph (2)of regulation 3.

(2) In any diagram in the Schedule V hereto, the dimensions indicated within brackets against dimensions notindicated in brackets may be treated as an alternative to the last mentioned dimensions.

25. (1) Warnings, requirements or information conveyed by Road Markings specified in these regulations are ofthe descriptions specified hereunder corresponding to the respective number of the Road Marking shown in Schedule V.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.20159A

(2) On a four-lane undivided road, Asphalt Strips (RM-53) may be provided as a divider to separate the opposingtraffic flows. The Asphalt Strips shall be seventy – five (75) millimetres in width, thirty (30) millimetres in height and onethousand two hundred (1200) millimetres in length as decided by the Competent Authority to ensure the safety of the roadusers. The space in between the Asphalt Strips shall be six hundred (600) millimetres and the angle of the strips to the centreline of the road is sixty degrees (600). Asphalt Strips are made out of asphalt concrete.

(3) Single continuous longitudinal white line on either side of the Asphalt Strips shall be marked on the carriageway.Vehicles are prohibited from crossing the Asphalt Strips for overtaking and only vehicles turning right may cross theseAsphalt Strips with safety.

(4) Two longitudinal continuous lines (RM-54) drawn six hundred (600) millimetres apart on a four-lane undividedroad at the centre represents a centre median as a divider to separate the opposing traffic. Vehicles are permitted only to turnright across these two lines. However, crossing the lines is not permitted for the purpose of overtaking.

(5) Rumble Strips (RM-33, RM-34 and RM-35) are placed on the approaches to Pedestrian Crossings, sharp bendsor any other place, where the Competent Authority considers it necessary in order to reduce the speeds of approachingvehicles. The thickness of Rumble Strips provided on the approaches to Pedestrian Crossings shown in diagram RM-32 shallbe not less than five (5) millimetres and not more than seven (7) millimetres above the surface of the carriageway nearest toit. Rumble Strips are made out of reflective Thermoplastic paint and are placed at right angle to the centre line of the road.

26. (1) Road Markings may be painted or made of metal or other suitable material or of a material built into the roador may consist of studs or plates. No Road Marking with the exception of the Asphalt Strips and Rumble Strips placed on thecarriageway shall project more than six (6) millimetres above the surface of the carriageway nearest to it unless it is a roadstud. Non depressible stud shall not project more than eighteen (18) millimetres at the highest point, and not more than six (6)millimetres at their edges, above the surface of the carriageway nearest to them. Depressible studs fitted in Road markingsand incorporating reflectors shall not project more than 6 millimetres at their edges nor more than twenty five (25) millimetresat their highest points when not depressed or eighteen (18) millimetres when depressed, above the surface of the carriagewaynearest to them.

(2) The colour of every Road Marking other than those comprising studs specified in these Regulations, shall bewhite unless otherwise provided.

(3) The colour of Road Markings RM-16, RM-17, RM-18, RM-46 and RM-47 shall be yellow.

(4) Non depressible and depressible studs which may be placed as Road Markings, shall be of colour, size and typeapproved by the Competent Authority subject to the provisions of paragraph (1).

27. (1) Where Road Marking RM-11 or RM-12 comprising double continuous lines has been placed along themiddle or about the middle of any road, any vehicle using that road shall keep to the left of the lines so placed and shall notcross or straddle the lines under any circumstances.

(2) Where Road Marking RM-06 comprising a single continuous line has been placed along the middle or about themiddle of any road, any vehicle using that road shall keep to the left of the line so placed and may cross it only for the purposeof turning to the right.

(3) Where Road Markings RM-07 and RM-08 comprising a single continuous line in combination with a broken lineis placed about the middle of the road, no vehicle shall cross the above mentioned two lines to overtake another vehicle onthe side where the continuous line is placed.

(4) Where Road Marking RM-03, RM-04 or RM-05 comprising a broken line has been placed along the middle orabout the middle of any road, any vehicle using that road shall keep to the left of the line so placed and may cross it only forthe purpose of turning right or for the purpose of overtaking a vehicle going ahead. Road Markings RM-03, RM-04 or RM-05 may be placed preceding a Road Marking RM-06 over a length of at least fifty (50) metres.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201510A

(5) Where Road Marking RM-13 comprising a broken line has been placed on any road with or without RoadMarkings RM-03, RM-04 or RM-05, RM-06, RM-07, RM-08, RM-09, RM-10, RM-11, RM-12 or RM-43 to divide the carriagewayinto four or more lanes, all vehicles using such road shall be driven within the traffic lanes so formed. Vehicles shall cross orstraddle the Road Marking RM-13 only for the purpose of overtaking or turning left or right. Vehicles shall be driven on theoutside lanes and the inside lanes shall be used for the purpose of overtaking or turning right, subject to paragraph (1), (2)and (3) of this regulation.

(6) Where the Road Marking RM-40 and or Sign OSD-07 is situated to signify a bus lane along with Road MarkingRM-44 to demarcate a bus lane, no road user other than a public transport vehicle, shall traverse, cross or make use of sucha lane, except where-

(a) it is necessary to avoid an accident or collision with another road user, provided any road user permitted to

use a bus lane or who has the right of way in a bus lane as provided in this regulation, is not endangered inany manner;

(b) that section of carriageway assigned to such other road user is blocked or where there is an obstruction

ahead of that section of the carriageway outside a bus lane so that the most convenient way open for suchother road user to move ahead or out is by using the closest bus lane:

Provided however, that any road user normally permitted to use a bus lane or who has the right of way in abus lane as provided in this Regulation is not endangered in any manner. In such circumstances such otherroad user shall revert to that section of carriageway assigned to him at the earliest opportunity;

(c) a Police Officer directs you to turn left or right or to move along a road which crosses a bus lane; provided

due consideration is given to the safe and smooth operation of vehicles in the bus lane;

(d) a pedestrian is permitted to cross a road according to the provisions of regulation 20 and paragraph (2) of

regulation 32;

(e) a person leaves or enters a vehicle;

(f) it is necessary to load or unload provided such loading or unloading is not prohibited.

(7) (a) Where Road Marking RM-41 and or Sign OSD-09 is placed to denote a cycle lane along with Road MarkingRM-42, and when no other device is used to demarcate such a lane, no road user other than cyclists and any other personson cycles shall traverse, cross or make use of such a lane, except where –

(a) it is beyond the control of such other road user to avoid an accident or collision with another road user

provided any cyclist or any person on a cycle lane is not endangered in any manner;

(b) a Police Officer directs you to turn left or right or to move along a road, which crosses a cycle lane, provided

due consideration is given to the safe and smooth, operation of cycles in the cycle lane;

(c) pedestrian is permitted to cross a road according to the provisions of regulation 20 and paragraph (2) of

regulation 32;

(d) a person leaves or enters a vehicle;

(e) it is necessary to load or unload provided such loading or unloading is not prohibited.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201511A

(8) Where a cycle lane is provided, no cyclist shall leave such lane and move on to any other part or section of a roadwhich is not a part of a cycle lane, except where-

(a) the cycle lane is blocked or where there is an obstruction on the cycle lane which compels cyclists to leave

such a lane in order to proceed ahead. In such circumstances, cyclists shall revert to the cycle lane at theearliest opportunity beyond such a blockage or obstruction, provided consideration is given to safe andsmooth operation of other traffic;

(b) a Police Officer directs you to turn left or right or to move along a road, which crosses a cycle lane, provided

due consideration is given to the safe and smooth, operation of cycles in the cycle lane.

(9) The operation of a bus or cycle lane may be limited to certain hours or times of certain days or certain days of theweek or month as specified in Additional Panels affixed below Sign OSD-07 or OSD-09 placed at the commencement of andalong a bus or cycle lane. Where such a notice has been given, the provisions of paragraphs (6) and (7) of regulation 27 shallapply only during any period of time specified in such notice.

(10) Road Marking RM-43 comprising a broken line placed along any road indicates to a driver of a vehicle of theexistence of a hazard, cautioning such driver not to cross or straddle such Road Marking unless such driver considers it safeto do so. Depending on the situation at the point, Road Marking RM-43 shall be placed on a road preceding Road MarkingRM-06, RM-11 or RM-12 over a length of at least fifty (50) metres.

(11) The Junction Box shall comprise cross hatched diagonal lines bounded by lines along the perimeter of theJunction Box, (hereinafter referred to as "perimeter lines"), and a permitted variant of the Junction Box, any corner of theJunction Box, may be cut away in the manner shown in the bottom right hand corner of Road Marking RM-46 and in the topright hand corner of Road Marking RM-47 to a maximum of ten per centum of the length of the side affected to accommodatea corner kerb and where such variation is not required, the corners of the Junction Box shown as cut away in the aforesaiddiagrams shall be completed in the manner of the other corners not cut away:

Provided however, that –

(a) a perimeter line placed along a curved edge of a carriageway shall be curved accordingly;

(b) the overall shape and size of the Junction Box and the number and lengths of the lines constituting the

Junction Box shall be varied according to the circumstances; and

(c) a perimeter line placed at or near the place where a road meets a junction shall be transverse to the general

direction of the flow of traffic on that road, at that place.

(12) The Junction Box shall be placed on the road carriageway at a junction, other than a roundabout, approved bythe Competent Authority and the requirements conveyed by the Junction Box shall apply concurrently with and shall notover-ride any other requirement applicable for the operation of traffic at the junction conveyed by an appropriate RegulatorySign or Road Marking or appropriate Traffic Light Signals placed at or near the junction and in accordance with the provisionsof the Motor Traffic Act.

28. (1) Road Marking RM-27 which shows the Road Marking required to be placed on the carriageway of a two (2)lane road to indicate a Pedestrian Crossing, the placement of road studs and zigzag marking shall be optional, that is to saythe Road Marking at a Pedestrian Crossing comprise essentially of a band of stripes laid across the carriageway where thepedestrians have the right of way, subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) and (3) of this regulation and paragraph (2) ofregulation 32, and two give way lines similar to Road Marking RM-02 placed across the carriageway on either side of the bandof stripes in conformity with Road Marking RM-27, subject to the provisions of this regulation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201512A

(2) Road Marking RM-28 shows the Road Marking required to be placed on the carriageway of a four (4) lane roadto indicate a Pedestrian Crossing, the placement of studs and zigzag marking are optional. Road Marking RM-29 shows theRoad Marking required to be placed on the carriageway of a pedestrian activated signalized Pedestrian Crossing, theplacement of studs and zigzag marking are optional. Road Markings RM-30 and RM-31 specify the Markings required to beplaced on the carriageway for raised Pedestrian Crossings on two (2) lane and four (4) lane roads, the placement of zigzagmarkings is optional. Road Marking RM-32 shows the Road Marking to be placed on the carriageway for Pedestrian Crossingwith rumble strips on a four (4) lane road; the placement of zigzag marking is optional.

(3) Any reference to a Pedestrian Crossing in these regulations shall mean a reference to:

(a) The band of stripes shown in Road Markings RM-27 to RM-32 placed on a road carriageway in conformity

with these regulations where such a Road Marking is visible; and

(b) That portion of the carriageway whose boundaries across the carriageway are abreast of Sign OSD-01

placed at each side of road, where the Road Marking of a band of stripes is not visible for the time being:

Provided however that in the application and enforcement of provisions of paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) ofthis regulation and paragraph (3) (b) of regulation 32 at a place where a median, a refuge or an island isplaced on or about the middle of a road, the term "Pedestrian Crossing" with respect to vehicles approachingit, shall mean the section of the band of stripes or portion of carriageway referred to in clauses (a) and (b)above as a Pedestrian Crossing, between the said median, refuge or island and the edge of carriagewaywhich will be traversed upon by such vehicles approaching the Pedestrian Crossing and in the case of anysuch Pedestrian Crossing the give-way line, road studs and zigzag markings may be placed only on thatsection of the carriageway which is traversed upon by approaching vehicles in advance of the PedestrianCrossing.

(4) The Sign OSD-01 notifying a Pedestrian Crossing shall be placed at a Pedestrian Crossing facing approachingtraffic on the near side of approaching traffic, outside the carriageway and shall be positioned in line with the edge of theRoad Marking referred to as Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (3) (a) of this regulation, which is nearer to such approachingtraffic. Such a sign shall continue to remain in that position whether the aforesaid Road Marking is visible or not and itsposition be changed only to conform to the aforesaid requirement of this regulation if and when the position or width of theaforesaid Road Marking is altered.

(5) When the Competent Authority considers it necessary road studs and zigzag markings may be providedaccording to the provisions in this regulation, at his discretion.

(6) A Pedestrian Crossing shall be used by pedestrians after waiting with due care given to the vehicles approachingit, or according to the directions given by a Police Officer or according to the indication of a Traffic Light Signal where suchPedestrian Crossing is controlled by such signal.

(7) No pedestrian shall cross a road in such a manner as to cause undue delay to any vehicle stopped in conformitywith the provisions of paragraph (7) of this regulation or paragraph (3) (b) of regulation 32 or cause any obstruction or delayto other pedestrians using the Pedestrian Crossing.

(8) Where a Pedestrian Crossing is provided on a road, no pedestrian shall cross that road at any other place withina distance of fifty (50) metres from that crossing other than at any other Pedestrian Crossing. Such a distance from aPedestrian Crossing shall be taken to be the distances measured along the road from the nearest point of the Road Markingreferred to as Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (1) (a) of this regulation or the distance measured along the road from a pointabreast of the nearer of the Sign OSD-01 placed at a side of the road where the Road marking referred to as PedestrianCrossing in paragraph (3) (a) of this regulation is not visible for the time being.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201513A

(9) Every driver of any vehicle approaching a Pedestrian Crossing shall reduce the speed of such vehicle to enableit to stop at the Give way line of such crossing or before crossing the give-way line or to stop before reaching such crossing,if the give-way line is not visible for the time being, or to stop with no part of the vehicle positioned beyond Sign OSD-01placed at the near side of the road, if the give-way line and the Road Marking referred to as Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph(3) (a) of this regulation are not visible for the time being.

(10) Where any pedestrian is at a Pedestrian Crossing where for the time being, traffic is not controlled by a PoliceOfficer or where Light Signals which give directions to pedestrians to cross the road are not provided or are not functioning,every vehicle approaching such crossing shall be brought to a halt not beyond Give way line of such crossing or beforereaching such a crossing if the Give way line is not visible for the time being, shall be brought to a halt with no part of thevehicle positioned beyond Sign OSD-01 placed at the near side of the road, and where the Road marking referred to asPedestrian Crossing in paragraph (3) (a) of this regulation and the Give way lines are not visible for the time being, and maythereafter proceed with due regard to the safety of any pedestrian using such Pedestrian Crossing.

(11) Every vehicle approaching a Pedestrian Crossing where traffic is for the time being controlled by a PoliceOfficer shall move ahead and traverse that section of the carriageway referred to as the Pedestrian Crossing in paragraph (3)(a) of this regulation according to the directions given by the Police Officer and with due regard to the safety of anypedestrian using the Pedestrian Crossing.

(12) No vehicle shall be stopped whether wholly or partly upon a Pedestrian Crossing or within a distance of thirty(30) metres from a Pedestrian Crossing from the give-way line in the approach side and fifteen (15) metres from the nearest endof pedestrian crossing (sign PDV-05) on the exit side from the pedestrian crossing unless:

(a) such vehicle is prevented from proceeding by circumstances beyond the control of the driver; or

(b) it is necessary to do so in order to avoid an accident.

(13) The width of a Pedestrian Crossing shall be not less than two thousand four hundred (2400) millimetres.

(14) A sign having the symbol in the Sign OSD-01 portraying a pedestrian, crossing the road from the left side to theright side reversed to portray a pedestrian, crossing the road from the right side to the left side but conforming in all otherrespects to the Sign OSD-01 and the requirements specified for the Sign OSD-01 of Schedule III hereto shall have the samestatus.

29. In addition to the Road Markings RM-16, RM-17 or RM-18 the upper and vertical surfaces of the adjoiningkerbs may be painted yellow over the full length of that part of the road to which the prohibition or restriction of parking orparking and standing applies.

TRAFFIC LIGHT SIGNALS – (SCHEDULE VI)

30. Light Signals which may be used for the control of drivers and for the provision of information and directionsto pedestrians at sites approved by the Competent Authority, shall be as specified in the following regulations.

31. (1) Light Signals for control of drivers at intersections of roads and intersections with rail roads shall be of thesize, colour and type specified as follows:

(a) subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) Light Signals, shall comprise three lights, one red, one amber and

one green arranged vertically with the lamp showing a red light being the uppermost and that showing agreen light the lower most. In the alternative Light Signals shall comprise three lights, one red, one amber andone green arranged horizontally and placed vertically above the carriageway. The red light shall be closer tothe centre-line of the carriageway, followed by the amber light and the green light;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201514A

(b) Each lamp shall be separately illuminated and the effective diameter of the lens thereof shall be not less than

one hundred and ninety-five (195) millimetres and not more than three hundred (300) millimetres;

(c) The height of the centre of the amber lens from the surface of the carriageway nearest to it shall be, in the

case of signals placed at the side of the carriageway or a road refuge or a median, not less than two point four(2.4) metres and not more than four (4) metres and in the case of signals placed over the carriageway, not lessthan six point one (6.1) metres and not more than nine (9) metres;

(d) The centres of adjacent lenses shall be not less than three hundred and five (305) millimetres and not more

than four hundred and ten (410) millimetres apart;

(e) No lettering shall be used on the lenses or in connection with a Light Signals; and

(f) The sequence of the Light Signals shown for the purpose of controlling a driver, shall be as follows:

(i) red, (ii) amber and red together, (iii) green, (iv) amber.

(2) The Light Signals specified in paragraph (1) may comprise a lamp with a lens or lamps with lenses of the size,colour and type shown in diagram GAP-01 in the Schedule VI hereto, which when illuminated show a green arrow (hereinafterreferred to as "green arrow") together with red and amber lights, subject to the following provisions-

(a) the alternate positions relative to Light Signals specified in paragraph (1) at which it is permissible by these

regulations to affix the aforesaid green arrow or arrows, shall be the positions denoted as P1, P2, P3, P4, P5and P6 in diagram GAP-02 as well as diagrams GAP-3 to GAP-12 in Schedule VI to these regulations, subjectto conditions specified hereunder:-

(i) where the Light Signals are without a green light, two green arrows or at least one green arrow, as the

case may be, shall be assigned in place of the green light;

(ii) when the Light Signals are with the green light or when the position P1, has been assigned, in

accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) the green arrow or other green arrow, shall beassigned any position P2 or P3; and

(iii) any additional green arrow or arrows may be assigned any position or positions P4, P5 or P6 provided

that the positions P1, P2 and P3 have been assigned in accordance with the provisions of the precedingsub-paragraphs;

(b) the directions in which the arrow of any lamp shown in diagram GAP-01 of the Schedule VI to these

regulations, points may be varied so as to be a direction which lies straight upright or a direction which is atan angle of one hundred and thirty-five (1350) degrees either to the left or to the right of the said uprightdirection, to denote the direction of a road extending from a junction for which separate signal indicationsare considered necessary by the Competent Authority;

(c) notwithstanding the other provisions of this regulation, a green arrow which gives indications to drivers to

turn left at a junction, may be placed separately from the other Light Signals specified in such paragraphs, atthe near side of the road to the vehicle approaching the junction to turn left, with or without a red lamp asspecified in paragraph (1) of this regulation affixed above it. The height of the centre of the lens of such agreen arrow from the surface of carriageway nearest to it, shall be the same as that determined for theposition P1 in accordance with the provisions of this regulation;

(d) the distance between the centre of a lens with a green arrow and the centre of any other lens affixed next in

position immediately above, below or to the side of the first mentioned lens, shall be as specified in sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of this regulation or not less than four hundred and fifteen (415) millimetresand not more than four hundred and forty (440) millimetres if the diameter of the lens of the green arrow is thelarger of the two sizes specified in diagram GAP-01 of Schedule VI to these regulations;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201515A

(e) the methods of fitting green arrows in positions P1, P2, P3, P4, P5 and P6 are indicated in diagrams GAP-03

to GAP-12 of Schedule VI to these regulations;

(f) alternative methods of fitting green arrows on overhead mounted Traffic Light Signals are given in diagrams

GAP-03 to GAP-12 of Schedule VI to these regulations.

32. (1) The significance of Light Signals specified in paragraph (1) of regulation 31 shall be as follows:-

(a) except as provided in paragraph (6) of this regulation, the red signal shall convey a prohibition that drivers

shall not proceed beyond the stop line on the carriageway, provided in conjunction with the signals or if thatline is not for the time being visible or there is no stop line, beyond the nearer of the signals facing suchtraffic;

(b) the amber with red signal shall denote an impending change in the indication given by the signal from red to

green but shall not alter the prohibition conveyed by the red signal;

(c) the green signal shall indicate that driver is required to pass the signals with caution and proceed straight on

or to the left or to the right; and

(d) the amber signal shall, when shown alone, convey the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond the

stop line or, if that line is not for the time being visible or if there is no stop line, beyond the nearer of thesignal facing such traffic, except in the case of any vehicle which, when the signal first appears, is so closeto the said line or signal that it cannot safely be stopped before passing the stop line or the aforesaid signal.

(2) The significance of Light Signals specified in paragraph (2) of regulation 31, shall be as follows:-

(a) subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (2) and paragraph 6 of this regulation, the red

signal shall convey the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond the stop line on the carriageway,provided in conjunction with the signal or if the stop line is not for the time being visible, beyond the nearerof the signal facing such traffic;

(b) subject to the provisions of paragraph (2c) of this Regulation the amber with red signal shall denote an

impending change in the indication given by the signal from red to green where a green signal is provided orfrom red to green arrow or green arrows, but shall not alter the prohibition conveyed by the red signal asspecified in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (2) of this regulation;

(c) a green arrow, till such time as it is illuminated, shall indicate that drivers for whose benefit such a signal is

displayed, is required to pass the signal and proceed along a road extending from the junction in thedirection indicated by the green arrow notwithstanding any other indication given by the other signal;

(d) the green signal where it is provided, shall indicate that driver is required to pass the signal and proceed

straight on or to the left or to the right; and

(e) amber signal shall when shown alone, convey the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond the stop

line or if the stop line is not for the time being visible beyond the nearer of the signal, facing such trafficexcept in the case of any vehicle, which when the signal first appears is so close to the said line or signal thatit cannot safely be stopped before passing the stop line or signal.

(3) (a) Any vehicle passing any Light Signal in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Regulation, shallproceed with due regard to the safety of other road users and subject to the direction of any Police Officer or other dulyauthorized person who may be engaged in the regulation of traffic.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201516A

(b) When a pedestrian is, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (2) of this Regulation, using a PedestrianCrossing where Light Signals which give directions to pedestrians to cross the road, are in operation for the time being, anyvehicle approaching such crossing shall be brought to a halt at a position determined according to requirements specified inparagraph (9) of Regulation 28 for determining the position at which any vehicle is required to be brought to a halt at such aPedestrian Crossing and may thereafter proceed with due regard to the safety of any such pedestrian.

(c) No vehicle passing any Light Signals, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of thisregulation turning right through an intersection into a road, shall cross the path of any vehicle moving into or through theintersection or merge with any vehicles moving into such road in accordance with the indications displayed to such vehiclesby the Light Signals in operation at the intersection, in such a manner or at such a time as is likely to cause danger to suchvehicle or to the driver of any such other aforesaid vehicle or the occupants thereof or to necessitate the drivers of any suchvehicles to change its speed or course:

Provided however, any such vehicle turning right through an intersection, which has to cross the path of anothervehicle turning right through the intersection from another approach road of the intersection at the same time, shall give wayto the other vehicle if the other vehicle is moving from the right side or off side of the former vehicle and any vehicle turningleft on to a road at an intersection, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this regulation, shall giveway to vehicles moving from the right side or off side into or turning into the same aforesaid road in accordance with theindications displayed to such vehicles by the Light Signals in operation at the intersection, when merging with such othervehicles.

(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this regulation, when the green light of Light Signals specified inregulation 31 is displayed, drivers for whose benefit the green light is displayed, must pass the signals and proceed straighton or to the left or to the right to clear the intersection and its immediate approaches as speedily as possible unless such avehicle is prevented from proceeding in such a manner and is compelled to wait, or stop due to reasons beyond the controlof the driver of such vehicle.

(5) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Regulation, where traffic signals are provided in accordancewith paragraph (2) of Regulation 31, vehicles in a lane or on the side of a carriageway meant for traffic required to move in thedirection indicated by a green arrow, where such a green arrow is displayed, must proceed in the direction indicated by thegreen arrow to clear the intersection and its immediate approaches as speedily as possible unless such a vehicle is preventedfrom proceeding in such a manner or is compelled to wait, or stop due to reasons beyond the control of the driver of suchvehicle.

(6) Where a vehicle is required to respond to any emergency call and used by Fire brigade, Ambulance or Police orArmed services and the observance of the prohibition conveyed by the red signal as provided in paragraphs (1) and (2) ofthis regulation, would be likely to hinder the use of that vehicle for such purposes, then such vehicles are exempted from theobservance of such a prohibition and may proceed beyond the stop line or the nearer of the signal facing such traffic, as thecase may be, in such a manner or at such a time as is not likely to cause danger to any other road user proceeding on or fromanother road or on or from another part of the same road, in accordance with the Light Signals operating there in associationwith such red signal.

(7) The stop line referred to in these regulations shall mean the Road Marking RM-01 described in regulation 12 andillustrated in the Schedule V to these regulations.

LIGHT SIGNALS FOR PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS (SCHEDULE VI)

33. (1) Subject to provisions of paragraph (3) of this regulation, Light Signals used to give directions to onlypedestrians to cross a road which may be used in conjunction with Light Signals prescribed in regulation 31, shall be of thesize, colour and type and designed and placed as follows :-

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201517A

(a) subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this Regulation, Light Signals for pedestrians shall comprise

two Light Signals, one of which shall be internally illuminated by a steady light to display an image of astanding pedestrian in red (hereinafter referred to as the "red signal" and the other internally illuminated bya steady light to display an image of a walking pedestrian in green (hereinafter referred to as the "greensignal"), as shown in diagrams LSP-01 and LSP-02 of the Schedule VI to these regulations and when onesignal is illuminated, the other shall not be illuminated;

(b) the two Light Signals referred to in sub-paragraph (a) shall be arranged vertically with the red signal being

at the top and the green signal at the bottom;

(c) the height of the lower edge of the container enclosing the Light Signals from the surface of the carriageway

nearest to it, shall be not less than two point one (2.1) metres and not more than two point six (2.6) metres;and

(d) Light Signals for pedestrians shall be placed facing across the carriageway and so shielded to exclude the

possibility of their being mistaken by drivers for Light Signals for vehicular traffic.

(2) (a) The period during which pedestrians should not cross the carriageway for their safety, shall be indicated byan illuminated red signal.

(b) The period during which, pedestrians should cross the carriageway for their safety, shall be shown by anilluminated green Light Signal subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of this regulation.

(3) Where provision has been made for the green signal to flash by displaying the illuminated green imageintermittently immediately after the period during which the said image was illuminated by a steady non-flashing green light,the red signal shall be illuminated immediately after the flashing green signal is extinguished. The indications given by sucha flashing green signal is an impending change to red and conveys the warning to pedestrians who have not already steppedonto the carriageway for crossing it, that in the interests of their safety they should not step on to the carriageway to crossit after such flashing green signal appeared.

(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of this regulation, pedestrian controlled signals activatedby the operation of a push button as indicated in diagram LSP-03 may be provided to enable pedestrians to obtain right ofway on demand. Where such pedestrian controlled signals are provided and if the signal for the pedestrian is red, thepedestrians shall press the push button and wait until the green man appears for the pedestrians and the red signal for themotorized traffic before stepping on to the Pedestrian Crossing.

FLASHING LIGHT SIGNALS (SCHEDULE VI)

34. Flashing Light Signals which display intermittent red or amber lights, may be used to give indications to driversat sites approved by the Competent Authority, subject to the provisions of the following Regulations.

35. (1) Flashing Light Signals which may be used only at unprotected railway level crossings, ferry boat landingstages, jetties or at places where aircrafts fly across the road at low altitudes, shall be of the size, colour and type specifiedas follows:-

(a) a pair of lamps with each lamp showing an intermittent red light shall be used;

(b) the effective diameter of the lens of each lamp shall be not less than one hundred and ninety five (195)

millimetres and not more than three hundred (300) millimetres;

(c) each lamp shall be separately illuminated and when the signal is operated, each lamp shall show its intermittent

red light at a rate of flashing of not less than sixty (60) flashes and not more than ninety (90) flashes, perminute and in such a manner that the light of one lamp is always illuminated at a time when the light of theother lamp is not illuminated ; and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201518A

(d) the lamps shall be affixed and placed so that the centres of their lenses shall be at the same horizontal level

at a height above the surface of the carriageway nearest to them in the case of signals placed at the side ofthe carriageway or on a road refuge or median not less than two point four (2.4) metres and not more thanfour (4) metres and in the case of signals placed over the carriageway not less than six point one (6.1) metresand not more than nine (9) metres and the distance between the centres of the lenses of the pair of lampsshall not be less than five hundred and fifty (550) millimetres and not more than six hundred and forty (640)millimetres.

(2) The significance of the red flashing Light Signal specified in this regulation shall be that the intermittent redlights when displayed, conveys the prohibition that drivers shall not proceed beyond that light.

36.(1) A single amber flashing light or a pair of amber flashing lights shall be of the size, colour and type specifiedas follows :-

(a) where a single amber flashing light is used, it shall be placed with the centre of its lens at a height above the

surface of the carriageway nearest to it, and in the case of a signal placed at the side of the carriageway or ona road refuge or median it shall be placed not less than two point four (2.4) metres and not more than four (4)metresand in the case of a signal placed over the carriageway not less than six point one (6.1) metres and notmore than nine (9) metres. Such a lamp shall show its intermittent amber light at a rate of flashing not lessthan one hundred and twenty (120) flashes and not more than one hundred and fifty (150) flashes per minuteand the period between flashes shall not exceed one-fourth of a second and such a lamp shall have a lens ofeffective diameter as specified in paragraph (b) of regulation 35;

(b) where a pair of flashing amber lights are used, the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of

paragraph (1) of regulation 35 shall apply to such signals with the modifications that the word "amber" shallbe substituted for the word "red" wherever the latter word appears in these paragraphs.

(2) The driver of any vehicle proceeding pass amber flashing light signal shall drive with caution.

(3) Amber flashing Light Signals may be placed at approaches to intersections or at intersections without TrafficLight Signals or at intersections with Traffic Signals, provided the flashing amber Light Signals are operated only at timeswhen the Traffic Light Signals are not operated.

PROHIBITED DISTANCE FOR PARKING OF VEHICLES – (SCHEDULE VII)

37. (1) The Competent Authority may restrict or prohibit parking of vehicles by Signs PHS-23 to PHS-26 or by RoadMarkings shown in Schedule V to these regulations, in the following places:-

(a) Within twenty five metres (25m) of an intersection on a major or within ten metres (10m) of an intersection on

a minor road. (diagram PDV-01 to PDV-04);

(b) Within thirty metres (30m) on approach of a omnibus stopping place and fifteen metres (15m) on the departure

side of a omnibus stopping place. (diagram PDV-05);

(c) Inside an area which is designated as a omnibus stopping bay within fifteen metres (15m) on the approach

to the bay and ten metres (10m) from the departure point of the omnibus stopping bay. (diagram PDV-06);

(d) Within thirty metres (30m) from a Pedestrian Crossing along the near side of the approach to the Pedestrian

Crossing or within fifteen metres (15m) of the departure side of Pedestrian Crossing or on a PedestrianCrossing. (diagram PDV-07); or

(e) Within fifty metres (50m) of the approach side of traffic light at an intersection or within thirty metres (30m)

of pedestrian operated traffic lights not at an intersection and fifteen metres (15m) of the departure side ofpedestrian operated traffic signals. (diagram PDV-08 and PDV-09).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201519A

(2) The distance for this purpose shall be measured and marked for road markings as shown in diagrams (PDV-01and PDV-09) in Schedule VII to these regulations.

DIRECTION INDICATOR SIGNALS (SCHEDULE VIII)

38. Direction indicator signals are signals-

(a) Given to inform the other road users of the driver’s intention to move to right or turn right;

(b) Given to indicate to other road users of the driver’s intention to move to the left or turn left or stop on the left;

and(c) Given to inform the other road users of the driver’s intention to slow down or to stop.

TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR ARM SIGNALS (SCHEDULE VIII)

39. (1) Police Officers on traffic duty or traffic wardens may use Traffic Control Devices or Arm Signals as arespecified in Schedule VIII to these regulations for the purpose of conveying to traffic on a specified road, a requirement or awarning that must be followed by the drivers of vehicles thereon.

(2) Traffic Control Signals given by direction indicator signals are used to indicate to other road users of theintention of a driver to make certain manoeuvres.

HAZARD INFORMATION PANELS (PLATES) (SCHEDULE IX)

40. (1) Any person transporting dangerous goods or hazardous substances, (whether comprising liquid, solid orgas) shall have affixed or cause to be affixed in the centre of all four sides of the container, motor vehicle or vehicle used forthe purpose of such transport, the relevant "Hazard Information Panel (Plate)" as are depicted in Schedule IX to theseregulations in a vertical position, so that every letter and figure of the warning plate is in a vertical position so as to be easilydistinguishable.

(2) In the event of any spillage or fire from any vehicle bearing Hazard Information Panels (Plate) all persons usingthe road should keep well away from the spillage and place which fine occured and forthwith inform the police, fire brigadeand the respective disaster management centres.

GENERAL

41. (1) In providing signs conforming to these regulations or in modifying old signs to conform to these regulationsin an expressway, in a built-up area, in part of a built up area, or at a particular site in a built-up area, the Competent Authoritymay adopt such larger dimensions applicable to a non-built-up area for any such signs as specified in Schedules I, II or III tothese regulations.

(2) A dimension other than a dimension as to the height of a letter or a dimension expressed as being the maximumor minimum specified in any of the Signs/diagrams in Schedules I, II, III, V or VI to these regulations,as the case may be, maybe varied, if the variations:

(a) in the case of a dimension so specified as three hundred (300) millimetres or more than three hundred (300)

millimetres does not exceed five (5) per centum of that dimension;

(b) in the case of a dimension so specified as fifty (50) millimetres or more than fifty (50) millimetres but not

exceeding three hundred (300) millimetres, does not exceed seven point five (7.5) per centum of that dimension;or

(c) in the case of a dimension so specified as not exceeding fifty (50) millimetres does not exceed ten (10) per

centum of that dimension.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201520A

(3) A dimension as to the height of a letter specified in any of the Signs/diagrams in Schedules I, II or III to theseregulations may be varied if the variation-

(a) in the case of a dimension so specified as one hundred (100) millimetres or more than one hundred (100)

millimetres does not exceed five (5) per centum of that dimension; or

(b) in the case of a dimension so specified as not exceeding one hundred (100) millimetres, does not exceed

seven point five (7.5) per centum of that dimension.

(4) Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph (5) of this regulation, dimensions other than the one expressedas being the maximum specified for Road Markings in any of the diagrams in the Schedule V to these regulations, may bevaried if the variation –

(a) in the case of a dimension so specified as three (3) metres or more than three (3) metres does not exceed

fifteen (15) per centum of that dimension;

(b) in the case of a dimension so specified as three hundred (300) millimetres or more than three hundred (300)

millimetres, but not exceeding three (3) metres, does not exceed twenty (20) per centum of that dimension; or

(c) in the case of a dimension so specified as not exceeding three hundred (300) millimetres where the actual

dimension exceeds the dimension so specified, but does not exceed thirty (30) per centum of the dimensionso specified, and where the actual dimension is less than the dimension so specified, but does not exceedtwenty (20) per centum of the dimension so specified.

(5) A dimension as to the angle of hatching specified in diagrams RM-20, RM-21 and RM-22 may be varied, if thevariation does not exceed five (5o) degrees.

(6) Any dimension given in numerals without any unit of measurement of the dimension in any Signs / diagram ofany Schedule to these regulations, shall be taken to be in millimetres. The letter ‘m’ given along with any dimension in anydiagram of any Schedule or within brackets in Schedules I, II or III to these regulations, shall denote metres and letters ‘mm’used similarly shall denote millimetres.

42. (1) Information which may have to be given descriptively using words on any Additional Panel affixed belowany sign and the information required to be given in signs categorized as Informative Signs or Miscellaneous Signs, shall bein the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.

(2) Words used in Road Markings shall be in letters elongated in the direction of traffic as specified in the ScheduleIV to these regulations, with no more than two words at any one place or for any purpose.

43. (1) Where any instruction, information or symbol of an old sign is materially different from any instruction,information or symbol in the corresponding signs specified in these regulations the Competent Authority shall cause suchold sign to be replaced by the corresponding sign specified in these regulations or shall cause it to be made to conform to therequirements specified in these regulations:-

(a) in the case of an old sign other than Road Markings or Traffic Light Signals within three years from the date

on which these regulations shall come into operation; and

(b) in the case of a Road Marking or Traffic Light Signals within six months from the date on which these

regulations shall come into operation.

(2) Any old sign other than a Road Marking or Traffic Light Signal may exist alongside or close to the correspondingnew signs for a period not exceeding three months from the date on which a new sign, as specified in paragraph (1) is erected:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201521A

Provided however, the two signs should not convey meanings which are different or conflicting in their enforcementand application. If an old sign conveys a different or conflicting meaning the new signs erected under these regulations shalloverride those conveyed by the old sign.

44. On the reverse side of every traffic sign or notice placed, erected or exhibited in conformity with these regulations,the Competent Authority shall cause to be displayed in letters not less than twenty-five (25) millimetres in height, the officialdesignation of the Competent Authority immediately preceded by the words "By Order of".

45. Any numbers shown in Signs/diagrams illustrating Restrictive Signs RSS-01 to RSS-09, Additional Panels APR-01, APR-02, APR-03 and APR-06 and RNS-01 to RNS-04 any numbers, names or descriptions shown in Informative SignsIS(NH) – 01 to IS (NH)- 11, IS (PR)-01 to IS (PR) -05 and IS (EX)-01 to IS (EX)-07 in Schedule III to these regulations other thanthe dimensions of signs are only given as illustrations and shall be substituted in such actual signs with numbers, names,descriptions appropriate or applicable to the situations or specific purposes for which such signs are located. In the case ofAdvance Direction Signs IS (NH) -01 to IS (NH) -06 the direction of any arrow shown in the diagrams shall be varied to accordwith direction applicable to the situation for which such a sign is provided.

46. (1) Any sign or component of a sign specified in regulation 3, 15 and 21 may be reflectorised according to thedirections given by the Competent Authority using suitable reflecting material.

(2) Any post placed or erected at the side of a road or on a road refuge, median or an island, to which is fixed, a sign,specified in these regulations, shall be painted in black and white strips alternatively.

(3) Traffic Signs shall be so erected that the mounting height is such that the drivers approaching the Signs canconveniently read and understand the Signs. The Signs shall be erected such that the mounting height to the lowest edge ofthe Sign is between one thousand (1000) millimetres and one thousand five hundred (1500) millimetres above the level of thecarriageway. However, if the Signs are to be erected on pedestrian foot walks, or on shoulders, the mounting height shall betwo thousand one hundred (2100) millimetres above the level of the carriageway. Where additional Panels are fixed to theSigns, the height shall be to the lowest edge of the Additional Panel. Where Overhead Signs are provided, the lowest edgeof the Sign shall not be less than five (5) metres above the level of the carriageway. The nearest edge of the Sign shall not beless than one thousand (1000) millimetres from the edge of the carriageway.

(4) The dimensions indicated in the Schedules are given in millimetres. Where three alternative figures are shownfor a single dimension:-

(a) the first figure denotes the size of the Sign installed in built-up areas;

(b) the second figure denotes the size of the Sign installed in non-built-up areas;

(c) the third figure denotes the size of the Sign installed for Expressways.

47. No person shall-

(a) fix to a sign, to its support or to any other Traffic Control Device anything not connected with the purpose

for which such sign or device is provided. The Competent Authority may authorize a non-profit makingassociation or institution to install Informative Signs or the emblem of that association to appear on the signor in its support provided it does not make it difficult to understand the sign;

(b) install any board, notice, advertisement, markings or devices which might be confused with the signs and

signals or other Traffic Control Devices, might render them less visible or effective or might dazzle road usersor distract their attention in a way prejudicial to traffic safety.

48. No person shall erect, exhibit or maintain or so as to be visible from a road or a private road, any sign, notice ormarking appearing to be intended for the guidance of road users without the prior approval of the Competent Authority.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201522A

49. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions made under these regulations shall be guilty of an offenceunder the Motor Traffic Act.

50. In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires:-

"articulated vehicle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"built-up area" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"Competent Authority" means, in relation to Expressways and National Highways, Provincial Roads and

Pradeshiya Sabha roads, respectively –

(a) the Road Development Authority established under the Road Development Authority Act, No. 73

of 1981, or any other Authority which may be specially established;

(b) Provincial Road Development Authority; or

(c) The Local Authorites

empowered under section 164 of the Motor Traffic Act to erect Traffic Signs, Notices, Signals,Road Markings and Symbols;

"depressable road stud" means a road stud in which the dome shaped central portion compresses on the

application of a load, (such as a wheel of a vehicle) and regains its original shape when the load isremoved;

"direction of traffic" or "direction of movement of traffic at any place on a road" means the normal direction

in which vehicles move ahead along the road carriageway, excluding those vehicles which are in theact of overtaking or turning left or right;

"driver" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"expressway" shall have the same meaning as is assigned to it in the National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40

of 2008;

"inside lane" means in the case of a road without a median the lane closest to the middle of the road on that

side of the road carriageway, and in the case of a road with a median, the lane closest to the medianon that side of the road carriageway;

"interchange" means a location where two road cross at different levels and are connected to each other by

means of connecting ramps;

"island" means a device placed or constructed on a road as a distinct Road Marking or standing above the

surface of the carriageway or as a combination of both, which physically separates traffic approachingit in the same direction into two traffic lanes;

"median" means a device placed or constructed over a length of road at or about the middle of a road as a

distinct Road Marking or standing above the surface of the carriageway or as a combination of bothto physically separate traffic moving in opposite direction on either side of the road and includesAsphalt Strips;

"moped" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"motor coach or bus" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"motor cycle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"motor vehicle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201523A

"road" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"non built-up area" means all areas outside the built-up area or an area not considered to be a built-up area;

"outside lane" means the traffic lane on a side of the road carriageway, adjoining the edge of road carriageway,

and in the case of a road with a median means the lane adjoining the edge of the carriageway;

"parking" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"parking place" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"motor car" means motor vehicle, other than a motor cycle, intended for the transport of passengers and

which is capable of seating not more than nine persons (including the driver), and shall include a taxior a hired vehicle, provided that they have fewer than ten seats;

"pedestrian" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"permissible maximum weight" means total of the weight of the vehicle when stationary and ready for the

road (including the weight of the driver and all persons carried at the same time);

"principal road at an intersection" means, the road which carries a substantially higher volume of traffic

than any other road at that intersection or the road which has a greater demand for fast travel byvehicles using it, compared to the other roads at the intersection or the wider road than the otherroads at an intersection if such a road does not carry an appreciably higher volume of traffic than anyother road at the intersection;

"provincial road" means a road coming under the purview of a Provincial Council and administered by the

respective Provincial Council or a local authority;

"level crossing" means any level intersection between a road and a railway track;

"reflectorise" means to apply a suitable paint, material or coating on a sign or on a component or components

of a sign, or to paint or fabricate a sign using suitable material so that the sign or the relevantcomponent or components gets illuminated in the night by reflecting light from an outside source oflight, without causing a glare, for greater discernibility in the night;

"refuge" means a device placed or constructed on or about the middle of a road on either side of a

Pedestrian Crossing standing above the surface of the carriageway to physically separate trafficmoving in opposite directions or in the same direction on a wide road, at the Pedestrian Crossing andas a protective or safety measure for the pedestrians;

"road stud" means a device, some of which is used as a component of a Road marking or as a Road

Marking with a dome shaped central portion protruding from a circular disc like or flat base made oftransparent plastic or a rubber like material which could be surmounted by a wheel of a vehicle,traversing a road without an impediment to its movement;

"shoulder" means the section of the road platform immediately adjacent to the road carriageway and

supporting the road pavement structure;

"standing" means keeping vehicle stationery only for the time needed to pick up or set down persons or to

load or unload goods;

"straddles a Road marking" means a vehicle moves over a Road Marking or part of a Road Marking or

moves covering a Road Marking or a part of it, or a vehicle remains stationary over or covering aRoad Marking or part of it, without crossing it;

"The Highway Code" means a code which illustrates the provisions of these Regulations consisting of

directions as appear to be suitable for the guidance of persons using roads and includes directionsrelating to prohibition, regulation and control of traffic; and

"tractor" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

"motor vehicle" shall have the same meaning as in section 240 of the Motor Traffic Act;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201524A

DWS-01Left Bend Ahead

DWS-02Right Bend Ahead

DWS-03Double Bend to LeftAhead

DWS-04Double Bend to RightAhead

DWS-05Hair Pin Bend to RightAhead

DWS-06Hair Pin Bend to LeftAhead

DWS-07Dual Carriage-way Ends

A place on a road ahead where thereis a sharp bend to the left.

A place on a road ahead where thereis a sharp bend to the right.

A place ahead where two bends ona road are in close proximity to eachother, the first being towards the leftand the second to the right.

A place ahead where two bends ona road are in close proximity to eachother, the first being towards theright and the second to the left.

A place on a road ahead where thereis a hair-pin bend to the right.

A place on a road ahead where thereis a hair-pin bend to the left.

End of a dual carriageway of a roadahead.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription1. Danger Warning Signs

Schedule I

All dimensions are in millimetres

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201525A

A place ahead where the dualcarriageway of a road starts.

A place ahead where the roadnarrows on both sides.

A place ahead where the roadnarrows on the left hand side.

A place ahead where the roadnarrows on the right hand side

A junction ahead of twointersecting roads.

A place on a major road with astaggered junction ahead wheretwo side roads intersect themajor road close to each otherwith the first side road towardsthe left and the second sideroad to the right.

A place on a major road with astaggered junctions aheadwhere two side roads intersectthe major road close to eachother with the first side roadtowards the right and thesecond side road to the left.

DWS-08Dual Carriage-wayStarts Ahead

DWS-09Road Narrows Ahead

DWS-10Road Narrows on theLeft Side Ahead

DWS-11Road Narrows on theRight Side Ahead

DWS-12Cross Roads Ahead

DWS-13Staggered JunctionAhead with First SideRoad to Left

DWS-14Staggered JunctionAhead with First SideRoad to Right

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201526A

DWS-15'T' Junction Ahead

DWS-16'Y' Junction Ahead

DWS-17Traffic From Left MergesAhead

DWS-18Side Road From LeftIntersects at RightAngle Ahead

DWS-19Traffic From RightMerges Ahead

DWS-20Side Road From RightIntersects at RightAngle Ahead

DWS-21Narrow Bridge or CulvertAhead

A place ahead where one roadmeets another to form a “T”junction.

A “Y” junction of three roads aheadmeeting at a common place.

A junction ahead where a side roadon the left merges with the majorroad.

A junction ahead where a side roadon the left intersects the major roadat right angles.

A junction ahead where a side roadon the right merges with the majorroad.

A junction ahead where a side roadon the right intersects the majorroad at right angles.

A place ahead where there is anarrow bridge or culvert

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201527A

DWS-22Two-way Traffic Ahead

DWS-23Stop Ahead

DWS-24Give Way Ahead

DWS-25Roundabout Ahead

DWS-26Light Signals Ahead

DWS-27Dangerous DescentAhead

DWS-28Dangerous Ascent Ahead

A section of road, ahead temporarilyor permanently carrying two-waytraffic on the same carriageway.

A place on a minor road aheadwhere traffic has to stop and givepriority to traffic on the major road itintersects or meets according toRegulation 10.

A place on a road ahead where traffichas to give way to traffic on the majorroad it intersects or meets beforeentering the junction according toRegulation 10.

A place ahead where two or more roadsintersect with a circular centre island inthe middle and traffic has to moveround the centre island in clockwisedirection referred to as a roundabout.

An intersection ahead controlled byTraffic Light Signals.

A section of a road ahead wherethere is a steep downward gradient.

A section of a road ahead wherethere is a steep upward gradient.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201528A

DWS-29Slippery Road Ahead

DWS-30Loose Aggregate/Gravel Ahead

DWS-31Falling Rocks Ahead

DWS-32Pedestrian CrossingAhead

DWS-33Children present/crossing Ahead

DWS-34Blind people crossingAhead

DWS-35Road Work Ahead

A place or a section of a road aheadwhich is slippery and liable forskidding.

A road section ahead with looseaggregate / gravel on thecarriageway.

A place or a section of a road aheadwhere there is a risk of rocks fallingon to the carriageway or wherefallen rocks may lie on thecarriageway.

A place on a road ahead wherepedestrians cross the carriageway

A place along a road ahead where aschool or playground is located inthe vicinity and where children stayon the road or cross frequently.

A place ahead where blind peoplefrequently cross the carriageway, ata Pedestrian Crossing ahead.

A place on a road ahead where menare working on the carriageway androadwork is in progress.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201529A

A railway level crossingprotected by gates ahead.

An unprotected railway levelcrossing ahead.

A place on a road ahead wherea bus lane is reserved for theuse of buses.

A place on a road ahead wherea bicycle lane is reserved forthe use of bicycles.

A place ahead where cyclistsenter or cross the road.

A place ahead where cattle and/or other animals may cross theroad or may be found on theroad.

A place ahead where the road ison a quay or a place where aside of the road drops steeplyinto a river, lake, water-course,waterway or sea.

DWS-36Level Crossing withGates Ahead

DWS-37Unprotected LevelCrossing Ahead

DWS-38Bus Lane Ahead

DWS-39Cycle Lane Ahead

DWS-40Cyclist crossingAhead

DWS-41Cattle Crossing Ahead

DWS-42Road Ahead on a Quay

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201530A

DWS-43Dangerous Side SlopesAhead

DWS-44Road Hump Ahead

DWS-45Uneven Road Ahead

DWS-46Dip or CausewayAhead

DWS-47Hump Bridge Ahead

DWS-48Tunnel Ahead

DWS-49Low flying Air CraftsAhead

A narrow road section ahead wherethe side slopes are dangerouslysteep.

A place on a road ahead wherehumps have been formed toreduce vehicle speed.

A place on a road ahead where thecarriageway is dangerouslyuneven.

A dip ahead on the road orcauseway

A place on a road ahead where ahump bridge is located

A place on a road ahead where atunnel is located

An area ahead for low flyingaircraft

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201531A

DWS-50Railway Level CrossingAhead

DWS-51Railway Level CrossingComprising Two orMore Tracks ahead

A place on a road ahead wherethere is a railway level crossing

A place on a road ahead wherethere is a railway level crossingcomprising two or more tracks

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule I (contd.)

APD-01Distance to a Hazardoussection of a road

APD-02Length of a Hazardoussection of a road

APD-03Direction to a Hazard onan Intersecting Road

APD-04School (supplementinga Warning Sign) to beaffixed to Sign DWS-33

A panel used to indicate thedistance from the sign to thebeginning of a dangeroussection of a road

A panel used to indicate thelength of a hazardous sectionof a road

A panel used to indicate thedirection to a hazard on anintersecting road where thedistance from theintersection to the hazard isshort

A panel fixed to the DangerWarning Sign DWS-33, childrencrossing ahead, when thewarning applies to a road sectionat a school

(A) ADDITIONAL PANELS TO BE USED WITH DANGERS WARNING SIGNS

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201532A

Schedule II

All dimensions are in millimetres

2. REGULATORY SIGNS(a) Prohibitory Signs

PHS-01No Entry

PHS-02No Left Turn

PHS-03No Right Turn

PHS-04No U-turn

PHS-05No Overtaking

PHS-06End of No Overtaking

No entry for vehicular traffic toenter a particular road.

No left turn for vehicular traffic atan intersection.

No right turn for vehicular trafficat an intersection.

U turns prohibited for vehiculartraffic.

Overtaking of power drivenvehicles other than two-wheeledmopeds and two wheeled motorcycles without sidecar isprohibited.

End of prohibition of overtakingconveyed by Sign PHS-05

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201533A

PHS-07Overtaking by GoodsVehicles Prohibited

PHS-08End of Overtakingby Goods Vehicles

PHS-09No Horning

PHS-10Road Closed for allvehicles

PHS-11Road closed forMotor vehicles

PHS-12Road Closed forBuses

PHS-13Road Closed forLorries

Overtaking of power drivenvehicles other than two-wheeledmopeds and two wheeled motorcycles without sidecar by goodsvehicles exceeding 3.5 tons isprohibited.

End of prohibition of overtakingconveyed by Sign PHS-07.

Sound signals are prohibited at alocation or section of road.

All vehicles are prohibited fromentering a particular road orsection of road.

Motor vehicles are prohibitedfrom entering a road or a sectionof road.

Buses are prohibited fromentering a particular road orsection of road.

Lorries are prohibited fromentering a particular road orsection of road.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201534A

PHS-14Road closed forArticulated vehicles

PHS-15Road Closed for PowerDriven AgriculturalVehicles

PHS-16Road closed for HandTractors

PHS-17Road Closed forThree-Wheelers

PHS-18Road Closed forMotorcycles

PHS-19Road Closed forCycles

PHS-20Road Closed forAnimal-drawnVehicles

Articulated vehicles areprohibited from entering a road ora section of road.

Power driven agricultural vehiclesare prohibited from entering aroad or a section of road.

Hand tractors are prohibited fromentering a road or a section of aroad.

Three wheelers are prohibitedfrom entering a road or a sectionof a road.

Motor cycles are prohibited fromentering a road or a section of aroad.

Cyclists are prohibited fromentering a road or a section of aroad.

Animal drawn vehicles areprohibited from entering a road ora section of a road.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201535A

PHS-21Road Closed forHand carts

PHS-22Road Closed forPedestrians

PHS-23No Parking

PHS-24No Parking andStanding

PHS-25No Parking onOdd days

PHS-26No Parking onEven days

Hand carts are prohibited fromentering a road or a section of aroad.

Pedestrians are prohibited fromentering a road or a section of aroad.

Parking of vehicles is prohibitedon the side of the road where thesign is situated.

Parking and standing of vehiclesis prohibited on the side of theroad where the sign is situated.

Parking of vehicles is prohibitedon odd days of the month(1, 3, 5,7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25,27, 29, 31 of the month) on theside of road where the sign issituated.

Parking of vehicles is prohibitedon even days of the month (2, 4,6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24,26, 28, 30 of the month) on theside of road where the sign issituated.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201536A

Vehicles or Vehicles and load, ofoverall width exceeding widthindicated are prohibited.

Vehicles, or Vehicles and load, ofoverall height exceeding heightindicated are prohibited.

Vehicles, or Vehicles and load,exceeding weight indicated areprohibited.

Vehicles, or Vehicles and load,exceeding axle weight indicatedare prohibited.

Vehicle categories - Motor cars,dual purpose vehicles, motorcycles, Motor coaches and motorlorries are prohibited fromtravelling at speed limit indicated,applicable for built up areas orhilly terrain except for 3 wheelersand tractors.

Vehicle categories - Motor cars,dual purpose vehicles and motorcycles are prohibited fromtravelling at speed limitindicated, applicable for non-builtup areas.

RSS-01Width Limit

RSS-02Height Limit

RSS-03Weight Limit

RSS-04Weight Limit onOne Axle

RSS-05vehicles withinbuilt-up areas exceptfor 3 wheelers and landvehicles

RSS-06Speed Limit for lightvehicles outsidebuilt-up areas

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

(b) Restrictive Signs

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201537A

RSS-07Speed Limit for heavyvehicles in nonbuilt-up areas

RSS-08Speed Limit for 3 wheelersand land vehicles inbuilt-up and nonbuilt-up areas

RSS-09Speed Limit for all vehicleswithin school areas andhospitals or any otherspecificed location

RSS-10End of Speed Limit

Vehicle categories - Motorcoaches and motor lorries areprohibited from travelling atspeed exceeding speed limitindicated, applicable for non-built up areas.

Vehicle categories - Motortricycle vans, motor tricycles,land vehicles and steam drivenmotor vehicles are prohibitedfrom travelling at speedexceeding speed limit indicated,applicable for built up and non-built up areas.

Vehicles prohibited fromtravelling at speed exceedingspeed limit indicated, applicablefor locations where there areschools, hospitals or any otherspecified places for allcategories of vehicles.The figure indicated shall beapplicable.

End of prohibition of speed limitconveyed by Sign PHS-05. Thenumerals indicated in the signmay be changed depending onthe specified speed limit

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201538A

MNS-01Turn Left

MNS-02Turn Right

MNS-03Straight Ahead

MNS-04Turn Left Ahead

MNS-05Turn Right Ahead

MNS-06Pass Left Side

MNS-07Pass Right Side

Vehicular traffic must turn left atan intersection.

Vehicular traffic must turn right atan intersection.

Vehicular traffic must proceedstraight ahead at an intersection.

Vehicular traffic must turn leftahead at an intersection.

Vehicular traffic must turn rightahead at an intersection.

Vehicular traffic passing the signmust keep to the left of the signindicated by the arrow on thesign.

Vehicular traffic passing the signmust keep to the right of the signas indicated by the arrow on thesign.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

(c) Mandatory SignsSchedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201539A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

MNS-08Pass either side

MNS-09CompulsoryRoundabout

Vehicular traffic passing the signmay keep to the left or to the rightof the sign as indicated by thearrows.

Vehicles entering the intersectionmust give priority to vehicles fromthe right at the transverse RoadMarking RM-02 of Schedule 5placed on the carriageway or if theRoad Marking is not visible, at theroad intersection, and proceedbeyond in conformity with thedirection indicated by arrows, in aclockwise sense at theroundabout.

(d) Priority Signs

PRS-01Stop to give priorityto vehicles on theadjacent road

PRS-02Give Way to vehicleson the adjacent road

Notification to drivers on a roadthat they must stop and givepriority to vehicles on theadjacent road which the roadintersects, in accordance with therequirements specified inparagraph (1) of Regulation 10.

Notification to drivers on a roadthat they must give way tovehicles on the adjacent road,which they enter, in accordancewith the requirements specified inparagraph (2) of Regulation 10.

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201540A

PRS-03Priority Road tovehicles on themajor road

PRS-04End of Priority given tovehicles on the majorroad

PRS-05Priority for theOncoming Traffic

PRS-06Priority over OncomingTraffic Vehicles

Notification to drivers of vehicleson a major road which intersectsa minor road that drivers ofvehicles on the minor roadentering the major road at theintersection are required to givepriority to vehicles on the majorroad in conformity withparagraph (1) or paragraph (2) ofRegulation 10.

Notification to drivers of vehicleson a major road that prioritygiven to drivers on the major roadas notified by Sign PRS-03 ends.

Notification to drivers of vehiclesapproaching a narrow section ofa road that they shall give priorityto on coming vehicles over thenarrow section of the road

Notification to drivers of vehiclesapproaching a narrow section ofa road that drivers of vehiclesmoving in opposite direction arerequired to give priority tooncoming vehicles over thenarrow section of road.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201541A

ADDITIONAL PANELS TO BE USED WITH REGULATORY SIGNS

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

APR-01Distance to aRegulation

APR-02Length of aRegulation sign

APR-03Start of Regulationfor Parking andStanding Prohibition

APR-04Direction ofRegulation forParking andStanding Prohibition

APR-05End of Regulationfor Parking andStanding Prohibition

A panel used to indicate thedistance from the sign to thebeginning of a Regulation

A panel used to indicate thelength of a Regulation indicatedby a Regulatory Sign

A panel used to indicate thestart of Regulation for theparking or the parking andstanding prohibition

A panel used to indicate thecontinuation of Regulation forthe parking or the parking andstanding

A panel used to indicate theend of Regulation for theparking or the parking andstanding

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201542A

APR-06Time Limitation ofParking Prohibitionor Parking andStandingProhibition anddirection of theprohibition

APR-07Exemption fromRegulation to beaffixed toSign RSS-09

APR-08School or any otherspecified places(supplementing aRegulatory Sign) -To be affixed toSign RSS-09

APR-09To be affixed toSpeed Limit SignRSS-05

A panel used to indicate thetime during which a Parkingprohibition or Parking andStanding prohibition appliesand the direction or directionsof the prohibition

A panel fixed to a ProhibitorySign to indicate exemptionfrom the prohibition. The texton the panel may varydepending on the exemption

A panel fixed to a RegulatorySign RSS-09 to indicate aRegulation on a road section ata school or any other specifiedplace such as Speed Limit orNo Horning

A panel fixed to the SignRSS-05 to indicate thecategories of vehicles

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescriptionSchedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201543A

APR-10To be affixed toSpeed Limit SignRSS-06

APR-11To be affixed toSpeed Limit SignRSS-07

APR-12To be affixed toSpeed Limit SignRSS-08

APR-13To be affixed inbetween SpeedLimit Sign RSS-05and APR09

APR-14To be affixed toSigns PHS-1, PHS-2or PHS-3 at theEntry to anExpressway

A panel fixed to the SignRSS-06 to indicate thecategories of vehicles

A panel fixed to the SignRSS-07 to indicate thecategories of vehicles

A panel fixed to the SignRSS-08 to indicate thecategories of vehicles

A panel fixed in betweenSpeed Limit Sign RSS-05and APR09

A panel fixed to the SignPHS-1, PHS-2 or PHS-3 at theentry to an Expressway

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule II (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201544A

nfhOk;G

fz;b

Gj;jsk;

nghyd;dWit

jpUNfhzkiy

jk;Gs;is

nghyd;dWit

jpUNfhzkiyjk;Gs;is

IS(NH)-01 Map Type

AdvanceDirectionSign - 4 wayJunction

IS(NH)-02 Map Type

AdvanceDirectionSign - 3way Junction

IS(NH)-03 Alternative to

IS(NH)-01

IS(NH)-04 Overhead

mountedMap Type Sign

To indicate names ofimportant destinationsalong a road extendingfrom a 4-way intersectionahead, and their relativedirections, distances andthe route numbers.

To indicate names ofimportant destinationsalong a road extendingfrom a 3-way intersectionahead, and their relativedirections, distances andthe route numbers.

Alternative to SignIS(NH)-01 (Stack type)

Overhead mounted signto indicate the names ofimportant destinationsalong roads extendingfrom an intersection,route numbers and eitherthe distance to them or asymbol portraying thetype of destinations.

Schedule III

All dimensions are in millimetresDIRECTIONAL INFORMATIVE SIGNS

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

(a) National Highways

fhyp

k`ufk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201545A

`t;nyhf; efuk;

fpUyg;gid

ehty

`t;nyhf; efuk;

fpUyg;gid

ehty

fjph;fhkk;

,uj;kyhid;

Overhead mountedsign to indicate thedirections and namesof importantdestinations alongroads at anintersection ahead.

Overhead mountedsign to indicate thelanes to be followed toreach the indicateddestinations from anintersection ahead.

To indicate the name ofan important destinationextending from anintersection and thedistance to it.

To indicate the name ofan important destinationextending from anintersection and asymbol portraying thetype of destination.

IS(NH)-05 Overhead

mountedAdvanceDirectionSign

IS(NH)-06 Overhead

mountedLaneAssignmentSign

IS(NH)-07 Direction

Sign -Place andDistance

IS(NH)-08 Direction

Sign -Place andType

Schedule III (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201546A

`jghd;nfhl

n`huiz,q;fphpa

nfhOk;G

rpyhgk;IS(NH)-09 Confirming

Distances

IS(NH)-10 Beginning of

anAdministrativeArea

IS(NH)-11 End of an

AdministrativeArea

To indicate the names anddistances in kilometres toplaces where a road leads atthe exit from a large built-uparea or a Municipal area forconfirming the direction of aroad and the destinations itleads to.

To indicate the boundary at theentry to an administrative areaand the name of theadministrative area.

To indicate the boundary at theexit from an administrative areaand the name of theadministrative area.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule III (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

(b) Provincial Roads

To indicate names ofimportant destinationsalong a Provincial Roadextending from a 4-wayintersection ahead, andtheir relative directions,distances and the routenumbers.

IS(PR)-01Map TypeAdvanceDirectionSign - 4 wayJunction

ePh;nfhOk;G

ePh;nfhOk;G

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201547A

uapfk

kpy;ydpah

vy;gpl;ba

`e;jghd;nfhl

n`huiz

,q;fphpa

IS(PR)-02Map TypeAdvanceDirection Sign- 3 wayJunction

IS(PR)-03Alternative toIS(PR)-01

IS(PR)-04Direction Sign- Placeand Distance

IS(PR)-05ConfirmingDistances

To indicate names ofimportant destinations along aprovincial road extending froma 3-way intersection ahead,and their relative directions,distances and the routenumbers.

Alternative to Sign IS(PR)-01(Stack type)

To indicate the name of animportant destination along aprovincial road extending froman intersection and thedistance to it.

To indicate the names of anddistances in kilometres toplaces where a ProvincialRoad leads at the exit from alarge built-up area or aMunicipal area for confirmingthe direction of a road and thedestination it leads to.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule III (contd.)

vYypy;

gpq;tj;j

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201548A

msgùuntspNa

fodvkaf.dv

njhlq;nfhl

mdkÿrghze;Jiw

fld<UnfhOk;G

mdkÿrghze;Jiw

fld<UnfhOk;G

mdkÿrghze;Jiw

Schedule III (contd.)

(c) Expressways

To indicate the distance toan interchange ahead,names of importantdestinations along roadsextending from theinterchange, their relativedirections and routenumber.

To indicate names ofimportant destinationsalong roads, extendingfrom the exit ramp of aninterchange and their routenumbers.

To indicate the name of theplace where an interchangeis located, distance to itand the exit number.

To indicate the lanes to befollowed to reachimportant destinationsalong the roads extendingfrom an interchange ahead,number of that interchangeand distance to it.

To indicate the names ofimportant destinationsalong roads from aninterchange ahead.

IS(EX)-01AdvanceDirectionSign (Maptype)

IS(EX)-02AdvanceDirectionSign (Maptype),at the divergetaper

IS(EX)-03AdvanceDirectionSign - ExitRamp

IS(EX)-04OverheadMountedLaneAssignmentSign

IS(EX)-05OverheadMountedAdvanceDirectionSign

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

fodvkaf.dv

njhlq;nfhlmsgùuntspNa

EXIT

fhtp

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201549A

fld<UnfhOk;G

.d,a,

fhyp

(d) Other Signs Useful For Drivers

IS(EX)-06Direction Sign- ExitRamp

IS(EX)-07ConfirmatorySign

To indicate the location anddirection of an expressway exitramp.

Overhead mounted sign toindicate the names of majortowns that lie ahead and thedistance to them on the routeon which they travel.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule III (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

OSD-01Pedestrian Crossing

OSD-02One Way Trafficflow

OSD-03Hospital

Pedestrian Crossing Sign is used ata Pedestrian Crossing wherepedestrians have priority overvehicular traffic. Vehicular trafficis required to stop and give way tothe pedestrians, crossing the road.

To confirm that the drivers are ona one-way road. The flow ofvehicles on this road shall be in thedirection of the arrow.

To inform the road users that thereis a hospital in the vicinity of thesign. It is implied that thehospital is open 24 hours a dayfor use in an emergency.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201550A

OSD-04Parking

OSD-05Parking forHandicappedPersons

OSD-06Bus Stop

OSD-07Bus only Lane Beginsor Continues

OSD-08Bus Only Lane Ends

OSD-09Cycle only LaneBegins or Continues

To indicate a place for parking ofvehicles on the kerb side.

To indicate a parking space reservedfor handicapped persons. The signshall be used as a supplementaryplate to Sign OSD-04 Parking.

To indicate a place for the halting ofbuses.

To inform the road users of a laneexclusively reserved for the use ofbuses.

To inform the road users of the endof a lane exclusively reserved for theuse of buses.

To inform the road users of a laneexclusively reserved for the use ofcycles.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule III (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201551A

OSD-10Cycle only Lane Ends

OSD-11Cycle and PedestrianLane Begins orContinues

OSD-12Cycle and PedestrianLane Ends

OSD-13Streets for Pedestriansonly

OSD-14Pedestrian Underpass

OSD-15Pedestrian Overpass

To inform the road users of the endof a lane exclusively reserved for theuse of cycles.

To inform the road users of a laneexclusively reserved for cyclists andpedestrians.

To inform the road users of the endof a lane reserved exclusively for theuse of cyclists and pedestrians.

To inform the road users of a streetreserved exclusively for the use ofpedestrians.

To inform the road users of theentrance to a pedestrian underpass.

To inform the road users of theentrance to a pedestrian overpass.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescriptionSchedule III (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201552A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule III (contd.)

To indicate the entrance to anexpressway, where special rulesare to be observed .

To indicate the exit from anexpressway where special rulescease to apply. This sign shall beplaced at all exits or at specificdistances from the exits of anexpressway to notify road usersthat expressway conditions do notapply beyond that point.

To indicate to the road users thelocation of a public telephone.

To indicate the location of a placewhere information useful for theroad users, may be obtained.

To indicate the location of anindustrial area.

OSD-16Entrance to anExpressway

OSD-17End of Expressway

OSD-18Location of a PublicTelephone

OSD-19Information Centre

OSD-20Industrial Area

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201553A

OSD-21Restaurant

OSD-22Refreshment orCafeteria

OSD-23Hotel

OSD-24Filling Station

OSD-25Breakdown Service

To indicate the location of arestaurant.

To indicate the location of a cafe orsimilar place where onlyrefreshments or light meals areserved.

To indicate the location of a hotel.

To indicate the location of a fillingstation.

To indicate the location of a vehicleworkshop or a Garage

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescriptionSchedule III (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201554A

RNS-01Route Number Sign for“A” Class Highways

RNS-02Route Number Sign for“B” Class Highways

RNS-03Route Number Sign forProvincial Roads andPradeshiya Sabha Roads

RNS-04Route Number Sign forExpressways

Route Number Sign for “A” classroads.

Route Number Sign for “B” classroads

Route Number Sign for Non nationalhighways (Provincial and PradeshiyaSabha Roads.)

Route number sign for expressways.

(f) Additional Panels to be used with Directional Informative Signs

(e) Route Number Signs

Schedule III (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

API-01Distance to anInformation given inthe sign

API-02Length of anInformation sign

API-03Emergency CallingSection to be affixed toSign OSD-18

To indicate the distance from thesign to the location of theinformation.

To indicate the length of theinformation given in the informationsign.

To affix to the Sign OSD-18 PublicTelephone to indicate that thetelephone can be used for emergencycalls.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201555A

MS-01Barricade Board forroad works

MS-02Alternate BarricadeBoard for road works

MS-03Side Obstacle Markers

MS-04Direction Board forpermanent use

To indicate the limits of road workson the carriageway and shoulders(Black and Yellow).

To indicate the direction of the roaddeviation temporarily at road works(Black and Yellow).

To indicate points or road sectionwhere the carriageway narrows in away that is not clearly visible todrivers (Black and Yellow or Red andwhite).

To indicate the direction of roaddeviation at sharp bends and curves(Red and White).

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule IVAll dimensions are in millimetres

MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201556A

MS-05Chevron Markers

MS-06Road Side Delineators

MS-07Traffic Cone

MS-08Traffic Cone for NoParking

To indicate the road alignment atbends (Red and White).

To guide the drivers about the edgeof the road and the road alignment.But the delineator with red andwhite can be used to warn thedrivers about the hazardous roadedge.

A Traffic Control Device todemarcate temporarily the paththat the vehicles shall follow orpass a temporary obstruction.

A Traffic Control Device totemporarily prohibit parking.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule IV (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201557A

MS-09Traffic Guard post forNo Parking

MS-10“STOP” and “GO”Boards

MS-11Traffic guard post forroad furniture

Traffic guard post erected on thekerb or footpath to indicateprohibition of parking.

Used by Traffic Wardens atPedestrian Crossings orroadwork areas to indicate todrivers that the drivers must stopor proceed.

A Traffic Control Device tocontrol the traffic andprotect the road furniture (whiteand black or white and red).

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule IV (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201558A

MS-12Traffic Barricade forcontrolling traffic andprocessions

MS-13Lanterns

MS-14Flashers (Amber)

MS-15Electric Lamp(Red and Amber)

To control Traffic and PublicProcessions.

Light devices used at night toindicate hazardous situation atroad works, for safety of theroad users

Used at road works for lightingat night, for safety of the roadusers

Erected at road work sites atnight for safety of the roadusers.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule IV (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201559A

MS-16Warning signs toPrevent crashes

MS-17Disabled Vehicle Sign

MS-18Red Flag

MS-19Traffic Warden Jacket

Affixed or drawn to rear side andsides of long vehicles to indicatethe presence of long vehicles toprevent crashes.

To indicate a break down vehicle.Sign to be displayed at the rearof the vehicle.

Where any goods carried in anymotor vehicle used on anyhighway project, more than 1.5metres behind the back or front ofthe vehicle, there shall be affixedat the end of the load a red flagduring the day, and at night a whiteor selective yellow light at the frontend and a light at the rear end soas to be visible from a reasonabledistance to prevent crashes.

Worn by wardens approved bythe Assistant Superintendent ofPolice of the District to controltraffic.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule IV (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201560A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Worn by Police Officer tocontrol traffic

To indicate the position beyondwhich driver must not proceedwhen required to stop.

To indicate to the drivers, that novehicle shall proceed beyond theline in such a manner or at such atime as is likely to cause danger tosuch vehicle or the driver or anyoccupant of any other vehicle onthe major road or in the roundaboutas to necessitate the driver of suchvehicle on the adjacent major roador in the roundabout to change itsspeed or course.

To indicate to drivers the divisionbetween opposing traffic flows on acarriageway having a width of over6.10 metres. Overtaking, crossing,turning right and parking on eithersides permitted.

MS-20Traffic Police Jacket

RM-01Stop Line at anintersection

RM-02“Give Way” line at“Give Way” signs.

RM-03Broken Centre LineMarking

Schedule VAll dimensions are in millimetresROAD MARKINGS

Schedule IV (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201561A

RM-04Broken Centre LineMarkings incorporatingstuds or cat eyes

RM-05Broken Centre linemarking with Reflectivestuds for high SpeedHighways andExpressways

RM-06LongitudinalContinuous Centre line

Alternative Road Marking to RM-03 incorporating studs (or catseyes). Overtaking, Crossing,Turning Right and Parking on eitherside permitted

To indicate to drivers the divisionbetween opposing traffic flows on acarriageway having a width of over6.10 metres. Overtaking andcrossing permitted. Turning rightand parking on either sidesprohibited.

To indicate a prohibition todrivers that this line shall not becrossed unless it is for thepurpose of turning to the right toavoid an accident in anemergency.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201562A

RM-07Combination of aBroken Center Line anda Continuous Line

RM-08Combination of aContinuous Centre Lineand Broken Line

RM-09Combination of aBroken Centre Line anda Continuous Line withReflective Studs

To prohibit overtaking, thecontinuous line which shall beon the near side of the road.Turning right and crossing thecontinuous line to avoid anaccident in an emergency ispermitted.

To allow overtaking on thebroken line side. The broken lineshall be on the near side of theroad allowing overtaking,crossing and turning right.

Alternative Road Marking toRM-07 incorporating studs.Turning Right, crossing to avoidan accident is permitted.Overtaking is prohibited

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201563A

RM-10Combination of BrokenLine with a ContinuousCentre Line withReflective Studs

RM-11Longitudinal DoubleContinuous Centre Line

RM-12Longitudinal DoubleContinuous Centre Linewith Reflective StudsCrossing.

Alternative Road Marking toRM-08 incorporating studs.Overtaking, crossing andTurning Right is permitted

To prohibit crossing, overtakingor turning to the right, straddingor parking on either sides of theroad except avoid an accident inan emergency.

Alternative Road Marking toRM-11 incorporating studs.Turning Right, Straddling andparking on either side prohibitedexcept to avoid an accident.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201564A

Schedule V (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

RM-13Lane Marking

RM-14Longitudinal EdgeLine

RM-15Longitudinal LinewithReflective Studs

To indicate to drivers thedivision of the carriageway intotraffic lanes. Overtaking ispermitted between the lanes.

To indicate to drivers the edgeof the carriageway.

Alternative Road Marking toRM-14 incorporating studs toindicate edge of thecarriageway.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201565A

RM-16No Parking Line(yellow line)

RM-17No Parking DoubleLine (yellow lines)

RM-18No Parking DoubleLine with ReflectiveStuds (yellow line)

Longitudinal line along the edgeof the carriageway to indicate todrivers that parking of vehicleson a side of a length of road isprohibited or restricted(yellow line).

To indicate to drivers, thatparking, loading, unloading andstanding of vehicles on a side ofa length of a road is prohibited orrestricted (yellow line).

Alternative Road Marking toRM-17 incorporating studs(yellow line) to prohibit orrestrict Waiting, Loading andUnloading (yellow lines).

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201566A

RM-19Center Median EdgeLine

RM-20Hatch line for traffic inopposite direction

Road Marking along the edge ofa centre median or traffic island.

To indicate to drivers that part ofthe carriageway which the trafficshould not enter unless it isseen by the driver that it issafe to do so.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201567A

RM-21Hatch line for traffic insame direction(approaching)

RM-22Hatch line for traffic insame direction(leaving)

Same as RM-20 where trafficapproaches in the same directionon either side of hazard. Trafficshall not enter except in anemergency.

Same as RM-20 where trafficleaves in the same direction oneither side of hazard. Trafficshall not enter except in anemergency.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201568A

RM-23Compulsory leftturn

RM-24Compulsory rightturn

RM-25Compulsory straightahead

To indicate to drivers acompulsory left turn ahead.

To indicate to drivers acompulsory right turn ahead.

To indicate to drivers acompulsory movement,straight ahead.

Schedule V (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201569A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

To indicate to drivers appropri-ate traffic lanes ahead.RM-26Traffic Lanesahead

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201570A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

RM-27“ZEBRA”PedestrianCrossing ona Two-LaneRoad

To indicate wherethe pedestriansshould cross thecarriageway on atwo lane roadincluding allrelevant TrafficSigns and RoadMarkings.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201571A

Schedule V (contd.)

RM-28“ZEBRA”PedestrianCrossing ona Four-Laneroad

To indicate wherethe pedestriansshould cross thecarriageway on adual four lane roadincluding allrelevant TrafficSigns and RoadMarkings.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201572A

RM-29PedestrianOperatedsignalCrossing

To indicate wherethe pedestriansshould cross thecarriageway at apedestrianoperated LightSignals includingall relevant TrafficSigns and RoadMarkings.

Schedule V (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201573A

RM-30“ZEBRA”PedestrianCrossing ona Raisedblock paving(two-laneroad)

To indicate wherethe pedestriansshould cross thecarriageway on atwo lane road,including all TrafficSigns and RoadMarkings.

Schedule V (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201574A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

RM-31“ZEBRA”PedestrianCrossingon RaisedBlockPaving(four-laneroad)

To indicate wherethe pedestriansshould cross thecarriageway on afour lane road,including allTraffic Signs andRoad Markings.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201575A

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

To indicate wherethe pedestriansshould cross thecarriageway on adual four laneroad including allrelevant TrafficSigns and RoadMarkings. Inaddition RumbleStrips areprovided on bothapproaching sidesof the pedestriancrossings toreduce the speedsof approachingvehicles

RM-32“ZEBRA”PedestrianCrossingwith RumbleStrips

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201576A

RM-33Rumble Strips(speed50 kmph orless)

RM-34Rumble Strips(speed morethan50 kmph)

RM-35Details of aset ofRumble strips

RM-36Pedestriancrossing orIntersectionahead

Rumble Strips are placedon the approaches toPedestrian Crossings,sharp bends or any otherplace, where theCompetent Authorityconsiders it necessary inorder to reduce the speedsof approaching vehicles.

Rumble Strips are placedon the approaches toPedestrian Crossings,sharp bends or any otherplace, where theCompetent Authorityconsiders it necessary inorder to reduce the speedsof approaching vehicles.

Thickness of RumbleStrips shall not be lessthan 5 millimetres nomore than 7 millimetresabove the surface of thecarriageway nearest to it.Rumble Strips are madeout of reflective thermoplastic paint and areplaced at right angle tothe centre line of the road.

To warn drivers that thereis a Pedestrian Crossingor an intersection aheadand to approach slowlyor drive slowly, byreducing 10 kmph. Themarking is provided 50metres ahead of thePedestrian Crossing or theintersection. Distancevaries depending on thespeed limits gazetted forthe respective roads.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201577A

RM-37Give way

RM-38SLOW

RM-39STOP

RM-40BUS LANE

“Give way” Road Marking at a minorroad on major/minor road intersectionor at roundabouts, to be drawn justbefore the “Give way” line to indicateto drivers, that no vehicle shall proceedbeyond the line and enter the majorroad of the intersection or theroundabout in such a manner or such atime as is likely to cause danger tosuch vehicle or the driver or anyoccupant of any other vehicle on themajor road or in the roundabout as tonecessitate the driver of such vehicleon the adjacent road or in theroundabout to change its speed orcourse.

To indicate to drivers of a potentialdanger ahead and the need to proceedwith caution.

To indicate to drivers, the approach toa road junction at or intersectioncontrolled by ‘STOP’ Sign (SignPRS01) and Road Marking RM-01.

To indicate a lane reserved for the useof public transport vehicles.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201578A

RM-41CYCLE LANE

RM-42Cyclist Crossing

RM-43Hazard Warning Line

To indicate a lane reserved for theuse of cycles.

Transverse Road Marking toindicate where cyclists cross orenter the carriageway.

Broken longitudinal line to warndrivers of a hazardous situation.Crossing, overtaking with caution ispermitted.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201579A

Schedule V (contd.)

Longitudinal line towardsthe edge of the road todemarcate a bus or cyclelane.

Longitudinal line towardsthe edge of the road todemarcate a bus or cyclelane.

To indicate to drivers that avehicle must not enter themarked area in a mannerwhich causes any part ofthe vehicle to remainstationary within themarked area, due to thepresence of otherstationary vehicles,provided that vehiclesturning right may waitwithin the area whenprevented from proceedingonly by other stationaryvehicles in or near themarked area waiting tocomplete a right turn.

RM-44Bus lane

RM-45Cycle lane

RM-46Junction Box(Yellow Lines)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201580A

Schedule V (contd.)

RM-47Junction Box(Yellow Lines)

RM-48Parallel Parkingspaces

RM-49PerpendicularParking spaces

RM-50Angle Parkingspaces

To indicate to drivers that avehicle must not enter themarked area in a manner whichcauses any part of the vehicleto remain stationary within themarked area, due to thepresence of other stationaryvehicles, provided that vehiclesturning right may wait withinthe area when prevented fromproceeding only by otherstationary vehicles in or nearthe marked area waiting tocomplete a right turn.

To indicate the size of parkingspaces to be provided forparking of vehicles parallel tothe kerb or the edge of thecarriageway.

To indicate the size of parkingspaces to be provided forparking of vehicles right anglesto the kerb or the edge of thecarriageway.

To indicate the size of parkingspaces to be provided forangular parking of vehicles at30°, 45° and 60° to the kerbor the edge of the carriageway.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201581A

RM-51Speed Limit

RM-52End of speed limit

RM-53Asphalt strips

RM-54Centre MedianMarking

To indicate the maximum speedlimit traffic may travel on thecarriageway

To indicate the end of speedlimit on the carriageway

Asphalt Strips may be provided as adivider to separate the opposing trafficflows on a four-lane undivided road.The Asphalt Strips shall be 75millimetres in width, 30 millimetres inheight and 1200 millimetres length ordecided by the Competent Authorityto ensure the safety of the road users.The space in between the AsphaltStrips shall be 600 millimetres and theangle of the strips to the centre line ofthe road is 60°. Asphalt Strips aremade out of asphalt concrete. Singlecontinuous longitudinal white line oneither side of the Asphalt Strips shallbe marked on the carriageway. Vehiclesare prohibited from crossing theAsphalt Strips for overtaking and onlyvehicles turning.

Two longitudinal continuous linesdrawn 600 mm apart on a four-laneundivided road at the centre representsa centre median as a divider to separatethe opposing traffic. Vehicles arepermitted only to turn right acrossthese two lines. However, crossing thelines is not permitted for the purposeof overtaking.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule V (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201582A

APS-01Red Light

APS-02Red and Amber Lights

APS-03Green Light

APS-04Amber Light

A red light means STOP and vehiclesshall not proceed beyond the stopline or, if there is no stop line, shallnot proceed beyond the line of thesignal or, if the signal is placed in themiddle or on the opposite side of anintersection, shall not enter theintersection or move on to an areadesignated for a Pedestrian Crossingat the intersection.

Red and Amber means STOP. Anamber light, which appear at the sametime with the red light shall meanthat the signal is about to change.Do not proceed until Green lightappears .

A green light means that traffic mayproceed straight or may turn left orright; with safety. However, a greenlight for controlling traffic at anintersection shall not authorizedrivers to proceed if traffic is socongested in the direction in whichthey are about to proceed and if theyenter the intersection they wouldprobably not have cleared it by thenext change of phase.

An amber light, which appears aloneshall mean that no vehicle may passthe stop line or beyond the line ofthe signal unless it is so close to thestop line or signal when the lightappears that it cannot be safelystopped before passing the stop lineor beyond the line of the signal.

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Schedule VITRAFFIC LIGHT SIGNALS

(a) Alternative Positions Of Traffic Light Signals

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201583A

APS-05Flashing Amber lights

GAP-01Green Arrow

GAP-02Alternative Positions ofthe Green Arrow andArrows

GAP-03Position P2

A single amber flashing light shallmean that drivers reduce speed andmay proceed but shall do so withparticular care. Amber flashing lightmay be used in place of a three -colour system at time when traffic islight, particularly in the nights.Amber Flashing Light Signals areplaced at intersections. They areoperated only at times when trafficlights are not operated.

Green Arrow - Traffic shall followin the direction of the arrows.

Alternative positions of the GreenArrow Traffic shall follow in thedirection of the arrows

Alternative positions of the GreenArrow - P2. Traffic shall follow inthe direction of the arrows

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

(b) Green Arrow And Its Alternative Positions

Schedule VI (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201584A

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P1. Trafficshall follow in the directionof the arrows

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P3. Trafficshall follow in the directionof the arrows

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P1 and P2.Traffic shall follow in thedirection of the arrows

Schedule VI (contd.)

GAP-04Position P1

GAP-05Position P3

GAP-06Positions P1 andP2

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201585A

GAP-07Positions P1 and P3

GAP-08Positions P2 and P5

GAP-09Positions P3 and P6

GAP-10Position P4

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P1 and P3. Trafficshall follow in the direction ofthe arrows

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P2 and P5. Trafficshall follow in the direction ofthe arrows

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P3 and P6. Trafficshall follow in the direction ofthe arrows

Alternative position of the GreenArrow - P4. Traffic shall followin the direction of the arrows

Schedule VI (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201586A

GAP-11Position P4

GAP-12Positions P1 and P4

OMS-01Overhead LightSignals at a 4 wayJunction

OMS-02Overhead LightSignals at a 3 wayJunction

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P4. Traffic shallfollow in the direction of thearrows

Alternative positions of theGreen Arrow - P1 and P4.Traffic shall follow in thedirection of the arrows

Traffic shall follow the GreenLight Signal and the directionof the arrow.

Traffic shall follow the GreenLight Signal and the directionsof the arrows.

(c) Overhead Mounted Traffic Light Signals

Schedule VI (contd.)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201587A

LSP-01Light Signals forPedestrians

LSP-02Alternative to LSP-01

LSP-03Pedestrian operatedLight Signal

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Light Signals for pedestrians toproceed after the “Green Man”appears.

Light Signals for pedestrians toproceed after the “Green Man”appears.

To press the button and wait forthe change to Green to proceed /cross, the road

(d) Light signals for Pedestrians

Schedule VI (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201588A

PDV-01

PDV-02

Prohibited distances atintersections

PDV-03

PDV-04

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Prohibited or restricted distancefor parking at an intersection ona major road and minor road. 25metres for intersection on majorroad and 10 metres forintersection on minor road

Schedule VII

PROHIBITED DISTANCE FOR PARKING OF VEHICLES

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201589A

PDV-05Prohibited distance atBus Stops

PDV-06Prohibited distance atBus Bays

PDV-07Prohibited distance atPedestrian Crossings

PDV-08Prohibited distance atSignalized Intersections

PDV-09Prohibited distance atPedestrian OperatedTraffic Signals

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Parking is prohibited or restricted30 metres within the approach tothe Bus Stopping Place and 15metres on the departure side to aBus Stopping Place.

Parking is prohibited or restricted15 metres on the approach to thebay and 10 metres from thedeparture point of the bay.

Parking is prohibited or restricted30 metres within the approachand 15 metres on the departureside of the crossing.

Parking is prohibited or restricted50 metres to the approach side ofthe light signal.

Parking is prohibited or restricted30 metres to the approach side ofthe light signal and 15 metres onthe departure side of the lightsignal.

Schedule VII (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201590A

HSP-01Traffic approachingfrom the front to STOP

HSP-02All traffic to STOP

HSP-03Traffic approachingboth from front andbehind to STOP

HSP-04Traffic from the right toproceed

HSP-05Traffic from the front toproceed

HSP-06Traffic from the left toproceed

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

To direct the traffic approachingfrom the front to stop

To direct all traffic to stop

To direct the traffic approachingfrom both front and behind tostop

To direct the traffic approachingfrom the right to proceed

To direct the traffic approachingfrom the front to proceed

To direct the traffic approachingfrom the left to proceed

Schedule VIII

TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS

All dimensions are in millimetres

(a)Hand signals - by Police Officers

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201591A

SDR-01Turn right

SDR-02Slow down orstop

SDR-03Turn left

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

To inform other roadusers of the driver’sintention to move tothe right or turn right

To inform other roadusers of the driver’sintention to slow downor stop. The signal isparticularly importantat Zebra crossing to letother road users,including pedestrians,know that the driver isslowing down orstopping

To inform the otherroad users of thedriver’s intention tomove to the left or turnleft.

(b) Signals by Drivers / Riders

Schedule VIII (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201592A

DIS-01Turn right

DIS-02Turn left

DIS-03Slow down orstop (BrakeLight Signals)

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

To inform the otherroad users of thedriver’s intention tomove to right or turnright.

To indicate to otherroad users of thedriver’s intentionmove to the left orturn left or stop on theleft.

To inform the otherroad users of thedriver’s intention toslow down or to stop.

(c) Direction Indicator Signals

Schedule VIII (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201593A

HWP-01Explosive

HWP-02Flammable gas

HWP-03Flammable Liquid

HWP-04Flammable Solid

HWP-05Oxidizer

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Symbol (Exploding Bomb): BlackBackground : Light orange with anumber 1.1 and 1

Symbol (Flame): whiteBackground : Red with anumber 2

Symbol (Flame): whiteBackground : Red with anumber 3

Background : White with verticalred stripes with a number

Symbol (Flame over Circle): BlackBackground : Yellow

Schedule IX

HAZARD - WARNING PLATES FIXED TO TRANSPORT VEHICLES

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201594A

HWP-06Infectious substance

HWP-07Radioactive Substance

HWP-08Corrosive

HWP-09Miscellaneous

Sign No.Name of SignSignDescription

Symbol (Three CrescentsSuperimposed on a circle): BlackBackground : White with anumber 6

Symbol (a circle surrounded bythree sectors) : BlackBackground : upper half yellowlower white back ground with arectangle with a number 7

Symbol (Liquids, Spilling fromtwo glass vessels and attackinga hand and a metal bar): BlackBackground : Upper half white ;lower half black with a number 8

Symbol (nil); Background : whitewith upper half vertical blackstripes with a number 9

Schedule IX (contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201595A

Category of SignCode

Schedule 011. DANGER WARINING SIGNSDWS2. ADDITIONAL PANELS TO BE USED WITH DANGER WARINING SIGNSAPD

Schedule 022. REGULATORY SIGNS

(a) Prohibitory SignsPHS(b) Restrictive SignsRSS(c) Mandatory SignsMNS(d) Priority SignsPRS

2. ADDITIONAL PANELS TO BE USED WITH REGULATORY SIGNSAPR

Schedule 03DIRECTIONAL INFORMATIVE SIGNS

(a) National HighwaysIS(NH)(b) Provincial RoadsIS(PR)(c) ExpresswaysIS(EX)(d) Other Signs Useful For DriversOSD(e) Additional Panels To be Used with Directional Informative SignsAPI(f) Route Number SignsRNS

Schedule 04MISCELLANEOUS SIGNSMS

Schedule 05ROAD MARKINGSRM

Schedule 06TRAFFIC LIGHT SIGNALS

(a) Alternative Positions of Traffic Light SignalsAPS(b) Green Arrow And Its Alternative PositionsGAP(c) Overhead Mounted Traffic Light SignalsOMS(d) Light signals for PedestriansLSP

Schedule 07PROHIBITED DISTANCE FOR PARKING OF VEHICLESPDV

Schedule 08TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS

(a) Hand signals - by Police OfficersHSP(b) Signals by Drivers / RidersSDR(c) Direction Indicator SignalsDIS

Schedule 09HAZARD - WARNING PLATES FIXED TO TRANSPORT VEHICLESHWP

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201596A

TRAFFIC SIGNS & MARKINGS

SCHEDULETYPEFROMTO

IDWS151

APD14

IIPHS126

RSS19

MNS19

PRS16

APR114

IIIIS(NH)111

IS(PR)15

IS(EX)17

OSD125

RNS14

API13

IVMS120

VRM154

VIALS15

GAP112

OMS12

LSP13

VIIPDV19

VIIIHSP16

SDR13

DIS13

IXHWP17

TOTAL298

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201597A

Schedule-I

Table 1

Details of Danger Warning Signs

Key dimension of Sign (mm)Colour of Components of SignsSize of Letters (mm)Size of Numerals (mm)

Length of a side

No. of SignShape of SignSmallNormalLarge

(S)(N)(L)

Narrow streetsWithin andExpresswaysWidth ofSymbolBackgroundBorderMinimumMaximumMinimumMaximum

and low speed outside builtand similarBorder

built up areasup areashighways

DWS-01 to DWS-49Square with one400600900S = 10-------

excluding DWS-26diagonal vertical

N = 10 BlackYellowBlack----

L = 15-------

DWS-26Square with one400600900S = 10Top circle red.------

diagonal vertical

N = 10Mid circle amber.------

L = 15Bottom circle greenYellowBlack----

-The balance portion black------

DWS-50Symmetrical cross-Length=1200:-50-WhiteRed----

with pointed armsWidth=60:

Angle=60°

DWS-51Symmetrical cross with-Length=1200:-50-WhiteRed----

pointed arms and oneWidth=60:

v-shaped arm beneathAngle=60°

the cross

APD-01RectangleVaries15BlackYellowBlack60807090

APD-02RectangleVaries15BlackYellowBlack60807090

APD-03Square450x45015BlackYellowBlack----

APD-04RectangleHeight=220(Width=49015BlackYellowBlack6080--

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201598A

Schedule-II

Table 2

Details of Regulatory Sign

Key documents of Sign (mm)Colour of Componments of SignSize ofSize of

LettersNumerals

(mm) (mm)

Outer Diameter

SmallNormalLarge

(S)(N)(L)

No. of SignShape of SignNarrow streetWidthExpressWidth ofWidth ofWidth Symbols,BackBorderObliqueMinimumMaximumMinimumMaximum

and lowandwaysborderobliqueof bandletters,groundband

speedoutsideandband/barnumerals

built upbuiltsimilar

areaup areashighways

PHS-01 to PHS-07Circular400600900S=50S=40BlackWhiteRedRed----

excluding PHS-06

N=60N=50

L=75L=60

PHS-06 & PHS-08Circular400600900S = 10S = 8 of 5GreyWhiteBlackGrey lines----

N = 10N= 8 of 6

L = 15L = 8 of 10

PHS-09 to PHS-22 exducCircular400600900S=50S=40BlackWhiteRedRed----

(PHS-08 to PHS-10)

N=60N=50

L=75L=60

PHS-10Circular400600900S=50--WhiteRed-----

N=60

L=75

PHS-23 & 24Circular400600900S=50S=40-BlueRedRed----

N=60N=50

L=75L=60

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.201599A

PHS-25 & 26Circular400600900S=50S=40WhiteBlueRedRed----

N=60N=50

L=75L=60

RSS-01 to RSS-09Circular400600900S=50-BlackWhiteRedRed----

N=60

L=75

RSS-10Circular400600900S = 10S= 8 of 5GreyWhiteBlackGrey----

lines

N = 10N= 8 of 6

L = 15L= 8 of 10

MSN-01 to MSN-09Circular400600900S=50-BlackWhiteRed-----

N=60

L=75

PRS-01Regular Octagon6009001200S=30-WhiteRedWhite-----

with 2 sided

horizontalN=40

L=55

PRS-02Equilateral Triangle6009001200S=50--WhiteRed-----

with 1 sided

horizontal & oppo-N=75

site vertex belowL = 100

Schedule-II

Table 2

Details of Regulatory Sign

Key documents of Sign (mm)Colour of Componments of SignSize ofSize of

LettersNumerals

(mm) (mm)

Outer Diameter

SmallNormalLarge

(S)(N)(L)

No. of SignShape of SignNarrow streetWidthExpressWidth ofWidth ofWidth Symbols,BackBorderObliqueMinimumMaximumMinimumMaximum

and lowandwaysborderobliqueof bandletters,groundband

speedoutsideandband/barnumerals

built upbuiltsimilar

areaup areashighways

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015100A

PRS-03Square with 1400600900S=15-S=40Yellow withWhiteBlack---

diagonalblack

verticalN=25N=50border

L=35L=75

PRS-04Square with400600900S=15S=80S=40Yellow withWhiteBlackBlack----

one diagonalblack

vertialN=25N=120N=50border

L=35L=180L=75

PRS-05Circular400600900S=50--UpwardWhiteRed-----

arrow-Red

N=60Downward

arrow-Black

L=75

PRS-06RectangleHeight=400Height=600 Height=900---Upward arrowBlue------

Width=370Width=550 Width=825White Down

ward arrow-Red

APR-01RectangleVaries15BlackWhiteRed-60807090

APR-02RectangleVaries15BlackWhiteRed-60807090

APR-03RectangleHeight = 310 : Width = 60015BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-04RectangleHeight = 310 : Width = 78015BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-05RectangleHeight = 310 : Width = 60015BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-06Rectangle Height = 570 : Width = 105015BlackWhiteRed-60807090

APR-07RectangleVaries15BlackWhiteRed-6080--

APR-08RectangleHeight = 220 : Width = 49015BlackWhiteRed-6080--

APR-09RectangleHeight = 680 : Width = 82060BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-10RectangleHeight = 550 : Width = 60060BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-11RectangleHeight = 580 : Width = 60060BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-12RectangleHeight = 600 : Width = 60060BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-13RectangleHeight = ---- :Width = ----BlackWhiteRed-----

APR-14Rectangle Height = 650 : Width = 150020BlackWhiteRed

Schedule-II

Table 2

Details of Regulatory Sign

Key documents of Sign (mm)Colour of Componments of SignSize ofSize of

LettersNumerals

(mm) (mm)

Outer Diameter

SmallNormalLarge

(S)(N)(L)

No. of SignShape of SignNarrow streetWidthExpressWidth ofWidth ofWidth Symbols,BackBorderObliqueMinimumMaximumMinimumMaximum

and lowandwaysborderobliqueof bandletters,groundband

speedoutsideandband/barnumerals

built upbuiltsimilar

areaup areashighways

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015101A

Schedule - III

Table 3

Details of Advance Direction Signs

Key Dimensions of sign (mm)Colour of Components of signSize of lettersSize of Numerals

(mm) (mm)

No. of SignShape of SignDimensionWidth ofWidth of obliqueSymbols, lettersBackgroundBorderMinimumMaximumMinimumMaximum

borderband/barnumeralssizesizesizesize

IS(NH)-01 to IS(NH) 03RectangleVariable30WhiteGreenWhite7515075150

IS(NH)-04 to IS(NH)-06RectangleVariable30-WhiteGreenWhite175300--

IS(NH)-07 to IS(NH)-08Rectangle withVariable30WhiteGreenWhite7515075150

pointed arrow on

1 side

IS(NH)-9RectangleVariable30WhiteGreenWhite7515075150

IS(NH)-10RectangleVariable40WhiteGreenWhite75150--

IS(NH)-11RectangleVariable40100WhiteGreenWhite75150--

IS(PR)-01 to IS(PR)-05RectangleVariable30-BlackWhiteBlack7515075150

excluding

IS(PR)-04

IS(PR)-04Rectangle withVariable30-BlackWhiteBlack7515075150

pointed arrow on

1 side

IS(EX)-01 and IS(EX)-02RectangleVariable40-WhiteBlueWhite150200150200

IS(EX)-03 to IS(EX)-05RectangleVariable50-WhiteBlueWhite175300175300

IS(EX)-06RectangleHight-400 :40-WhiteBlueWhite-400--

Width : 2400

IS(EX)-07RectangleVariable40-WhiteBlueWhite150200150200

OSD-01Square with an insetSquare-600x600 :--Black symbol in aBlue-----

of upright equilateralTriangle-400white triangular

triangle with one side--insert

horizontal

OSD-02, OSD-04 and OSD-05Square450x450--WhiteBlue-----

OSD-03Square600x600--Cross-Red-Bed WhiteBlue-----

OSD-06Rectangle with aRectangleBlack symbol in aBlue-----

square inset600 x 300white square insert

Square

300 x 300-

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015102A

OSD-07RectangleHeight-825 : Width-750--WhiteBlue-----

OSD-08RectangleHeight-825 : Width-750-100 (red)WhiteBlue-----

OSD-09, OSD-11 and OSD-13RectangleHeight-600 : Width-400--WhiteBlue-----

OSD-10 and OSD-12RectangleHeight-600 : Width-400-100 (red)WhiteBlue-----

OSD-14 and OSD-15Square600x600--WhiteBlue-----

OSD-16RectangleHeight-900 or 120015 or 20-WhiteBlue-----

Width-600 or 900

OSD-17RectangleHeight-900 or 120015 or 20100 or 150-----

Width-600 or 900

OSD-18 to OSD-25Square600 x 600100-BlackWhite-----

RNS-01Rectangle Height = 250 or 35010-WhiteGreenWhite100200100200

Width = Variable

RNS-02RectangleHeight = 225 or 35010-WhiteGreenWhite7520075200

Width = Variable

RNS-03Rectangle Height = 200 or 30010-WhiteGreenWhite7515075150

Width = Variable

RNS-04Rectangle Height = 350 or 45015-WhiteBlueWhite200300200300

Width = Variable

API-01RectangleVariable15WhiteBlueWhite60807090

API-02RectangleVariable15WhiteBlueWhite60807090

API-03RectangleHeight=220 : Width=60015WhiteBlueWhite--6080

Schedule - III

Table 3

Details of Advance Direction Signs

Key Dimensions of sign (mm)Colour of Components of signSize of lettersSize of Numerals

(mm) (mm)

No. of SignShape of SignDimensionWidth ofWidth of obliqueSymbols, lettersBackgroundBorderMinimumMaximumMinimumMaximum

borderband/barnumeralssizesizesizesize

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.11.2015103A

Schedule - IV

Table 4

Details of Miscellaneous Signs

Key Dimensions of signColour of Components of signSize of lettersSize of Numerals

(mm)(mm)(mm)

No. of SignShape of SignDimensionWidth ofWidth ofSymbols, lettersBack-BorderMinimum Maximum Maximum Maximum

borderobliquenumeralsground

band/bar

MS-01, MS-02 andRectangleL-500 or 1"000 B-300--Alternate black and------

MS-04or 400 S-150 or 200Yellow bands

MS-03RectangleWidth-410,Yellow bands--Alternate black and

-340Balck strips -360Yellow bands

MS-05RectangleHeight-620 Width-600--Alternate red and

white bands

11-796

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.