==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

wxl 2084$2 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 13 jeks i÷od – 2018'08'13No. 2084/2 – MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 2018

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Draft of Irrigation Statute of Central Provincial Council No. 05 of 2017

I, M. Rameshwaran, Minister of Agriculture, Minor Irrigations, Animal Production and Development, Agrarian Development,Inland Fisheries, Hindu Cultural Affairs, Tamil Education and Estate Infrastructure facilities of the Central Provincial Council,hereby notify that above named Draft Statute published below will be presented to the Provincial Council of Central Provinceafter two weeks. If anyone has suggestions or amendments regarding the provisions of this statute, he/she may submit themto me during that period.

M. RAMESHWARAN,Minister of Agriculture, Minor Irrigations, Animal Productionand Development, Agrarian Development, Inland Fisheries,Hindu Cultural Affairs, Tamil Education andEstate Infrastructure facilities of the Central Provincial Council.

Ministry of Agriculture,Central Province,Gatambe,03rd August, 2018.

IRRIGATION STATUTE OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL No. 05 OF 2017

A statute to improve agricultural and related products in order for the betterment of farmer community of the CentralProvince by allocating provisions for planning, designing, implementing, supervision and maintenance of all irrigation worksin the Central Province other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through more than one province or interprovincialIrrigation and land development schemes, for restoration and maintenance of minor irrigation works, for establishment of theDepartment of Irrigation of Central Province, for establishment of Irrigation Management and Development Committees andRegional Irrigation Management Authorities and for the operation and discharge of their powers and functions and for mattersconnected therewith or consequential thereto.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – G28263 – 17 (08/2018)

2AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018

BE it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaas follows:–

1. This Statute may be cited as the Central Provincial Irrigation Statute No. 5 of 2017 of the CentralProvincial Council and shall come into force from the date of receipt of assent of the Governor of theCentral Province.

PART I

Establishment of the Central Provincial Department of Irrigation

2. There shall be established the Central Provincial Department of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to asthe “Department”) for the purpose of giving effect to provisions of this Statute.

3.(i) There shall be appointed a Central Provincial Director of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to asthe “Provincial Director”) for the operation and discharge of funcitons and powers of thisDepartment. That person shall be the Head of the Department, and shall be appointed by theGovernor of Central Province in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution ofDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987.

(ii) A Class I Officer of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall be appointed as the ProvincialDirector.

(iii) Provincial Director shall implement the provisions of the Statute under the supervision ofSecretary in charge of the subject of provincial irrigation.

4. There shall be appointed irrigation engineers, and the staff in accordance with the Provincial CouncilsAct No. 42 of 1987 as may be required for the purpose of assisting the Provincial Director to exercisepowers and functions of this Statute.

5. Functions and powers of the Provincial Director may be conferred to the officers who are appointedunder Section 4 above.

6. The Minister may establish District offices for the Districts of Kandy, Matale and NuwaraEliya andmay establish Regional Offices with the recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministry as may berequired.

PART II

Functions and Powers of the Department

7. Functions and Powers of the Department shall be as follows:

(i) To plan, design, implement, monitor and maintain irrigation works of the Province.(ii) To restore and maintain minor irrigations.(iii) To develop, maintain, repair and restore roads within or providing access to irrigation schemescoming under (i) and (ii) above.(iv) To make provisions to discharge the duties and functions ordered to be implemented by thisStatute.(v) To prepare and publish in the Gazette, a list of all irrigation schemes coming under the scopeof the Department, situated in Divisional Secretariat Divisions of Central Province, by GramaNiladhari Division.(vi) To revise the above list as appropriate from time to time.

Short Title andDate ofEnforcement.

Establishment ofProvincialDepartment ofIrrigation.

ProvincialDirector ofIrrigation.

Appointmentof otherofficers of the

Delegationof powers

Establishmentof District orRegionalOffices

Functionsand powersof the

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.20183A

(vii) To establish, register and supervise Irrigation Management and Development Committeesand Regional Irrigation Management Authorities.(viii) To ensure construction or maintenance of irrigation works listed in (v) above are not carriedout by other institutions without the approval of Provincial Director and to file the designplans and information of approved projects.(ix) To identify, demarcate, conserve and protect irrigation reservations and develop catchmentareas of irrigations.(x) To take legal action against persons who damage or encroach irrigation systems and itsstructures or intentionally or maliciously cause to waste water stored in an irrigaiton scheme.(xi) To take legal action against persons who engage in a commercial activity at an irrigationscheme or who use irrigation schemes for illegal activities.(xii) To plan and design to control damages to irrigation systems and agricultural lands due tonatural disasters such as floods and earth slips.(xiii) to efficently manage water supplied by irrigation schemes and water use for agriculturalpractices.(xiv) To build capacities through increasing public awareness on construction, maintenance, andprotection of irrigation schemes and water management.(xv) To maintain proper coordination with the relevant institution and officials in order to solve theissues that arise while implementing programs related to irrigation schemes.(xvi) To plan, design, construct, maintain, repair and restore any engineering work intended to drainwater from, or to regulate or prevent water inflow or water outflow to any cultivated land or toprotect it from floods.(xvii) To get the participation of other government or non- government or volunteer organization inmaintenance and construction of irrigation schemes.(xiii) The Provincial Director and/ or a person who has been authorized by the Provincial Directormay enter at any time and inspect a premise in order to implement the duties of this Statute.(xix) To provide engineering guidance for subjects coming under the supervision of Secretary tothe Ministry.(xx) Other Management and administrative authorities required to implement the duties of thedepartment.

PART III

Establishment of Irrigation Management and Development Committees

8. Powers and Duties of Irrigation Committees

1. There may be established and Irrigation Management and Development Committee (hereinafterreferred to as ‘’Irrigation Committee”) for every tank, anicut, cascading system or irrigationsystem or irrigation scheme under the guidance of Provincial Director.

2. Each Irrigation Committee shall be registered at the office of the Provincial Director.

3. Each Irrigation Committee shall have perpetual succession and a common seal.

4. An Irrigation committee shall be a body incorporated with powers to perform all of its dutiesand may sue or be sued by its name.

5. An Irrigation Committee shall be able to summon meetings with the participation of occupiersand land owners engaged in cultivation and implement the decision taken regarding cultivationfor each cultivation season and to take actions to make relevant provisions.

6. The Minister shall impose relevant regulations.

Establishment ofIrrigationManagementandDevelopmentCommittees

Registration

Authority andresponsibilities

4AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018

9. Membership of Irrigation Committees

1. Any person whose livelihood is agriculture can obtain membership of an Irrigation Committeeestablished under the clause 8 above if such person is;

(i) a citizen of Sri Lanka ;(ii) not less than eighteen years of age;(iii) a permanent resident of the area of authority of the Irrigation Committee of which he isseeks the membership, or has been using irrigation water for agricultural activities for aperiod of over two years;(iv) a benefiting owner cultivation or owner cultivator who obtains water for cultivation or anoccupier.

2. Associate Membership of Irrigation Committees

(i) Officers, organizations and institutions engaged in the field of agriculture; and(ii) A representative from a relevant agency determined by the Provincial Director; mayobtain the associate membership of above Committee.

10.(i) A General Meeting shall be summoned for appointing officers of the above Committee and theProvincial Director or an officer authorized by him shall preside the meeting. The three mainoffice bearers viz Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the Irrigation Committee and Vice-Chairman, Deputy Secretary and not less than two executive committee members shall beelected from the members.

(ii) Each Irrigation Committee shall have a constitution stating the composition of the committee,its fund and provisions for maintenance of the committee. The Secretary to the Ministry may,from time to time, order the general provisions to be included to the Constitution on therecommendation of the Provincial Director. The regulations required for this shall be formu-lated and declared by the Minister.

(iii) The terms of the office of the Irrigation Committee is two years. However a General Meetingshall be held within 14 days prior to the end of two years and board of officers shall be elected.A member cannot be appointed to the same main position for two consecutive terms. The termof the office of existing office bearers come to an end with the appointment of new officebearers.

(iv) Provincial Director may dismiss any person who is found guilty based on the findings of aninquiry for any financial misconduct or financial fraud. A person removed such cannot beappointed for a position for a period of five years.

(v) An appeal can be forwarded to Secretary to Ministry related to 10 (iv) above within 14 days.The decision of Secretary to the Ministry shall be final and decisive.

11.(i) Every Irrigation Committee may maintain a Fund. The account of Fund shall be maintained in astate bank approved by the General Bank of Sri Lanka.

(ii) These accounts of the Committee shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted to auditaccounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the Constitution.

(iii) Irrigation Committees have the power to enter into agreements subject to the restrictionsalready imposed or to be imposed in future.

(iv) An Irrigation Committee will be under the supervision of Secretary to the Ministry or ProvincialDirector and Secretary to the Ministry or Officers authorized by the Provincial Director.

Membership andAssociateMembership ofthe Committee

Officers andConstitution

Term of office

Committee Fund

Auditing ofaccounts

Enter intoAgreements

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.20185A

12. Each Irrigation Committee shall, within the area of its authority;

(i) inspect whether work items of development projects implemented are properly executed andreport to relevant officers of the Department.(ii) obtain contribution of farmers for the success of development projects.

(iii) take actions to maintain irrigation schemes effectively during and beyond the maintenanceperiod of development project.

(iv) encourage and expand cultivation of paddy or other crops in agriculture lands or paddy lands.

(v) Perform traditional customs and conventions relevant to cultivation.

(vi) ensure agricultural activities are carried out on par with the decisions taken at occupiers andowner cultivators meetings.

(vii) efficiently manage water from irrigation schemes and water used for agricultural use.

(viii) take steps to conserve soil by protecting crops from insects and diseases.

(ix) take steps to order to cut and remove branches of trees and thicket of lands adjacent to anypaddy field and canal and to cut and remove any thicket that interferes to the growth of cropscultivated in a paddy field or land.

(x) summon meetings of owner cultivators and occupiers for the purpose of formulating regulationsrelevant to development of collective agricultural activities in lands or agricultural lands withinan irrigation scheme.

(xi) inform the relevant officers about obstructions and damages made or being made to irrigationschemes and of floods and other disasters.

13. Appointment of Irrigation Representative.

1. An Irrigation Representative shall be elected on the consent of majority of members at the timeof appointing the Irrigation Committee. The Irrigation Representative may even be the chairman,secretary or a member of the executive committee.

2. Unless removed from office as a result of

(i) a letter of resignation forwarded to provincial Director, or;

(ii) on the grounds of findings of an inquiry conducted by the Director or by any other officerduly authorized by him on chargers of inefficiency or misconduct ;

(iii) The Irrigation Representative will hold the officer for a period of two years or a periodspecified by the constitution from the date of appointment.

3. Role of the Irrigation Representative

(i) to prepare a register of paddy lands in the tract with the assistance of other officers of thecommittee.

(ii) to allocated extents of the main bund, main distribution canal, the tank bund and spillwayto each owner or occupier for cleaning and maintenance to be in proportionate with theextent of paddy lands belonging to him in the register of paddy lands. In the case of a landcultivated by an occupier, the name of owner of the land shall be indicated in this register.

Role of theCommittee

Appointment ofIrrigationRepresentative

Resignation fromIrrigationCommittee

Role ofIrrigationRepresentative

Preparation ofRegistar ofPaddy Lands

6AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018

Demarcation ofPortion

Emolument

Establishment ofRegionalIrrigationManagementAuthorities.

Term of office

(iii) The portion allocated to each owner or occupier shall be demarcated by him using alasting method made of timber with heartwood, cement or stones, such that a part of eachitem buried in the ground to mark the borders is visible above the ground.

(iv) to cause the removal of thorny bushes, jungle and antills in the portion so allocateda anddemarcated and filling with earth the eroded parts of the bund prior to the commencementof each cultivation season. In addition it should be legal to inform the owners and occu-piers and to cause maintenance of their portions during a cultivation season if theIrrigation Committee decides that particular irrigation scheme needs maintenance.

(v) The Irrigation Committee shall cause to be cleaned any portion allotted to any owner oroccupier who does not properly clean the portion allotted to him in terms of sub section13.3. iii, and shall notify such person to pay the cost incurred.

(i) if the relevant owner or occupier fails to pay the said amount within 21 days from thedate of receipt of the notice, he shall be an offender under the provisions of thisStatute.

(ii) When an offence has been committed under the clause i above, Irrigation Committeeshall recover the monies as a fine by a request to the Magistrate and this amountshall be credited to the Committee Fund.

(vi) to protect irrigations, to report on those who damage irrigation works to the ProvincialDirector, to assist to bring any such person before the court, to preserve water issuedfrom reservoirs and irrigation works, to operate water management activities in accor-dance with time tables of agricultural plans,

14. Every owner cultivator, occupier or tenant cultivator shall pay an emolument to the IrrigationRepresentative for the above services with part of their harvest or an amount of money determinedby the General Assembly. Failure to pay the emolument is an offence under this Statute.

PART IV

Establishment of Regional Irrigation Management Authorities

15. Establishment of Regional Irrigation Management Authorities.

1.(i) Each Divisional Secretariat division of the Central Province may have a Regional IrrigationManagement Authority ( hereinafter referred to as ‘’ Regional Authority”) with theIntegration of all Irrigation Committees of that Divisional Secretariat division. The RegionalAuthority shall comprise the members selected from registered Irrigation Committeeswithin its Divisional Secretariat Division.

(ii) A General Meeting, presided by the Provincial Director or an officer authorised by him,shall be summoned to appoint officers of the Regional Authority. The three main officebearers - chairman, secretary and the treasurer - and not less than four executive committeemembers shall be elected from the members of the committee.

(iii) Every Regional Authority must have a Constitution stating the composition, Fund andthe provisions required to conduct the Regional Authority, The Secretary to the Ministrymay, from time to time, order the general provisions to be included in the Constitution.The Minister shall formulate and declare regulations required for this.

(iv) The term of office of the Regional Authority is two years from the date of appointment.However a General Meeting shall be held within 14 days prior to the end of two years and

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.20187A

board of officers shall be elected. A member cannot be appointed to the same mainposition for two consecutive terms. The term of the office of existing office bearers cometo an end with the appointment of new office bearers.

(v) Provincial Director may dismiss any person who is found guilty based on the findings ofan inquiry for anay financial misconduct or financial fraud. A person removed such can-not be appointed for a position for a period of five years.

(vi) An appeal can be forwarded to Secretary to Ministry related to 15. v above within 14 days.The decision of Secretary to the Ministry shall be final and decisive.

2. Every Regional Authority appointed under 15.1 shall register at the office of the ProvincialDirector.

3. Every Regional Authority shall have a perpetual succession and a common seal.

4. An Irrigation Committee shall be a body incorporated with powers to perform all of its dutiesand may sue or be sued by its name.

16. Every RegionalAuthority, within its area of authority;

(i) three main office bearers shall represent the regional agriculture committee.

(ii) shall work towards improving the inter- relationships among Irrigation Committees.

(iii) shall conserve irrigation works.

(iv) shall determine priorities in restoration and development activities.

(v) shall protect the relevant irrigation reservations and develop and conserve catchment areas.

(vi) shall assist in developing high lands in the close proximity to every irrigation work.

(vii) to assist in demarcating and preserving components of irrigation works as required by rulesand regulations.

17.(i) Every Regional Authority may maintain a fund under the provisions of the Constitution. Anaccount shall be maintained in respect of the Fund in a State Bank approved by the CentralBank of Sri Lanka.

(ii) The accounts of the Authority shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted to auditaccounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the Constitution.

(iii) Every Regional Authority has the power to enter into agreements subject to the restrictionsalready imposed or to be imposed in future.

(iv) A Regional Authority will be under the supervision of Secretary to the Ministry or ProvincialDirector and Secretary to the Ministry or Officers authorised by the Provincial Director.

18. The Minister may formulate regulations in terms of other matters and procedures related to IrrigationCommittees and Regional Authorities established under sections 8 and 15.

Authority andResponsibilities

Fund

Auditing

Enter intoAgreement

FormulatingRegulations

8AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018

PART V

Offences and Punishments

19.1. Any person who;

(i) blocks;(ii) obstructs;(iii) encroaches the land;(iv) causes to be blocked or encroached upon;(v) damage or causes to be damaged;(vi) wastes conserved water wilfully or maliciously;(vii) cultivates or puts up unauthorised erections within an irrigation or irrigation reservation;(viii) moves or causes to be moved earth or sand from connected areas;(ix) dumps in the connected areas earth, sand, gravel, metal or similar matter from outside fora purpose of paddy cultivation;(x) dumps or allows dumping of garbage or allows the folw any waste or dirty matter;(xi) damages or causes damages using animals, vehicles or, machinary; any irrigation scheme,watercourse, bank, tank, bund, access to any tank, anicut or irrigation scheme, reservationof an irrigation scheme, sluice, thawulla, stream, brook, water reservation, irrigationreservation, agricultural road, streamlet, river, anicut, an erection in an irrigation or acascading system;(xii) aids or supports to commit the above;without the prior permission of the director, shall be an offender for an offence stipulatedunder this statute.

2. Digging, constructing and maintaining a well for agricultural purposes in any identified irrigationsystem shall be an offence under this Statute unless it is done subject to the conditions laiddown by the Provincial Director.

3. It shall be an offence under this Statute to act against any decisions made at Irrigation Committeemeetings on agricultural activities.

20. Where the Provincial Director observes that any person enagages in an activity by contravening toprovisions of Section 19, a substantial order shall be issued prompty by the Provincial Directoraccording to the Schedule 1 directing to

(i) rectify the relevant offence,(ii) restrain from continuing,(iii) bring back the relevant work to normal within a period of minimum 7 days and maximum 14 days.

21.(i) When any person commits a breach of the order of the Section 20, the Provincial Director shallhave the power to complain by a written notice to the Magistrate Court having jurisdiction.

(ii) Where a written notice under Sub- Section 21 i has been received by the Magistrate, and theaforesaid person is convicted after a summary trial before the Magistrate, to direct him to pay afine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment. The expenses to rectify the consequences of his actionsshall be charged from the convict (s). The report of the Director of such expense shall be adecisive evidence for that lawsuit.

(iii) The Magistrate Court shall have the power to oder the convict to follow the order issued by theDirector in terms of Section 20.

Damagingan irrigationsystem is anoffence

Issuance oforders by theprovincialDirector

Judical actionswhen orders arebreached.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.20189A

22. Any person who commits a breach of any provision of this Statute or provisions of any regulationmade under it shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and where such offence shall not beimposed a special punishment under this Statute when such person is convited after a summary trialbefore the Magistrate, to direct him to pay a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonmentfor a term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

PART VI

General Provisions

23. The Minister shall have the power to formulate regulations required to discharge the functions andpowers of the Department in terms of implementing the provisions of this Statute.

24.(i) Every regulation formulated by the Minister shall come in to operation on date of publication inthe Gazette or on such later date, as may be speified in the regulation.

(ii) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council for approval,immediately after or within a month after its publication in the Gazette. Any regulation failing toobtain approval thus shall be considered as repealed as from the date of its disapproval, butwithout prejudice to any such executed there under, and that shall be published in the Gazette.Every regulation approved by the Provincial Council shall be published in the Gazette.

(iii) After the approval of regulation made under this Charter by the Provincial Council, suchregulations shall have the same force and effect as if they were contained in this Statute.

(iv) If any department, public coporation, person or board of persons intends to restore, develop, orpreserve any type of irrigation scheme belonging to a irrigation scheme published in Gazette asper 7.v above, the written permission of Provincial Director shall be obtained.

PART VII

Transitional Provisions

25. The person who has been appointed as the Provincial Director of the Provincial Department ofIrrigation and Officers who have been appointed to other posts before the prescribed date shall beconsidered as the employees of the Provincial Department of Irrigation subjected to rules andconditions which are not less advantageous than the rules and conditions of this Statute.

26.(i) All assts, responsibilities, all debt liabilities, legal actions which have existed with the ProvincialDepartment of Irrigation that has come in to operation since before the prescribed date and allcontract agreements entered with the said Department shall be considered as the assets,responsibilities, debt liabilities, legal actions, and contract agreements which have existed underthe Department that has been established under this Statute.

(ii) All assets, responsibilities, all debt liabilities, legal action which have existed with three DistrictOfficers in Kandy, Matale, and Nuwaraeliya those have come into operation before the prescribeddate and all contract agreements entered with District Irrigation Engineers shall be consideredas the assets, responsibilities, debt liabilities, legal actions, and contract agreements whichhave existed under the Department that has been established under this Statute.

Generalpunishment.

Imposingregulationsrelated toStatute.

ProvincialDirector andstaff who haveheld posts frombefore.

Continuance ofassets,responsibililitiesand liabilities

10AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018

PART VIII

Interpritation

27. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires;

‘’irrigation work’’ means irrigation scheme providing water to an agricultural land within the province,other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through more than one province orinterprovincial irrigation and land development schemes;

‘’minor irrigation work’’ means an irrigation scheme that supplies water to agricultural land up to theextent of two hundred (200) acres;

‘’Province’’ means the Central Province;

‘’Provincial Council’’ means the Central Provincial Council;

‘’Governor’’ means the person who holds the post of Governor of Central Province at present interms of the Constitution;

‘’Minister’’ means the Minister who is in-charge of the subject of irrigation of the Central ProvincialCouncil;

‘’Secretary to Ministry’’ means Secretary to the Ministry to which activities of irrigation schemes ofthe Central Provincial Council are delegated to;

‘’Provincial Director’’ means the Central Provincial Director of Irrigation;

‘’Engineer’’ means an engineer appointed to discharge the tasks and duties of the Provincial IrrigationDepartment.

‘’construction’’ with reference to any irrigation scheme, includes any improvement or extension ofany irrigation scheme, or the repair or restoration of any abandoned irrigation scheme, or(subject to the definition of ‘’maintenance’’ hereinafter contained) any action taken for theprotection of any irrigation scheme, or the irrigabe area there under, or of any part of suchsystem or area;

‘’maintenance’’ with reference to any irrigation scheme, includes any operation for the protection ofany existing irrigation scheme, or the irrigable area there under;

‘’irrigation scheme’’ includes the followings those come under the subject of Provincial Irrigation:-

(i) any tank, cascading system, bund, anicut, stream, channels, field channel, or watercoursecomprised in or incidental or ancillary to an irrigation scheme or;

(ii) any structure, road, bridge, sluice, gate, or other engineering work comprised in or incidentalor ancillary to construction or maintenance of irrigation scheme or;

(iii) any structure, bund, sluice, or other engineering work erected for the purpose of protectingany farming area in any cultivated area from floods or any other disasters.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.201811A

‘’water course’’ includes any river, tributary, or oya, or ela, or natural ela, or ela built to run off watertime to time, or water run off tributary or waterway or branch of such tributary, and area extendingtowards the land from the two banks of the said water course to a length equal to the lengthbetween the centre and the bank of such water course.

‘’Paddy land’’ means land which is cultivated with paddy or is prepared for the cultivation of paddyor which, having at any time previously been cultivated with paddy, is suitable for the cultivationof paddy, and includes such other land adjoining or appertaining to it as may be used by thecultivator for a threshing floor or for constructing his dwelling house, but does not include anyland which is used for any purpose other than cultivation or which has been determined by theCommissioner of Agrarian Services as a non-paddy land.

‘’occupier’’ shall mean the person for the time being entitled to use and occupation of agriculturalland by virtue of his being the lessee or usufructuary mortgagee and shall include persons inuse and occupation of agricultural lands alienated under the Land Development Ordinance,State Land Ordinance or any other enactment, and includes a tenant cultivator.

‘’cascading system or an irrigation system’’ means a region where there are feeding areas, reservations,canals, streams, paddy fields with all irrigations and also a tank which, before connecting witha river or oya at the end, collects water originated from a specific area with slopes and flowingin one direction and overflowing with excessive rains;

‘’emolument’’ means share of harvest given by other farmers on their mutual consent to the irrigationrepresentative for his effort and responsibility put into proper maintanance of the respectiveirrigations including the paddy fields and proper conductance of cultivation season in additionto the responsibility undertaken by the him in planning and implementation of cultivation of hispaddy field as an owner cultivator or tenant cultivator.

‘’Portion’’ means the portion of main bund and main distribution canal allotted to a farmer inproportionate to the number of farmers who cultivate with the water from an irrigation schemeand extent of his land indicated in the register of paddy lands.

‘’Irrigation reservation’’ means the strip of land left undisturbed to be used for the protection,preservation, maintenance or development of a tank, anicut, water course, or drainage canal.

viz.for a tank or an anicut-10 meters from maximum water level,for an irrigation canal-05 meters from maximum water level of the bank where the width ofthe bottom of the canal is less than 03 meters, or10 meters from maximum water level of the bank in case width of thebottom of the canal is more than or equal to 03 meters.

Words importing one gender shall include all genders.

28. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts of this Statute the Sinhalatext shall prevail.

In aninconsistencySinhala text shallprevail

12AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018

SCHEDULE 01

Form A

I …………………………………… Director of Irrigation, according to the powers vested in me by the Sections...... of the CentralProvincial Irrigation Statute No. 05 if 2017, having the opinion that you, .……………………………, have committed and / orcause more close to be committed the offence described hereunder;

hereby order you to act immediately according to

and/ or to prevent from acting / further continuing according to

and / or to restore the offencive action committed by you within the period …………………………………

In case of your failure to act according to the above order, legal action being taken against you according to the powersdelegated to me in terms of the Section 20 of the Irrigation Statute.

Provincial Director of Irrigation,Date: ………………………………Central Province.

08 – 949

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.