==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

අංංක 2468/46 - 2025 දෙෙසැැම්බර් 28 වැැනි ඉරිදාා - 2025.12.28No. 2468/46 - SUNDAY, DECEMBER 28, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

1A - PG 7435 - 358 (12/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

ORDER BY THE HON. PRESIDENT

Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979

BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 2 of the Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do by this Order, considering it necessary that the services provided by any Public Corporation or Government Department or Local Authority or Co-operative Society or any branch thereof being a Department or Corporation or Local Authority or Co-operative Society, which is engaged in provision of the services specified in the Schedule hereto, is essential to the life of the community and is likely to be impeded or interrupted due to the severe adverse weather condition currently prevailing, declare the services specified in the Schedule hereto to be an essential public service for the purposes of the aforesaid Section.

Given on the 28th day of December, Two Thousand and Twenty Five.

By Order of the Hon. President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

SealAnura Kumara Dissanayake.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'28Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20252A

SCHEDULE

1. All services connected to the supply of Electricity.

2. The supply or distribution of fuel, including Petroleum products and Gas.

3. All service, work or labour, of any description whatsoever, necessary or required to be done in connection with the maintenance, and the reception, care feeding and treatment, of patients in Hospitals, Nursing Homes, Dispensaries, and other similar Institution.

4. Public Transport services for the transportation of passengers or goods.

5. The Facilitation and maintenance of transportation services and Tourism services by Road, Rail, or Air, including Highways, Bridges, Culverts, Airports, Ports, and Railways.

6. All services connected to the supply of Water and drainage.

7. All services connected with the supply, safeguard, and distribution of Food and essential commodities.

8. All type of services, works, or labour contributions which should be carried out or required to be carried out by District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Grama Niladharis, Samurdhi Development Officers, Agricultural Research Assistants, Community Empowerment Officers, Officers of the Clean Sri Lanka Centralized Team, including all field level officers of all District and Divisional Secretariats.

9. Ambulance services.

10. All state Banking and Insurance services including the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.

11. Any services carried out by any Local Authorities for the supply of Water, Electricity, drainage and sewerage systems, Fire-fighting and Ambulance Services, scavenging and the removal of garbage (including the carriage and disposal of feces), and all services carried out by Local Authorities.

12. All services connected to the Irrigation.

13. All services connected to the Telephone, Telecommunication, and Media.

14. All services connected to the reclamation and development of Low-lying lands.

15. All services connected to the Agriculture and Agricultural Insurance services.

EOG 12 - 0252

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.