==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1947$6 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 28 jeks i÷od - 2015'12'28No.1947/6 - MONDAY DECEMBER 28, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

By-Laws

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Notice Published Under Section 3 Of Local Government Authorities (Standard By Laws) Act No. 06 Of 1952Read With Section 2 Of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 Of 1989

IT is hereby announced that the Pradeshiya Sabha Draft Bylaws ; having drafted by the Chief Minister and Minister incharge of the subject of Local Government in Western Province under Section 02 of the Local Government Authorities(Standard Bylaws) Act No. 06 of 1952 read with Section 02 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of1989, has been published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1888/47dated 14th November 2014 and the same draft Bylaws ; along with amendments as stated in the schedule below were adoptedby the Western Province Provincial Council on 22nd September 2015 as per provisions of Section 03 of the Local GovernmentAuthorities (Standared Bylaws) Act No. 06 of 1952 read with Section 02 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)Act No. 12 of 1989

ISURA DEVAPRIYA,Chief Minister and Minister of Finance andPlanning, Engineering Servces, Law and Order,Local Government and ProvincialAdministration, Economic Development,Electricity and Energy, Enviornmental Affairs,Water Supplies and Drainage and TourismAffairs of Western Province.

Chief Ministry of the Western Provincial Council,Shrawasthi Mandiraya,Colombo 07,23rd December, 2015'

The aforementioned schedule being :

1A

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20152A

BY -LAW RELATING TO REGULARIZATION OF DECORATIONS

1. This By-law shall b e enforced for the regularization and control of decorations carried out within the PradeshiyaSabha area of authority and levying charges on such.

2. This By-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Regularization of Decorations within the Pradeshiya Sabha areaof authority.

3. The objective of this By-law shall be to regularize and control decorations carried out by the public in streetslocated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

4. No person shall hereinafter carry Out decorations in streets and public places located in the Pradeshiya Sabhaarea of authority without a permit issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or the officer authorized by him.

5. Where a permit is intended to be obtained for particular decorative purpose, an application made as per ScheduleI of the By-law shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council 48 hours prior to the carrying out of the said decoration.

6. Subsequent to forwarding of an applicatoin, a permit to carry out decorations will be issued by the Chairmanconforming to the provisions of this By-law.

7. Even under a permit, polythene shall no occasion be used for whatever decorating purposes.

8. The charges to be levied on every permit under this By-law shall be the charges imposed through a resolutionpassed at the Council from time to time.

(1) Every person applying for every decorating purpose under the By-law shall deposit at the Council a depositamount as decided by the Council for such purpose.

(2) Where the decorations are not removed by a permit holder within 24 hours of the date specified in the permitfor removal of decorations, it is lawful for the Council to remove the said decorations and to deduct theexpense borne for such removal from the relevant deposit amount deposited in Council and pay to be depositorany remaining amount from the said deposit, if there is any.

9. Provisions stipulated in By-law 8 shall not be relevant to funeral decorations.

10. Any decoration carried out under this By-law shall not be carried on in a manner covering traffic signal boards,area maps and name boards.

11. Contravention of any provisions of this By-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penatly imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorised officer serves a written notice drawing attnetionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such contined contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

12. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this By-law ;

"Council" meand the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"A Decoration" means a temporary preparation for centain incident or task and such being the sole objective of andmade with artificial or natural material to represent the said incident or task and it shall not mean any flag orbanner prepared on behalf of certain religious or annual festival.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

SCHEDULE I

APPLICATION

1. Name of the street or public place to be decorated ;

2. Nature of the decoation :

3. Period of decoration :

4. Purpose of decoration :

5. Date decoratins will be removed :

6. How will the decoration waste be disposed ?:

I agree to exhibit decorations in conformation to accepted regulations of the Pradeshiya Sabha and I am well awarethat contravention of the relevant By-law or certain section of it shall be a punishable offence.

...............................................................,Signature of applicant.

Date :

BY-LAWS RELATING TO BAKERIES

1. This By-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control of bakeries conducted within the PradeshiyaSabha area of authority.

2. This By-lay shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Bakeries within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular functin has been obtained no person shallmaintain a bakery within the area of Authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the yearfor which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-laws in this part.

5. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part are fulfilled, the Chairman shall not issue a license toany Bakery -

(1) The conditions in this part shall have been fulfilled irrespective of the medium in which heat is obtained forfood produced in the Bakery -

(i) The Bakery shall be in proper repaired condition ;

(ii) Every room in the Bakery shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of theopened windows shall not be less than one fifteenth of the area of the floor of the room ;

(iii) Every room shall have ceilings fixed and the ceiling shall have been painted in white ;

(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with polished cement or tiled ;

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20154A

(v) While the room in which the oven of the Bakeny is located shall be at least in a height if 3 meters fromthe ground level of the room, it shall be built in bricks or cement blocks or Cabook blocks with bothsides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints ;

(vi) Every room in the Bakery other than the room where the oven is located shall be in a height of at least2'75 Meters form the floor level to the ceiling level, and they shall be built in bricks or cement blocks orCabook blocks or Aluminium or timber with both sides of the wallss being plastered and applied withparints ;

(vii) All fittings in the Bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints ; while the roof shall havebeen built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at least 1.8 metersa above the floor level andthe reservation for he eaves shall be at least 1 meter in width ;

(viii) Arrangement shall have been made to use potable water for porduction purposes ;

(ix) While a supply of safe water shall have been provided through pipes to every room using water in theproduction process, action shall have been taien to provide a drainage system sufficient to allo theflow of waste water ;

(x) Waste water disposed of shall be allowed to flow into a suction pit ;

(xi) Waste disposal programe shall have been put in place in the manner prescribed in ths By-law.

(2) Where the Bakery requesting a licence is one that uses firewood,

(i) The upper edge of the chimeny of the oven of the Bakety shall have been built at a hegiht of at least7.5 meters above the ground level ;

(ii) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smoothy where thejoints shall have been joined leaving no spaces between the joints. Otherwise they shall be coveredwith stainless metal sheets with no joints ;

(iii) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removed from the oven of theBakery shall be supplied ;

(iv) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime ;

(v) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instruments shallhave been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the Bakey.

(3) Where the Bakery requesting a licence is one that uses electricity -

(i) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall be in a safe condition, tripswitches functioning automatically during high voltage and leaks in electricity shall have been fixed ;

(ii) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premises shall be drawn throughpipes or boxes without leakages of electricy, there shall not be ends of electric cables open to theoutside ;

(iii) Oridinary firefighting equipmwent and electric fire exitnguishers shall have been provided and electriccables of electric circuits shall be drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity, thereshall not be ends of electric cables open to the outside ;

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

6.All spaces prescribed in Section 5, to have been applied with paints shall be so applied with paints at least oncea year.

7. The floor and table of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once every day.

8. The bakery and its environment, drains furnituere and equipment shall be kept clean and in very good condition.

9. Unless tha date of expiry of flour and other materials used in the manufacture of bakery products are at a sufficientdate in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of bakery products at any time.

10. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease has notelapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had been recetnlynursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself in whatever type of sale or be employed as anassistant of any person engaged in such business or caused to be engaged so or, allowed to be engaged in any task.

(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employanybody else in any form of work at any licensed premise.

(c) It shall be the duty of the license to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical test at leastonce a year.

11. It shall be the duty of the license to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary andto ensure that the employees are wearing therse safety materials when they are on duty at the licensed premises and also toensure that at every time they engaged in work at the bakery that they have cleaned themselves well having wahsed theirbodies prior to such engagement at the bakery.

12. (1) Proviced that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are refused, action shall be taekn tocategorize the waste material under the categories -

(i) bio degradable waste ;

(ii) glass ;

(iii) paper of paper based materials ;

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by-products or other partsproduced in the production line ;

(vii) dangerous waste.

and it shall be the duty license to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for thatpurpose

(2) Ulnless the waste categorized as above is disposed under he waste management programme of the Council, theyshall be disposed in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.

13. Water not suitable for human consumption shall not be used for any bakery production.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20156A

14. While a separate room exclusively used for the storageof flour and other maerials used in the bakery shall bemaintained it shall be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of flies or other insects and rats.

15. When storing flour in the store room mentioned in Section 14 above, a rack made of timber on a stant at a heightof 20 Centimeter from the flour level shall be used and the particular rack shall have been finished so as to facilitae itsmovement from place when empty. Moreover, while the said rack shall have been covered so as to prement rats and otherkinds of insects remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at least 23 Centimeters away from the wall.

16. It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned in Section 15 are taken out and cleaned at least twicea month.

17. While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the By-laws in this part, action shall betaken not to keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for the functions of the bakery shallnot be included to this.

18. Sufficient lavatory and urinal facilities shall be made available for employee engaged in service at the bakery.

19. Where the water utilized for bakery production is stored in an underground tank, action shall be taken not tolocate a suction pit, or fertilizer pit or ash pit less than 18 meters away from such tank.

20. All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and soap orliquid soap.

21. No person shall smoke, chew betel or chew any other material or partake of food inside the bakery except in aplace specifically allocated to such task.

22. It shall be the duty of the lincense to put in place a scale sith standard weights or any other type of standaredscale at a clearly visible place in all the premises licensed under the provisions of the By-laws in this part and to take actionto weigh at the request of any customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for sale.

23. In the event of the delivery of bakery products of any bakery by the lincense himself if shall by the duty of thelicense to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust of other kinds of waste material or water.

24. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by anAuthoized Officer shall mean any occasion when production is carried out.

25. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of bakery productkept for saoe or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any bakery, no license shall resist or prevent suchpurchase.

26. In the event of the premises where bakery products are producted is carried on under a licence issued under theBy-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in Section 05 or contravenes wtheprovisions of any By-law of the By-laws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensedemanding hm to accoplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specifieddate.

27. Any license in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 26 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice beforethe date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing in Chairman shall havethe power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more thanfourteen days.

28. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 26 fails to act in accordance with the manner setout in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel thelicence issued to that premises.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

29. Contravention of any provisions of this By-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisduction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is contined even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

30. In this part, unless the context other wise requires -

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Pradeshiya Sabha are of authority" means the area of in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established ;

"Authorized Officer" means an officer authorized for specific duty by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha for aspecific time period.

BY-LAWS RELATING TO OFFENSIVE TRADES, DANGEROUS TRADES AND DANGEROUS ANDOFFENSIVE TRADES

1. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision, inspection and conrol of Offensive Trades, DangerousTrades an Dangerous and Offensive Trades carried on within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

2. These By-laws shall be cited as "By-laws Relating or Offensive Trades, Dangerous Trades and Dangerous andOffensive Trades within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority".

3. No person other than a holder of a license issued by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha for the purpose shall carryon any offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

4. Every licence issued under the provisions of these By-laws shall be valid up to 31st of December of the year forwhich it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

5. In the event of there being a permanent building used as the business premises to conduct the said business, itshall be a building constructed as per a plan approved by Chairman and unless the said building complies to the conditins setout below, no person shall receive a right to conduct a business pertainng to any offensive trade, dangerous trade oroffensive and dangerous trade.

(a) The premise shall have been properly maintained in good repair and shall have good ventilation and lightwhile every room shall have been fixed with windows which have an area of not less than on fifteenth of thefloor area of the room, when opened up ;

(b) Wihle the minimum height of walls and all the parts thereof of all the rooms shall not be less than 2.14 Meters,in the events of them being built with bricks, granite, cement blocks or cabook blocks ; their inner sides shallhave been planstered with cement mortar up to a height of 2 Meters from the floor level, with remaining partbeing applied with lime mixed plaster, and colour-painted ;

(c) Every eave shall be at a height of at least 2 Meters from the floor level ;

(d) The roof shall have been built using solid materials ;

(e) All the surfaces of timber work shall be applied with oil paints and or lime paints ;

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.20158A

(f) The whole floor space shall be finished off with cement ;

(g) The premises shall be constructed with sufficient water subsiding facility ;

(h) The premises shall be provided with sanitary dust bins and adequate toilet facilities.

6. Every licence holder shall store all materials necessary for carrying on the trade in such a manner that no offensiveofcours will emanate from them or create any nuisance.

7. Every licence holder when taking away things that can cause offensive odours or nuisances from the licensedpremises along public thoroughfares shall take them in closed non-absorent vessels to prevent odours or nuisances.

8. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generatedin a production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppressive results whenthey are dispresed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device.

9. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conducted andmaintain them properly and wash then daily.

10. Evey licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them ingood repair and shall cause then to be washed daily.

11. Every lincece holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business.

12. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including euqipment and utensils used in the trading activitiescleanly.

13. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his businesspremises, trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop-waste and by-products unless the yare used in businessactivities further and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sahba.

14. Every lincece holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar materials afteremptying them to prevent stinking.

15. Every lincece holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not bepolluted by causing certain dirty odoursome or oppressive water or other such liquid to be sent down or to flow into a river,stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them or in some other way.

16. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Pradeshya Sabha specially authorized by the Chairman forthe relevant prupose to ener premises where an offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade is carriedofficial hours and to inspect the premises. It shall be the duty of the lincence holder or the person in charge of the premisesto allow such inspections.

17. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non-complying to the provisions of theseBy-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take acion to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish the necessaryconditions to restore and said premises to the proper order before a specified time period. It shall be the duty of the licenceholder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails action accordingly, the Chairman has power to cancel thelicence at such an occasion.

18. It shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an applicaton requesting for a licence to carry on any trade, toissue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with these By-laws. Ifthe Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along with reasons for his refusal.

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

19. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages ofSinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the licence at a conspicuousplace in the licence holding premises.

20. Every notice issued under this By-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case maybe. In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premises. It shall not berequired to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice.

21. Contravention of any provisions of his By-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such ocntraventioin or violation, for each day of such continued contraventiion, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the miximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126 ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

22. In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires,

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means he Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.

"An authorized officer of Pradeshiya Sabha", means the officer/officers authorized by the Chairman to implementthis By-law ;

"Licensee" means any person who has been issued a licence to carry on a trade under these By-laws ;

"Trade" means manufacturing of a good or material, preparing such for sale, collecting or maintaining such with anobjective for marketing ;

"Person" includes a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated ;

"Person assigned with control" means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other personassigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.

SCHEDULE I

OFFENSIVE TRADES

1. Manufacturing and storing for sale Fertilizer or Chemical Fertilizer.2. Curing hides.3. Keeping hides for sale.4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)5. Conducting a studio6. Running a veterinary clinic7. Storing of perishable foods for selling8. Keeping dru fish, salted fish or jadi exceeding 150 Kgs.9. Making charcoal from coconut shells or timber or storing charcoal10. Maintaining a place for processing or storing tobacco11. Manufacturing animal food or maintaining animal food storage12. Manufacturing poonac or storing poonac more than 200 Kgs.13. Manufacturing soaps

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201510A

14. Grinding or storing animal bones15. Keeping new metals or old metals stored16. Keeping a place for storing debris of metal17. Manufacturing or storing of furniture18. Manufacturing cane products19. Running a carpentry workshop20. Manufacturing syrups of fruit drinks21. Manufacturing of sweet-meats22. Soaking or curing coconut husks23. Manufacturing of brushes (Other than tooth brushes)24. Manufacturing tooth brushes25. Collecting toddy26. Manufacturing or storing vinegar27. Maintaining a mechanically or manually operated timber sawing place28. Manufacture of paints, varnish or distemper or storing them more than 100 Liters29. Manufacture of soda30. Manufactureof leather products31. Packing in tins fruits, fish or other varieties of food32. Maintaining a grinding place for grinding chilies, coffee, grains, pulses, spices or flour33. Manufacture of candles34. Manufacture of camphor35. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink36. Manufacture of washing blue37. Manufacture of resin38. Manufacture of perfumes and maintaining a storing place for such39. Manufacture of school-chalks40. Maintaining a place for storing tyres or tubes more than so in number41. Retreading of tyres42. Maintaining a place for vulcanizing tyre tubes43. Maintaining a cement storage for storing more than 1000 Kgs.44. Manufacture of cement and asbestos based products45. Manufacture of plastic items46. Manufacture of textiles by power loan47. Cleaning of gunnies used for packing fertilizer, lime, flour or similar materials48. Manufacturing cement blocks mechanically49. Storage of grains or pulses more than 250 Kgs.

SCHEDULE II

DANGEROUS TRADES

1. Storing more than 750 Kg. of sugar, flur or salt for wholesale2. Ready-made apparel production3. Maintaining a printing press4. Maintaining hen-pen for more than 100 hens5. Maintainng a herd or pen for more than 10 goats or pigs6. Storing bricks or roofing tiles7. Maintaining a firewood storage8. Mechanical or manual excavation or crushing of granite9. Soft drink manufacturing or storing more than 100 bottles of soft drinks10. Ice-cream production11. Coconit oil manufacturing or storing more than 300 Liters12. Matchbox manufacturing or storing more than 100 dozens of match boxes

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

13. Coir or other fiber based products or storing such products14. Storing used apparel15. Jewellery production of repair16. Mechanically operated timber sawing17. Maintaining a factorie that use machines18. Storing empty sacks or empty bottles19. Maintainng a plce for motor cycle or bicycle repair20. Storing used paper or newspapers.21. Maintaining a place for sprayed painting22. Storing or manufacturing fireworks or crakers23. Storing other vegetable oil except coconut oil more than 50 Liters24. Storing frozen meat or fish25. Storing timber

SCHEDULE III

OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADES

1. Processing cinnamon, cardamom or varieties of bristles using chemicals2. Dry cleaning or dyeing clothes3. Fabric printing or fabric dyeing4. Maintainng a place for electroplating5. Incineratin of corla or limestone, processing and storing slaked lime6. Maintaining a place for charging or reparing batteries7. Maintaining a place for repairing motor vehicles8. Maintaining a place for servicing motor vehicles9. Running a foundry10. Running a workshop for manufacture of tin products11. Maintaining a gas cylinder storing place12. Producting Ayurvedic or indigenous medicine or mixing such medicine13. Storing galssware or glass panels14. Maintaining a factory related to plastic or fiber products15. Storing tea leaves more than 150 Kg.16. Maintaining a place for wedling17. Maintaining a lathe machine workshop18. Maintaining a place for storage of petrol, diesel, oil or other petroleum based oil19. Fertilizer production or storing20. Servicing or repairing air conditioners, regrigerators or freezers21. Maintaining electrical workshop or electrical equipment manufacturing or repairing place22. Maintaining a milk freezing center

BY-LAW RELATING TO HOTELS AND LODGES

1. This By-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control hotels and lodgings located within the PradeshiyaSabha area of authority.

2. This By-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Hotels and Lodges located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area ofauthority.

3. No person shall maintain a hotel or lodge (hereinafter referred to as "place") within the Pradeshiya Sabha area ofauthority unless he is in possession of a valid license issued by the Chairman for the said purpose.

4. Every license issued under this By-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall terminate on 31st of December of the year forwhich is was issued.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201512A

5. A place applied for obtaining a license shall be a construction constructed according to a site plan approved bythe Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha.

6. The Chaiman shall not issue a license to any hotel or lodge unless the conditions stated below in this By-law havestrictly been followed.

(1) The place shall be maintained in a paper repaired condition.

(2) The walls of rooms in the place shall be of height hot less than 2.5 Meters whereas those walls shoul beconstructed in brick, cement blocks of Cabook blocks and plastered on both sides with paint applied.However, except the kitchen, other rooms constructed by wood or certain metal sheets with paint applied onit shall consider to be in compliance to this regulation'

(3) Every room of the place should be fixed with a ceiling and the said ceiling should be at a height not less than2.5 Meters from floor level.

(4) Evey room should have windows fixed enabling them to be opened to outside and when the windows ofeach room is opened, the extent of square feet of those window frames should not be less than the squarefeet extent of the floor of the relevant room.

(5) The roof shall be mae of some solid material.

(6) The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be atleast 1.5 meters in width.

(7) The floor of every room shall be cement-plastered and polished or tiled.

(8) Waste bins shall be kept to collect waste generated within the place and all the waste bins should have lidsto keep them well covered from preventing flies or other insects gaining access to them.

(9) In order to dispose the waste generated within the place, necessary provisions should have been allocatedto be able to conform to the regulations enforced under this By-law.

(10) A certificate of standard issued by the National Water Supplies and Drainage Board certifying that the waterused in the place is suitable for human consumption whereupon the said certificate of standard should atleast be obtained every six months. If the water supplied by the National Water Supplies and Drainage Boardis used in the place, it shall be considered that the said certificate of standard has already been received.

(11) If the waste used for activities of the place is kept stored, sufficient provisions should be allocated toprevent such water from getting polluted.

(12) A separate place for the purpose of washind utensils used by the clients should be maintained at the place.

(13) Separate toilets and urinals for males and females should be constructed providing such facilities to theclients and staff to a ratio of at least one toilet or urinal per every 10 persons.

(14) The walls of every toilet or urinal shall be constructed by bricks, cement blocks or Cabook blocks or non-corrosive metal sheets and have floors plastered and polished in cement or tiled and in case of walls beingconstructed in non-corrosive metal sheets, such walls should have painted surfaces.

(15) Sufficient number of bathrooms should be constructed for the use of staff employed in the place and theregulations enforced in above Sub-section (14) should also be relevant to the daid bathroom floors andwalls.

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

(16) Within the part allocated for clients' use in the place, wash basins made of non-corrosive metal sheets orpolished ceramic or made in brick or cement blocks and tiles, should be fixled for clients, use to wash theirhands.

(17) Proper drainage system to allow unobstrusced flow of waste water disposed after use in any part of teh placeshould be constructed.

(18) Where the Pradeshiya Sabha maintains a drainage system, the waste water disposed from the place may bereleased to the said drainage system as the Pradeshiya Sabha regulates and in the absence of such, saidwaste water should cause to be flow into a pit to absorb such waste water.

(19) Fire extinguishing equipment should be made available at the place and a fire protection certificate relevantto the place should be obtained.

(20) In the rooms allocated for clients and employees to sleep in within he place, the space allocated for sleepingby one person shall not be less than 4 Meters.

7. The license holding place shall at least be swept twice a day and waste water flowing drains shall be cleaned twicea day and washed out with water.

8. Except in rooms speciafically allocated as sleeping rooms, in the license holding place no other room shall beallocated to be slept by whoever person.

9. Name, address and identity card number of each person obtaining room facilities in the lincesed place shall berecorded in a register and where the said register is requested by the Chairman, authorized officer or certain Police Officer forinspection, the licensee's task is to allow such inspection.

10. Every room of license holding place, subsequent to be used by one client, shall not be handed over to the useof another client unless the bed sheets, pillow covers, blankets, towels and other used clothes in that room are washed andcleaned. Prior to handing over the said room to the client who arrived later on, the windows of the said room shall be keptcompletely opened for minimum of 04 hours.

11. In any bedroom, food preparing place or in a part allocated for food consumption within the license holdingplace, no animal whatsoever shall be kept.

12. The toilets and urinals of the license holding place shall be cleaned and sprinkled with aniseptics twice a dayminimum and be kept odourless. However, cleaning the toilets of a particular room occupied by clients once a day shall beconsidered as sufficient.

13. All the wares, utensils and equipment used for preparation of food, containing food put on display for sellingpurpose and utensils used by clients at the license holding place shall be washed in clean water prior to their use and causingthem to be cleaned after use shall be the responsibility of the license holder.

14. All the waste collected in each place of the license holding place should be categorized as specified in Section16 of this By-laws and couse to be immediately disposed to a bin made of impenetrable material and take measures to removethe said waste from that place at least once or where required, more than once taking care to keep those bins well coveredexcept in occasions where waste is put into those bins and removal of waste from the said bins.

15. In no occasion shall the waste disposed from the license holding place be scattered on the ground of the placeor within the compound of the place.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201514A

16. (1) Unless all the waste generated within a license holding place is re-used, the lincense holder bears theresponsibility of causing such waste to be categorized under

(i) Bio- degradable waste ;

(ii) Glass ;

(iii) Paper or paper related materials ;

(iv) Polythene and plastic or polythene and plastic related materials ;

(v) Iron or other metal materials or iron and other metal parts ;

(vi) Parts remaining from other raw materials used for production or by-product materials or parts received in theproduction process ;

(vii) Dangerous waste :

and causing each category of waste of be put into separate bins or tanks allocated for the disposing of each material.

(2) Unless the waste categorized and colleced in bins or tanks as stated in the above Sub-section is disposed underthe wase disposal management system of the Pradeshiya Sahba, it shall be disposed finally in a manner ordered by theChairman.

17. Every Licensed holding place should be kept free from rats, flies, or other insects whereas the lincense holder isresponsible for taking acton to make provisions to prevent materials used for food preparation of the said place and cookedfood and beverages from being polluted by the said creatures.

18. While serving food to clients, food shall not be touched by hand and for serving food, a spoon, fork or othersuch equipment shall be used.

19. (1) A person suffering from any infectious, contagious or skin disease ro had contacted such a disease in therecent past or a person who has egnaged in taking care of such person recently, unless the contagious or incubation periodof the said disease has expired, shall not engage or cause to be engaged in any type of work at a whatever license holdingplace or as an assistance to a person working thereof or let engage in such work.

(2) Unless dressed in clean clothes washed well, no person shall engage in whatever work at a licensed place orcause to be engaged in such work.

(3) The license holder is responsible for the referring of all the employees deployed in such licensed place at leastonce in every year for medical examination.

20. For every employee engaged in the preparation of food or beverages at the license holding place, aprons shouldbe provided and the license holders' task is to ensure that those aprons are worn by the said eployees every time they engagein work.

21. Every employee serving in the license holding place should be provided with clean water, clean towels andbrushes to celan nails, soap or liquid soap.

22. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to enter a license holding place to inspect whether theplace is maintained according to By-law regulations.

23. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or his authorized officer to pay for a sample prepared at certain license holdingplace or kept on sale in such place during such occasion no license holder shall reject for or obstruct such purchasing.

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

24. The location of a hotel issued with a lincese under this By-law terminates its existance in conformation towhatever regulation stated in Section 6 of this By-law, or found contrary to regulations of other By-laws of this part, a noticeordering the said license holder to take all necessary measures to restore the said place to be in conformation to those By-laws prior to certain specified date shall be served to the said license holder by the Chariman.

25. Contravention of any provisions of this By-law is deemed to be an office and when covicted for such offence bya court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized office serves a written notice drawing attention tosuch contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximuj of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

26. Unless other interpretation is requied regarding the text of this By-law :

"Council" means the Pradeshya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.

BY-LAW RELATING TO CREMATORIUMS

01. This By-law is enforced to regularize the cremation of cropses in every crematorium controlled under PradeshiyaSahba, levying charges for cremations and to regularize crematorium administration.

02. This By-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Crematoriums within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of Authority.

03. A corpse shall not be cremated in a crematorium functioning under the control of the Council without a passissued by the Chairman or an officer authorized in writing by him (hereinafter referred to as "Authorized Officer").

04. By a person who expects to obtain a pass stipulated under Section 03 (hereinafter referred to s "applicant") shall,forward to the Chairman or his authorized officer an application prepared in accordance with Schedule "a", along with thedocuments mentioned below.

(a) A dcoument confirming the connection between the deceased and the applicant, applicant's birth certificateor deceased person's birth certificate or applicant's marriage certificate or a certificate issued by the GramaNiladhari of the Grama Seva Divsion in which the deseased person was residing is sufficient therein ;

(b) If an autopsy was carried out under the Criminal Procedure Code in relation to the death of the persondemised, the certificate issued under Paragraph 41 (e) of the Registrtion of Births and Deaths Act by theCoroner or the Magistrate who carried out the autopsy allowing permission to cremate the corpse or in caseof a corpse resulting from a still birth, the certificate issued under Paragraph 43 (b) of the Registration ofBirths and Deaths Act.

05. Subsequent to handing over the fully filled application to the Chairman or authorized officer, it shall be documentedin order it was received.

06. If the corpse is accepted to be cremated, having charged the relevant fee, the pass shall be issued to theapplicant. The time to hand over the corpose to the person in charge of the crematorium shall be stated in the pass.

07. If the corpse is not accepted for cremation, the authorized officer shall, immediately and as the situation requires,inform in writing to the applicant about the reasons for such rejection.

08.Within the time period of 7.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. every day, corpses can be accepted for cremation.

09. The application shall hand over the corpse to the person in charge of the crematorium at the time indicated in thepass or 30 minutes immediately prior to that time. The Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be held responsible for difficuties or lossesincurred by late handover of corpses.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201516A

10. In every crematorium, details pretaining to ecah corpse cremated, such as the name of the applicant and address,National Identity card number, name of the person deceased, the address of the place in which he was residing prior todemise, the relationship between the applicant and the deceased, date and time of cremation, number and date of the pass,shall be documented by the person in charge of the crematorium.

11. Incinerated ash shall be collected by the representative before a lapse of 72 hours subseqent to the cremation ofthe corpse, However, by a request forwarded by the applican to the Chairman or authorized officer, the time period forkeeping incinereted ash in custody of the person in charge of the crematorium shall be extended. The Chairman or theauthorized officer shall have power to dispose incinerated ash theat is not collected within the specific period.

12. Entering the premises of the crematorium without obtaining permission from the crematorium-in-charge orChairman shall be an offense. Nevertheless, for a person or persons accompanying a pass holder for the purpose ofcremating a corpse shall be considered as provided with peremission to enter the crematorium for that purpose.

13. Behaving in a manner violating peace with the crematorium premises or causing damage to the property of thecrematorium premises or obstructing the officeial duties of the crematorium-in-charge or his assistants or carrying ourdecorations within the crematorium premises shall be an offinse.

14. Contravention of any provisions of this By-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penatly imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer servies a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or vilation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and mixumum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

15. (a) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to maintain the crematoriums in proper condition enablind cremation ofcorpses.

(b) If a crematorium is closed down for a certain period of time for the purpose of maintenance or renovation, it shallbe the duty of the Chairman to display the announcement regarding such closure at a conspicuous place at the crematoriumand at an office where passes are issued to enter the crematorium.

16. (a) The charges levied for the cremation of corpses can be imposed by time to time through a resolution passedat the Pradeshiya Sabha. Charges imposed thus may be amended by the Pradeshiya Sabha in instances considered asrequired by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(b) The charges imposed or amended by Paragraph (1) above, shall be announced by a Gazette notification.

17. Where the crematorium malfunctions while it is being used due to a mechanical error, the power relating todecision-making in such occastion lies with the Chairman and such matter shall a no occasion be made use to taking an actionagainst either the Pradeshiya Sabha or Chairman by the applicant.

18. Unless other meaning is required in relation to the text :

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" maeans the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Crematorium-in-charge", means a person appointed to serve as the in-charge of a crematorium controlled under thePradeshiya Sabha ;

"Corpse" means a corpse of a human being, or part thereof a corpse resulting from a still child birth.

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

SCHEDULE "A"

Application to Cremate the Corpse at the ............................................Crematorium

1. Full name of the applicant : ———— ;

Address : ———— ;

National Identity Card No. : ———— ;

Grama Seva Division : ———— ;

2. Name of the person deceased : ———— ;

Address she/he was residing in : ———— ;

Grama Seva Division : ———— ;

National Identity Card No. : ———— ;

3. Applicant's relationship to the deceased : ———— ;

4. Number and Date of the Death Certificate : ———— ;

5. Name and Address of the Secretary registering the death : ———— ;

6. Reason for death : ———— ;

7. If an autopsy was conducted in relation to the death, the date and time of autopsy : ———— ;

8. Name and Designation of the Inspection Officer : ———— ;

9. Conclusion of the Inspection Officer : ———— ;

10. Whether permission be allowed for the body to be cremated : ———— ;

11. Date and time required for crermation :(According to the order of preference)

(i) ................................................................(ii) ................................................................(iii) ................................................................

It is hereby declared that all the above mentioned details are accurate and true. Relevant copies have been attached.

..........................................................Signature of the Applicant and Date.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201518A

For office use only

1. Issuance of the pass is approved. Due to following reasons issuance of a pass is rejected.

.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

..........................................................Signature,Chairman/Authorized Officer.Date : ...............................................

Chairman/Authorized Officr

1. Recorded in the Register

Rs. ................................. was charged by the Recept No. ............................................Date : .........................

2. The pass is forwarded for placement of the signature.3. The letter containing reasons for the rejection of the request is forwarded for signature.

..........................................................Signature, of the Officer in Charge.

Date : .......................................

BY-LAWS RELATING TO EATING HOUSES

1. This By-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the maintenance of eating houses within thePradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

2. This By-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Eating Houses within Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority

3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular functin has been obtained no person shallmaintain an eating house with the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the yearfor which it had been issued unless it was cancelled earlier.

5. Unless the following conditions in he By-laws of this part are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a license to anyeating house :

(1) All permanent constructions related to an eating houlse shall be constructed according to a plan approvedby the Chairman ;

(2) The premises shall be maintained in proper reparied condition ;

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

(3) While the minium height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 Meters, both sides of the wallsshalls have been plastered with mortar and applied with paints, in the event of their being built in solidmaterials ;

(4) While every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a height of not less than 2.5Meters from the ground level ;

(5) Every room shall have windown that could be opened to the outside. The area of the opened wihdows shallnot be less than one fifteenth that area of the floor of the room. However, where any room is air conditioned,this provision may not be applied in the same manner ;

(6) The roof shall be made of some solid material ;

(7) The floor of the eating house shall be plastered in cement and polished or tiled ;

(8) While waste bins shall be placed to collect waste gemerated in the eating house premises and they shallhave lids to keep them closed so as to prevent entry of flies or other kinds of insects ;

(9) In otder to dispose the waste generated within the eating house premises, necessary provisions shouldhave been allocated to be albe to take actions stated hereinafter under this By-law ;

(10) All furniture used within the premises shall be of proper finish and tables and chairs should be made in woodor metal and polished with table tops covered in glass pane ;

(11) A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used by the customers ;

(12) Separate lavatories and urinals for males and females should be constructed providing such facilities to theclients and staff sufficiently ;

(13) In the section of the premises assigned for the use of the customers wash basins made of stainless metal orpolished ceramic clay may polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled, should be mace availableincluding water facilities ;

(14) Proper drainage system to allow unobstructed flow of waste wate disposed after use in any part of he placeshould be constructed. In no occasion shall the drains be opened to a place of common access ;

(15) Sufficient fire extinguishing equipment shoud be made available at the place ;

(16) The place where tea or coffee is prepared in the premises shall be covered i non-corrosive metal sheet orapplied with tiles or covered in other water resistant material.

6. Keeping the eating house and all the premises attached to it in proper condition with paint applied would be thelicense holder's task.

7. The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day and the drains carrying waste wate shall becleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.

8. Animals such as dogs or cats shall not be reared as pets within the eating house premises.

9.The lavatories and urinals at the eating house premises shall be cleaned and sprinkled with antiseptics twice a dayminimum and be kept odourless.

10. For containing food or handling of food items within the eating house, proper utensils should be used and theyshall be kept in good clean condition.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201520A

11. (a) All the waste generated within the eating house premises shall be separated as follows and collectedseparately in bins

(i) Bio-degradable waste ;

(ii) Glass ;

(iii) Paper or paper related materials ;

(iv) Polythene and plastic or polythene and plastic related materials ;

(v) Iron or other metal meterials or iron and other metal parts.

(b) waste collected within the eating house premises as per methods stated in above sub section shall be sent for thefinal disposal in accordance to a waste management programme currently in operation within that area of authority.

12. (a) A person suffering from any infectious, contagious or skin disease or had contacted such a disease in therecent past or a person who has engaged in taking care of such person recently, unless the contagious or incubation periodof the said disease has expired, shall not engage or cause to be engaged in any type of work at a whatever eating housepremises or as an assistance to a person working thereof or le engage in such work.

(b) Unless dressed in clean clothes washed well, no person shall engage in whateve work at a eating house premisesor cause to be engaged in such work.

(c) The license holder is resposible for the referring of all the employees deployed is such licensed place at leastonce in every year for medical examination.

13. For evey employee engaged in the preparation of food or beverages at the license holding place, aprons shouldbe provided and the license holder's task is to ensure that those aprons are worn by the said employees every time theyengage in work.

14. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any king of food preparedwithin the eating house premises or kept for sale in the premises, no license shall desist or pervent such purchase.

15. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him a to enter a license holding place to inspect whetherthe place is maintained according to By-law regulations and the lincese holder or person in charge of the place shall allowsuch inspection while providing their full support.

16. Where an eating house is constructed in manner contravening the provisions of this By-law and where theChairman has served a notice of such contravention, in the event of taking accurate measures during the time period allottedfor manedment of the said fault, it is lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued.

17. Maintaining an eating house without a license under this By-law deemed to be an offence and subsequent tobeing convicted for such offence by a Magistrate Court, the offender shall be subjected to a penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987

18. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this By-law -

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Authorized Officer" means and officer authorized for specific or common duty by the Chairman.

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

BY -LAW RELATING TO THE SALE OF FISH

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the sale of fish within the Pradeshiya Sabhaarea of authority and charges levied on such services.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Sale of Fish within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority.

3. No person within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority shall use any premises for the purpose of selling fishwithout a valid licence issued under the provisions of this by-law by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha .

4. Unless the premises applied for obtaining a license under this by-law is in conformity with the conditions set outbelow the Chairman shall not issue a licence to anybody to carry on a fish sales center -

(a) The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied withrust proof metal sheets;

(b) The floor of the premises where fish is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished offwith cement or laid with tiles ;

(c) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate theflow of waste water;

(d) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through thedrains referred to in paragraph (3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken todrain off such waste water to a suction pit ;

(e) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to air ;

(f) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the fish market shall be made availablewhereas action shall be taken at the end of the day's sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5 metersdeep in the ground or to dispose such in the manner decided and implemented by the Pradeshiya Sabha fromtime to time.

5. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action shall be taken to wash and clean the floor, the tiledor cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other utensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale with disinfectantfluid.

6. Measures shall be taken to keep the licensed fish stall and its surrounding drains, all the utensils and equipmentsused in fish storage, preparation or sales in proper repaired condition and without odour.

7. Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed fish stall are stored in a deepfreezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the opening of the stall for saleson the following day no species of fish left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibited for saltf or kept in the deep freezer or atthe licensed stall on the following day.

8. Any licensed fish stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

9. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of fish no other goods or clothes or matsused for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

10. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease has notelapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or hadbeen recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself in whatever typeof sale or be employed as an assistant of any person engaged in such business or caused to be engaged soor, allowed to be engaged in any task. ;

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201522A

(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employanybody else in any form of work at any fish stall ;

(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the fish stall to a medical test at leastonce a year.

11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply all the employees employed in the fish stall with safety face-masks,gloves, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materialswhen they are on duty at the fish stall.

12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or liquid soap for the use of all persons employed at thelicensed premises.

13. While it shall be lawful for the Municipal Commissioner or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind offish kept for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any fish stall, no licensee shall resist or prevent suchpurchase.

14. (1) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are reused, action shall be taken tocategorize the waste material under the categories.-

(i) biodegradable waste;

(ii) glass;

(iii) paperor paper based materials;

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics;

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or otherparts produced in the production line ;

(vii) dangerous waste;

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place forthat purpose.

(2) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in Sub-section (l) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the PradeshiyaSabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.

15. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the by-laws in this part by the Municipal Commissioneror by an Authorized Officer shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the fish-stall.

16. In the event of the premises where sale of fish is carried on under a licence issued under the By-laws of this Partfails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in Section 4 of this by-law or contravenes theprovisions of any By-law of the Bylaws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licenseedemanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specifieddate.

17. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in the above By-law shall act in the manner prescribed in the noticebefore the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing, the Chairmanshall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be morethan fourteen days.

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

18. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 16 fails to act in accordance with the manner setout in the notice, before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel thelicence issued to that premises.

19. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

20. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this By-law :

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.

BY-LAW RELATING TO VEHICLE CONTROL IN ROADSWITHIN THE PRADESHIYA SABHA A UTHORITIES

1. This by-law is enforced to regulate weight and speed limits in Pradeshiya Sabha roads, minimizing the possibilityof damage to a road and thoroughfare posed thereby and control of transportation within Pradeshiya Sabha authorities.

2. This by-law shall be named as 'By-law relating to Weight and Speed Limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Roads'.

3. Through a resolution passed at the Pradehiya Sabha, specifying the maximum weight and speed for a vehicletravelling in a road or thoroughfare considered as suitable by the Pradeshiya Sabha from among the roads and thoroughfaressituated within the said Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority, is lawful.

4. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall display the regulations specified in above Section 03 at the startingpoint or ending point or at main access points of the said road or thoroughfare by way of a notice board or notice boards tobe seen by the public.

5. When performing the regulations stated in the above Section 4, the relevant notice boards shall be displaye!i inaccordance to regulations enforced by the Thoroughfares Ordinance and Motor Traffic Ordinance

6. Where a road or thoroughfare controlled under the Pradeshiya Sabha is reconstructed or constructed, subsequentto a notice issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha prior to three days of such reconstruction or construction, theChairman may close or restrict transportation in the said road or thoroughfare or part thereof.

7. The residents residing beside the road or thoroughfare controlled under the Pradeshiya Sabha shall not causewaste water to flow into the road or thoroughfare.

8. The residents residing beside the road or thoroughfare controlled under the Pradeshiya Sabha shall preventbranches of trees from protruding on to the road or thoroughfare in an obstructing or hindering manner.

9. Breach or contravention of whatever provision of this by-law is an offence and when convicted before a court ofproper jurisdiction with regard to the relevant offence, the maximum penalty that may be imposed and where such breach orcontravention is continued further even after being convicted, and where the said contravention is continued even furthersubsequent to being handed over a written notice by the Chairman or other authorized officer drawing attention to the saidcontravention, the maximum additional penalty that may be imposed for each day of contravention shall repsective be themaximum penalty and maximum of the addtional penalty imposed by Sub-secion (2) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya SabhaAct No. 15 if 1987.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201524A

10. Unless other interpretation is required with regard to text,

"Thoroughfare and road" mean a road or thoroughfare situated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authorityproviding people with road rights, completely or partially being required or maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabhaor completely or partially repaired or maintaied by the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Vehicle" means the same meaning as provided under the Motor Traffic Ordinance.

BY-LAW RELATING TO ITINERARY TRADE

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control itinerary trade within Pradeshiya Sabha area ofauthority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as th~ "By-law Relating to Itinerary Trade within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area ofAuthority".

3. Provided that a valid permit issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha for the particulai function, no personshall sell or keep for' selling any goods, material or food at a road, thoroughfare, public park, playground or any other publicplace within the Pradeshiya Sabha area . --ofauthoritynr-sellor keep for selling such goods, material or food.while carryingthemto and fro by hands or bicycle or tricycle or cart or any other vehicle.

4. Every permit issued under above Section 03, unless cancelled earlier, will be valid for the whole period for whichit was issued.

5. Every request for itinerary trade shall be submitted in accordance to an application prepared as per the formatstated in Schedule "a" of this by-law. It has to be obtained after paying a fee decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

6. A permit issued under this by-law shall comply with the Schedule "b" of this by-law and the fee levied on that shallbe decided by the Sabha from time to time considering the periods.

7. Every itinerary vendor when he engages in trading activities shall wear the permit issued by the Chairman to Qevisible clearly or keep exposed the relevant part of the permit which is required to be displayed.

8. In every occasion where the vendor is informed by the Chairman or an officer authorized QY him to presentvendor's permit, every itinerary vendor shall present his permit and related documents. "

9. Unless the time has specifically been restricted according to the nature of the trade, every itinerary vendor inpossession of a permit holds the right to engage in his business from 6.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. Provided that the Chairman hasallowed him to engage in business beyond that time period and if that fact has been stated in the permit, it is lawful to engagein business.within that mentioned time period .

10. Any permit holder engaged in the itinerary trade shall p prevent himself from engaging in business if he issuffering from a contagious disease.

11. Every itinerary vendor engaged in the food selling business shall comply with the following provisions.

(1) The food items kept on the move for selling shall be kept so as to prevent contamination by flies, andcollection of dust,. waste, odour and such food shall not be allowed to be handled with bare hands bypersons.

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

(2) The vehicle, bicycle, cart, receptacles, trays and all the equipment and utensils in contact with food shall bekept in clean condition daily.

(3) Paper or materials used to wrap food shall be in good condition to be used for that purpose.

(4) Clean equipment and tools shall beused to handle food.

(5) No person suffering from a contagious disease shall be deployed for the sale of food items.

(6) Fire shall not be used in a manner dangerous or oppressive to a certain person or persons .

(7) Waste or waste water shall not be dumped in public places and proper measures shall have been taken toremove them in a manner satisfactory to the Chairman.

12. No itinerary vendor shall sell meat of an animal mentioned in the Butcher's Ordinance.

13. Where the Chairman has declared a particular area, zone, street, thoroughfare, business preventing itinerarytrading activities therein due to spreading of an epidemic or contagious disease or being an area where such had alreadyspread, or, due to some timely reason, itinerary trade shall not be conducted in such area, zone, street, thoroughfare even ifa vendor possesses a valid permit.

14. The waste generated in itinerary trading activities shall not be disposed to the external environment in any otherway except according to the system implemented within the said area by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

15. Even if holding a permit under this by-law itinerary trade shall not be conducted within a public fair.

16. No permit holder shall engaged in business while stalling in one place for a long time.

17. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where, such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence· or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

18. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -

"Sabha" means the Pradeshiya Sabha

"Cliairman" means the- Chlairman of Ptadeshiya Sabha

"Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.

"Food" means fo od and beverages taken form human consumption.

"Itinerary Trade" means a mobile trading activity kept on the move with the assistance of one's own self or animalor vehicle or cart or bicycle or tricycle.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201526A

SCHEDULE "A"

Application for Obtaining a Permit to Engage in Itinerary Trade

01.Full name of the Applicant : ————.

02.Permanent Adderess of Applicant : ————.

03.Temporary Address of Applicant : ————.

04.Applicant's National Identity Card No. : ————.

05.Applicant's telephone No. : ————.

06.Nature of itinerary trade : ————.

07.How itinerary business will be maintained : ————.

08.Area of authority applied for : ————.

09.Area of authority applicant resides in : ————.

10.Permit period required : ————.

11.Registered number of vehicle used for itinerary trade : ————.

....................................................,Signature of Applicant .

Instrucions :

1.Copy of the Identity Card to confirm permanent residence

Subject Clerk's report to issue the permit

....................................................,Signature of Subject Clerk.

Date : ..........................................Recommend/not recommend the issuance as permit.....................................................,Secretary.

Date : ..........................................

Recommend/not recommend the issuance of permit,

....................................................,Chairman,Pradeshiya Sabha.

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

SCHEDULE "II"

Permit To Engage in Itinerary Trade

01.Full name of the permit holder : ————.

02.Permit holder's National Identity Card No. : ————.

03.Nature of itinerary trade : ————.

04.Permitted area : ————.

05.Permit period : ————.

Date : .........................................

............................................Chairman,Pradeshiya Sabha.

(This part shall be worn to be visible clearly, or else, it shall be displayed)

PERMIT GIVEN TO ENGAGE IN ITINERARY TRADE WITHIN PRADESHIYA SABHA AREA OF AUTHORITY

01.Full Name : ————.

02.Permanent Address : ————.

03.National Identity Card No. : ————.

04.Permit holder's signature : ————.

05.Permitted area : ————.

06.Permit period : ————.

07.Nature of itinerary trade : ————.

08.Permit holder's signature : ————.

............................................Chairman,Pradeshiya Sabha.

Date : ...........................................

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201528A

BY LAW RELATING TO ADVERTISEMENTS

1. This. by-law will be enforced for the purpose of regularization, control of advertisements displayed conspicuouslyto a road located within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority and for levying charges on advertisements advertised thus.

2. This by-law shall be named as the By-law Relating to Advertisements within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area ofAuthority.

3. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement to be conspicuous to certain road or thoroughfareunless he possesses a license issued by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha assigning power to do so.

4. For the purposes of this by-law, an advertisement means a board, banner, cutout or advertisements created bydrawing on Aluminium sheets, iron, polythene, fabric or paper, else an advertisement-board set up using galvanized iron oran advertisement displayed on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, boundary wall to promote certain place of trade, trade materialor business by using letters or pictures or special advertisements displayed on festive occasions like trade exhibitions andcarnivals, and erected to be conspicuous to the main road, byroad, Provincial Council, Pradeshiya Sabha or private road.

5. Under this By-law,

(1) Every application requesting a license for the display of whatever advertisement shall comply to the formatstated in the first schedule herein and shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council at least prior to threedays of such date on which the said advertisement is meant to be displayed according to the sixth sectionof this by-law.

(2) The fee charged for an application issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha may be decided by the Council from timeto time through a resolution passed at the Council.

6. Every application forwarded under Section 5 of this by-law shall satisfy the following requirements.

(1) Ground plan drawn not less than the scale relative to the location of the structure where the advertisementis to be set up.

(2) The diagram of that structure drawn in scale not less than 1: 1000

(3) If any amendments so as to comply with these by-laws exist in that plan, diagram or specification, includingsuch amendments.

(4) A copy of the same advertisement drawn in small scale and had all the colours applied that of the advertisementto be displayed.

(5) The plan indicating the location of the advertisement in relation to the adjacent roads and main land marks.

7. Unless conforming to plans, diagrams and specifications approved by way of a written document by the Chairmanof the Pradeshiya Sabha, no person shall construct or cause to construct within the Pradesiya Sabha area of authority anyadvertisement or advertisements or any board, billboard, advertising boards, or any other structure to be utilized for the taskof display.

8. Where an application forwarded under Section 5 of this By-law is approved by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha,the applicant shall not be issued with a license until prescribed charges decided upon as per schedule (2) below had beenpaid.

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

9. Where a license has been issued to a person for displaying an advertisement board, the Pradeshiya Sabha shallorder the said person to include license reference No. and license holder's name in every advertisement displayed by him.

10. The provisions stated in these by-laws shall not be relevant to any of the advertisements stated below unlesssuch advertisement is a electrical advertisement or sky name board;

(a) A notice relating to a concert that deploys the amount of net revenue for charity affairs;

(b) An advertisement relating to a concert and displayed on the spot where the said concert is held;

(c) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting;

(d) An advertisement stating "to be let on rent" ;

(e) An advertisement stating "for sale";

(f) House name boards;

(g) Name boards utilized for professional activities and not exceeding 0.93 Square Meters in area;

(h) A vehicle used for some trade purpose displaying and advertisement indicating the nature of that tradeaffair or business, owner's name, address, telephone No. and e-mail address.

11. No person shall :

(1) display an advertisement on top of a street, road or footpath, or, across or protruding to such street, road orfootpath;

(2) display an advertisement on a board exceeding 15 meters height from the floor level;

(3) fix or let hang an advertisement on the surface of a building facing a street or road or on a name board of abusiness place or, in a manner exceeding the length of the surface of the said building;

(4) construct or set up an advertisement in the nature of sky advertisement without prior approval of thePradeshiya Sabha.

12. No person shall display an advertisement on a private or public building, place of religious worship, Public Parkor on a bridge or overhead passenger bridge, telephone or electricity post, side wall, dam, anicut, culvert, rock, bank or tree.

13. No advertisement shall be constructed or set up in an area specifically indicated in a resolution adopted by theCouncil and duly published in the gazette paper unless it is a trade center board constructed or set up in accordance to themanner approved by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

14. Without the permission of Chairman o the f Pradeshiya Sabha, using a radio, gramophone, musical instrument,a bell or other equipment by any person for the purpose of displaying or introducing any advertisement in a street or roadlocated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority would be illegal.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201530A

15. Under this By-law,

(1) Where a particular advertisement found to be displaying repulsive or revolting image and causing damageto public morality, the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha by way of a written announcement may order theperson advertising the said advertisement to stop displaying the advertisement within a time period specificallynotified by that announcement.

(2) Any person who has been served a notice under Section 01 of this by-law shall take action as per thesaid notice within the time specified therein.

16.The owner or lease holder of a board used for displaying advertisements;

(1) Shall maintain the said boards in proper repaired state and ensuring safety of persons.

(2) Shall display his name and address in legible letters on the front surface of the board in a clearly visibleplace

17. No person shall distort certain logo or number included by Pradeshiya Sabha in an advertisement to indicatethat the prescribed licence fee for the display of that advertisement has been paid.

18. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

19. It is lawful for the Pradeshiya Sabhya to remove without any prior notice the advertisements displayed within thePradeshiya Sabha area of authority without obtaining a license under this by-law.

20. Where certain person or institution has become an offender due to the reason of continuous display ofadvertisements without obtaining a license or due to contravention of conditions stipulated under this by-law, it is lawful forthe Pradeshiya Sabha to blacklist such person or institution regarding advertisement related activities within that PradeshiyaSabha area of authority.

21. Subsequent to receiving permission to display advertisements, eventhough the permit's period of validity isvalid for a future period, if an advertisement board or a cutout or a banner fixed in any manner or drawn on a wall or parapetwall has become torn, slants, collapses or discoloured, broken down, changed and affects the attractiveness of the city inwhichever manner, within 07 days of handing over a written notice to the relevant owner with regard to such advertisements,measures shall be taken by him to restore it and if such restoration does not take place, it is lawful for the Council to removesuch advertisement. Where the Council will have to remove the advertisement by deploying employees of the Council after14 days of such notice, the Council will not hold whatsoever responsibility regarding the said advertisement.

22. Unless Other meaning is required with regard to text, in this By-law.

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha,

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

SCHEDULE 01

Application for Display of Advertisements

1. Full Name of the Applicant : ————.

2. Permanent Address : ————.

3. Business, festival, exhibition, carnival, meeting or trading material expected to be promoted through theadvertisement : ————.

4. Location/locations where the advetisement is intended to be displayed : ————.

5. Has relevant format been attached ? : ————.

6. Type of advertisement expected to be displayed (banner, boards, cutouts, wall, parapet wall or permanent ) : ————.

7. Even after receiving approval to display your advertisement, in the event of such advertisement being discoloured,slanted, torn, collapses on to ground, would you agree to restore it ? : ————.

I hereby agree to display the advertisement in accordance to the regulations accepted by the Pradeshiya Sabhaand I am well aware that contravention of the relevant By-law or any section therein to be a punishable offence.

................................................(Signature of Applicant)

Date : ................................

The following documents have been attached.

I. Where the advertisement is a permanent one, the letter of consent obtained from the owner of the land wherethe said advertisement will be set up.

II. If the advertisement will be drawn on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, parapet wall or any such place, the letter ofconsent obtained from the owner of the said parapet wall, wall, boutique or hotel.

III. Details of how hand (space) will be used to draw or permanently fix the advertisement.

IV. The format relevant to the advertisement shall be presented clearly. (subsequent to issuance of the licence,permission will not be allowed to change the format in any way)

SCHEDULE 02

AccessionNature of BoardSquare MeterCharges RsNo.ExtentLess thanBetween 03An year03 monthsto 06months

01.Advertisements displayed on aLess than I250/-350/-500/-wall or parapet wallMore than IRs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding One Square Meter or part thereof

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201532A

02. Fabric, digital bannersLess than 3 250/-350/- 500/-More than 3 Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceedingThree Square Meters or part thereof03.Advertisements displayedLess than I500/-750/-1000/-through metal sheets or woodMore than IRs. 300/- per every Square Meter exceedingOne Square Meter or part thereof04.electrically operatedLess than I500/-750/-1000/-advertisementsMore than IRs. 300/- per every Square Meter exceedingOne Square Meter or part thereof05.Advertisements displayedLess than I250/-350/-500/-through polythene or cardboardMore than IRs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceedingOne Square Meter or part thereof06.Advertisements displayedLess than I250/-350/-500/-through plastic boards or fiberMore than IRs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceedingOne Square Meter or part thereof07.Advertisements displayed usingLess than I750/-850/-1000/-electrical equipmentMore than IRs. 500/- per every Square Meter exceedingOne Square Meter or part thereof

AccessionNature of BoardSquare MeterCharges RsNo.ExtentLess thanBetween 03An year03 monthsto 06months

BY-LAW ON PARKING OF THREE-WHEELERS

1. These By-law shall be enforced for the purpose of parking, regulating and controlling of Three-wheelers withinthe Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority (hereinafter referred to as "area") and for levying charges on parking.

2. This By-law shall be cited as the By-law on Parking of Three-wheelers.

3. Under this by Law :

(1) The Three-wheeler parks within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the Maximum Number of Three-wheelers to be parked at each park shall be decided on a resolution passed by the Council and suchdecisions shall come into operation from the date of publication of them in the Gazette or from a datespecified therein.

(2) If the Council is of the opinion that the Number of Parks and the Number of Three-wheelers to be parkedtherein, decided under Section (1) above shall be amended, it may be done by a resolution passed by theCouncil and such amendment shall be published in the Gazette.

SCHEDULE 02 (Contd.)

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

(3) The Council shall seek recommendations of the Committee consisting of the persons referred to in theSchedule One in order to decide places of the Three-wheeler parks and to decide its ranges and the maximumnumber of Three-wheelers that can be parked in each park or to amend such decisions.

(4) A board shall be fixed at each park in order to identify the three-wheeler parking places in terms of the Section(1) above and the code number of the relevant park shall be displayed in the board. The maximum number ofThree-wheelers that can be parked shall be displayed in the said board in terms of Section (2).

(5) The Three-wheelers shall be properly parked and the manner in which they are to be parked shall be markedby an authorized officer of the Council with a white or yellow line of 04 inches in width.

4. It shall be legal to issue a license arranged in compliance to this by-law by the Chairman for parking ofthree-wheelers and to impose charges and collect charges for such purpose through a resolution passed at the Council.

5. When issuing licenses for Three-wheelers for the purpose of parking in a Three-wheeler park, priority shall begiven to the Three-wheelers owned by the nearest residents.

6. For the purpose of parking a Three-wheeler in the Three-wheeler Park nearest to the permanent residence, alicense shall be applied from the Pradeshiya Sabha and it shall be lawful for the Council to decide from time to time about thecharges to be levied on issuance of such licence.

7. In case where the driver is the owner, the photo copies of the following documents of such person and in casewhere the driver is a hired person, photocopies of such documents of both hired driver and the owner shall be accompaniedwith the application. Such application shall be in the manner mentioned in the Schedule Two:-

(i) The National Identity Card and the Valid Driving License of the owner;

(ii) Certificate of Registration of the Three-wheeler;

(iii) The National Identity Card and the Valid License of the hired driver.

8. A register shall be maintained in respect of Three-wheelers which have been obtained licenses issued by theCouncil and when such license is cancelled, it should be recorded with red ink.

9. Under this by-law licenses may be issued monthly, quarterly or annually for the purpose of parking Three-wheelers.

10. A photocopy of the valid license issued under this by-law shall be displayed on the windscreen of the Three-wheeler to be clearly conspicuous to the outside.

11. The right side of the Three-wheeler shall be blocked to prevent the passengers from getting in or getting out.

12. The license under this by-law shall be issued in the name of the registered owner of the Three-wheeler.

13. The license holder shall apply for extension of the license two weeks before the expiry of such license.

14. Three-wheelers shall not be parked in or entered into a Three-wheeler park unless the three-wheeler possessesa valid license issued by the Chairman under this by-law.

15. Notwithstanding the possession of a valid license issued, a Police Officer or the Chairman or an Officer authorizedby Chairman may order temporary removal of three-wheelers from a Three-wheeler Park.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201534A

16. Other vehicle shall not be entered or parked in a park stated under this By-law.

17. Neither Three-wheeler nor any other vehicle shall be parked in the manner of blocking the entrance and the exitof the Three-wheeler Park.

18. No any other repairs shall be done in the Three-wheeler Park other than the minimal repairs ating to removal ofthe Three-wheeler from such park.

19. No Three-wheeler shall be parked in any other place awaiting hires other than the relevant parking place forwhich the license has been obtained.

20. (1). These By-laws with regard to Three-wheeler parking shall be enforced from 06:00 hours to 20:00 hours everyday of the week .

(2). Time indicated in Sub-section 20 (1) above may be amended by a resolution passed on the need of theCouncil and such amendment shall come into effect after publishing a notification in the Gazette.

21. At the time licensed Three-wheelers have been parked in a Three-wheeler park, the drivers shall not call and allowoutsiders to come into the park and loiter in the park.

22. No person shall use drugs or conduct immorality or commit any oppressive act in a Three-wheeler park and it isa responsibility of the persons authorized to use the park, not to allow any person to commit such acts.

23. If there are any complaints from public regarding any misbehaving at Three-wheeler parks by any person whopossesses a license, the Council reserves the authority to inquire into those complaints and to cancel his license if foundguilty for the charges.

24. The driver or the owner of the Three-wheeler shall produce the original copy of the valid license on demand bythe Chairman, or an Officer authorized by him for this purpose, or a Police Officer.

25. (1). Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for suchoffence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention iscontinued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorizedofficer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of suchcontinued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penaltyand maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya SabhaAct No. 15 of 1987.

(2). In the event where convicted by a court of proper jurisdiction as per Sub-section (1) above, the Chairmanshall annul the license in addition to the penalty imposed.

26. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this By-law ;

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"An Officer Authorized for the purpose by Chairman" means, any Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha who has beenauhorized by the Chairman ;

"Area of authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established ;

"Three-wheeler" means, a Three-wheeler parked for hiring ;

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

"Hired Driver" means, a person who drives the Three-wheeler either the owner or any other person employed fordriving by the owner of the Three-wheeler ;

"Parking Place" means, Three-wheeler Park determined on a resolution passed by the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Specific Parking Place" means, a specific parking place for which a License has been issued by the Chairman of thePradeshiya Sabha ;

"Monthly" means, each month starting from the 1 st consisting 28, 30 or 31 days as applicable ;

"Quarterly" means successive three months starting from 1 st of January up to 31 st of December consisting of thenumber of days as defined in "Monthly" ;

"Annually" means, a calendar year starting from 1 st of January and ending on 31 st of December ;

"Police Officer" means, the same interpretation as defined under Section 104 in chapter 53 of the Police OrdinanceNo. 16 of 1865 ;

"Registered Owner" means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance ;

"Act of Nuisance" means, the same interpretation as defined in the Nuisance Ordinance.

SCHEDULE ONE

The Road Committee to be appointed shall consist of the members mentioned below :

1. The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the Secretary shall bethe Revenue Inspector of the Council ;

2. The Secretary and the Technical Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

3. The Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;

4. The Chairman of the Provincial Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;

5. The Chairman of the Road Passenger Transport Authority or a representative nominated by him ;

6. The Chairman of the Sri Lanka Transport Board or a representative nominated by him ;

7. The Officer in Charge of the Traffic in the Police Stations coming under the jurisdiction of the Councilor arepresentative from each station nominated by them ;

8. A representative from each Three-wheeler Drivers' Union within the jurisdiction of the Council.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201536A

SCHEDULE TWO

Licence for Three-Wheeler Parking

1. Application

(i) Name of Applicant : ————.(ii) Permanent Address : ————.(iii) Rates No. : ————.(iv) Local Authority relating to Permanent Address Province is the appointing : ————.(v) National Identity Card No. : ————.

2.(i) Registration No. of the Three-wheeler : ————.(ii) State whether the driver is the owner or the hired dricer : ————.

(1) If the driver is the owner, valid driving Licence No. : ————.

(2) If he is a hired driver : ————.

Permanent Address : ————.N.I.D. No. : ————.Valid Driving Licence No. : ————.

3. Three-wheeler park for which the licence is applied.

4. Duration of the licence applied for a month/three months/a year.

I, declare that the above particulars furnished me are correct and I am aware that my licence for three-wheeler parkis liable to be cancelled without prior notice in case such particulars are found to be false and I agree to comply with theprovisions stipulated in the By-laws relating to the parking of three-wheelers imposed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

....................................................Signature of Applicant.

Date : .......................................

I approve the grant of licence to Mr./Mrs. .................................for parking the Three-wheeler No. ..........................at................................. Three-wheeler park for a period of ............................... .

....................................................Chairman,..................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

Date : ...................................................

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

BY-LAW RELATING TO CHARGES LEVIED ON SERVICES

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize services provided by Pradeshiya Sabha and charges levied on suchservices.

2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Charges Levied on Services Supplied by Pradeshiya Sabha.

3. The following shall include under services related to this by-law.

(I)Issuance of application forms it includes the following ;(i) Applications for enrollment to pre-schools conducted by the Council ;

(ii) Applications for library membership for libraries conducted by the Council ;

(iii) Applications to request for citations from rates document ;

(iv) Application for supplier registration ;

(v) Application to obtain a certificate on Street Lines ;

(vi) Application to obtain a certificate on non-transfer ;

(vii) applications to obtain the service of machines belonging to the Council.

(2) Issuance of certificates. It includes the following :

(i) Certificate on Stree Lines ;

(ii) Certificate on non-transfer ;

(iii) Certificate on rights related to rates documents ;

(iv) Certificates confirming citations from rates documents ;

(v) Certificates confirming evaluation announcements issued.

4. Charges levied on each service described under Section 3 of this by-law shall be decided from time to time througha resolution passed at the Council.

5. (l). Under every application form stated under Sub-section (l) of Section 3 above or along with each suchapplication, a set of instructions to ensure correct filling of application should be included.

(2). For every such application issued, unless the charges set out in Section 04 of this by-law had been paid andthe relevant receipt had been produced, no application form shall be issued.

6. (l). Every person described under Section 3(2) of this by-law shall, after fulfilling the requirements specificallystated under the relevant application form, forward the relevant application form to the Chairman or anofficer specifically authorized by Chairman to the said task.

(2). No application partially completed or unable to satisfy the requirements stated in the application form shall beaccepted and where an accepted application relates to a service stated under Sub-section (2) of aboveSection 03, the Chairman or the officer specifically authorized by him shall be responsible for the dispatch ofdetails pertaining to accomplishment of the relevant service within 3 day of accepting the application.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201538A

7. Where a duly filled application is accepted by the Chairman or an officer specifically authorized by him, chargesspecified in Section 04 of this by-law shall be levied for such application and every application forwarded thus shall bedocumented.

8. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a Court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

9. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this By-law :

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sahba ;

"Authorized Officer" means a person functioning under a specific duty assignment of the Council for the purposesof this by-law.

BY LAW RELATING TO PLAYGROUNDS

1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, control and supervise public playgrounds located in PradeshiyaSabha area of authority.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the "By-law Relating to Playgrounds of Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority" .

3. (1) Any person intending to obtain a permit to use a playground belonging to Pradeshiya Sabha shall forwardan application prepared according to the format stated in the First Schedule of this by-law.

(2) Charges levied on an application shall be a fee decided from time to time by a resolution adopted at theSabha.

4. Unless the following stated conditions have been satisfied by a person submitting an application as stated in by-law 3 to use a playground belonging to Pradeshiya Sabha, the Chairman shall not issue a permit.

(l) Every application received by the Pradeshiya Sabha Office requesting to use playgrounds shall ~e consideredin the order of reception of those applications by the Pradeshiya Sabha. However, among the applicationsreceived to use a playgr~und, priority shall be given to appli~ations relating to certain sport or matterconnected to a sport.

(2) The permit shall only be issued after payment of playground reservation fee and deposit fee in the mannerdecided and published by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

5. An application to reserve a playground for use shall be submitted at least three days before the said reservationdate. The request made by whosoever a person shall be submitted three days prior to the expected reservation date, duringoffice hours.

6. Where an applicant needs to cancel a reservation of a playground reserved as per provisions of this by-law, theChairman may consent to cancellation subjected to the following conditions.

(1) In the event where the request for cancellation is submitted prior to -

(i) three months of the reservation date, 5 percent from the fee paid;

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

(ii) two months ofthe reservation date, 10 percent from the fee paid;

(iii) one month of the reservation date, 15 percent from the fee paid;

(iv) fifteen days of the reservation date, 25 percent from the fee paid;

(v) seven days of the reservation date, 50percent from the fee paid;

(vi) three days of the reservation date, (75%) percent from the fee paid;

shall be retained under the Pradeshiya Sabha Fund.

(2) Where the cancellation request is made prior to a period less than 3 days of the reservation date, the fee paidshall not be paid back.

(3) In the event of reservation. being cancelled, the applicant has the right to completely recover thedeposit amount paid while making the said reservation.

7. A playground reserved by a person shall not be used for any other puspose other than the reserved puspose.

8. A permit issued in the event of reserving a playground shall not be transferred do other person on any grounds.

9.Where a consideration is not given for a request made by a person for reservation of a playground, the Chairman'sduty shall be to inform the said applicant in writing on the same day the request was made, while mentioning the reasons forsuch rejection.

10. In the event of where a playground reserved for certain purpose needs to be changed of date of such reservation,the applicant may make a request in writing to the Chairman to that effect. An alteration as per such request shall comply withregulations stipulated in By-laws 4 and 5.

11. In any occasion wherea a playground is not reserved for any purpose as per provisions stated in this By-law, itshell be the duty of the Chairman to allow such playground to be utilized for playing or spors training activities.

12. After using a playground for the particular purpose for which is was allocated, from the amount deposited at thePradeshiya Sabha, subsequent to deducting -

(i) the value of loss caused to playground or part therein, if there is any such ;

(ii) the amount payable for the duration of time extended that the prescribed period of reservation of theplayground.

any balance amount remaining shall be paid back to the applicant.

13. No person shall damage or cause to damage any playground functioning under the Pradeshiya Sabha and cattle,swine, horses, ponies or dogs shall not be entered into the playground. Furthermore, without persmission obtained from theChariman, no vehicle shall be entered into a playground.

14. Where a playground reserved under this by law is required for an urgent purpose of the Pradeshiya Sabha on thesame day of such reservation, the Chairman shall have authority to cancel the reservation. However, is such cancellaton iscarried out, it should be informed to the applicant 03 days prior to the date of reservation wherein the total amount anddeposit paid by him shall be paid back to him. However, any such cancellation shall not be carried out within less than 3 daysprior to such reservation.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201540A

15. Contravention of any provisions of this By-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-secion (2) of Section 126 ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.16. In this part, unless the context otherwise require -

"Sabha" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sahba;

"Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established ;

"Playground" means a ground allocated by Pradeshiya Sabha for playing and includes any parapet wall or fencebuilt around the playground, a building or part of building constructed within such playground and any fixings and equipmentthereof.

"Sports" means the same meaning as interpreted in Sports Act, No. 25 of 1973.

SCHEDULE I

Application for Obtaining Permission to use ......................... Playground of ...................................... Pradeshiya Sabha

01. Name of the Applicant : ————— .

Address : ————— .

National Identity Card No. : ————— .

02. Purpose the playground requested for : ————— .

03. Date and time of reservation : ————— .

Date : from .......................... to .............................

Time .........................................

I certify that all the above-mentioned information is ture and accurate. I hereby agree to allow the Pradeshiya Sabhato recover any damage caused to buildings, constructions, equipment and fixings of the said playground from the depositamount in the event where the said playground is reserved as per this request and where the said deposit amount is notsufficient for recovery of the said loss, to pay any amount required in balance to Pradeshiya Sabha. I also agree to complywith the provisions of By-laws relating to regularization, control and supervision of playgrounds.

......................................,Signature of Applicant.Dare : ..............................

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

BY LAWS RELATING TO SALE OF MEAT

1. This by-law shall be enforced to inspect sale of meat and regularize, supervise and control meat selling placeswithin the Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority and to levying charges on such business.

2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Sale of Meat within the Pradeshiya Sabha Area ofAuthority.

3. No person shall without obtaining a valid license issued under provisions of this by law by the Chairman ofPradeshiya Sabha, use any premises within Pradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority for the purpose of selling meat.

4. Provided that the sales premises applied for obtaining a licence under this by law is in conformity with theconditions set out below, the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any person to carry on a meat sales centre.

(1) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied withrust proof metal sheets.

(2) The floor of the premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished offwith cement or laid with tiles.

(3) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate theflow of waste water.

(4) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drainsreferred to in Sub-section (3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain off suchwaste water to a suction pit.

(5) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.

(6) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat market shall be made available,action shall be taken at the end of the day's sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5 meters deep inthe ground or dispose in accordance with provisions decided upon by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time totime.

(7) While water-sealed lavatory facilities sufficient for the use of the persons working in the premises shall bemade available, suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of after the use of the lavatory shallbe supplied.

SCHEDULE II

Fee chart for Levying charges on playground-use

Name of PlaygroundFeeDeposit AmountAdditional Fee per HourRs. cents.Rs. cents.Rs. cents.01.02.03.04.05.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201542A

(8) A name board in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages denoting license holder's name, address, licenseNo.and the place to be a Meat Selling Stall shall be fixed in his place of trade by the license holder.

5. Provided that the meat is of an animal slaughtered at a slaughter house formally licensed under the provisions ofthe Butchers Ordinance, no person shall sell or exhibit for sale meat at any meat stall.

6. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash and clean withdisinfectant fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat, other utensils and the placesexhibiting meat for sale.

7. Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drains in and around anylicensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or sale of meat.

8. Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meat stall are stored in a deepfreezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the opening of the stall for saleson the following day no species of meat left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale or kept in the deep freezer or atthe licensed stall on the following day.

9. When the Authorized officer has gazetted a proclamation under the provisions of the Butchers Ordinanceprohibiting the slaughter of animals in any slaughter house for food during a certain day or over a period of time no meat stallshall keep meat for sale or exhibit meat for sale or store meat at any meat stall.

10. Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats, insects or any other animal.

11. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no other goods or clothes ormats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.

12. Action shall be taken to keep drinking water in sufficient quantities for the use of employees serving in thelicensed premises.

13. (1) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has notelapsed no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or hadbeen recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ anybodyor let anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an assistant of any person engaged in sale at any meatstall.

(2) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employanybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.

(3) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the meat stall to a medical test at leastonce a year.

14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety materials necessary to theemployees and to ensure that they are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the meat stall.

15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employed at thelicensed premises.

16. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat kept for saleor displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any meat stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

17. (1) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken tocategorize the waste material under the categories. -

(i) bio degradable waste ;

(ii) glass ;

(iii) paper or paper based materials ;

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics ;

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or other partsproduced in the production line ;

(vii) dangerous waste.

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for thatpurpose.

(2) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in Sub-section (1) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the PradeshiyaSabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.

18. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions ofthe by-laws in this part by the Chairman or by anAuthorized Officer shall mean any occasion meat sales are done at the meat-stall.

19. In the event of the premises where sale of meat is carried on under a licence issued under the by-laws of this partfails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in Section 04 or contravenes the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him toaccomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

20. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 19 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice beforethe date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing, the Chairman shall havethe power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such extension shall not exceed more thanfourteen days.

21. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 20 fails to act in accordance with the manner setout in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel thelicence issued to that premises.

22. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201544A

23. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this By-law :

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chiarman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Pradeshiya Sabha area of authority" means the area in which the Pradeshiya Sabha has been established.

BY-LAWS RELATING TO FUNERAL SERVICE SUPPLY CENTRES

1. This by-law will be enforced to regularize, supervise and control funeral services supply centers within thePradeshiya Sabha Area of Authority.

2. This By-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Funeral Service Supply Centers.

3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairnan of Pradeshiya Sabha for the particular function has beenobtained no person shall maintain funeral service centre within the Pradeshiya Sabha area of Authority.

4. Every licence issued under Section 03 of this by-law, unless it is cancelled earlier by the Chairman, shall be validup to 31 st December of the year for which it had been issued.

5. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part are fulfilled, the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha shallnot issue a licence to a funeral service centre.

(1) While there shall be a separate room for preparing dead bodies in the building where a funeral service centreis maintained and the room shall have at least space not below nine square meters to prepare one dead body.Moreover, a concrete slab sufficient for use in this task shall be made available.

(2) While the room where the dead bodies are prepared shall always be located separate from the exposition hallof the Funeral Service Centre, action shall be taken to prevent outsiders entering without permission.

(3) Windows allowing fresh air to the room where the dead bodies are prepared shall have been set up to anextent not less than one seventh of the area of the room.

(4) While sufficient receptacles to temporarily dump parts of the dead bodies removed in the process ofpreparing them shall be made available, non-opaque receptacles that could be securely closed so as toprevent entry of flies, rats or other animals shall also be provided to collect blood flowing out of the deadbody while it is being prepared or other fluids or waste water generated in the event of the body beingwashed and due to whatever reason those waste shall never be allowed to flow into a public drain, publiccanal or external lands.

(5) When arrangements are being made to keep dead bodies at the licensed premises for public homage, actionshall be taken to provide a sufficient number of chairs for the convenience of the people who come to paylast respects to the dead body and to allocate parking facilities for the vehicles of such guests.

(6) When displaying the coffins and wreaths intended for sale, the room or hall where such display is maintainedshall be covered in black glass not transparent to the outside.

6. Any person requesting a license under the provisions of the By-laws in this part shall forward to the Chainnan ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha an application substantially prepared according to the specimen given in Schedule I to this part.

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.2015

07. If there is no order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths in respect of a dead body,/ the parts of the body removed in the process of preparing, it shall be securely interred in a pit 1.2 Meters deep fromthe ground level before the elapse of six hours after the completion of preparatory activities.

8. If there is an order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths in respect of the parts of a dead bodyremoved in the process of preparing it, it shall be the duty of the licensee to act according to the order.

9. When there is no sufficient space at the funeral service centre to carry out the activities mentioned in Section 7,action shall be taken to securely inter the body parts at the depth prescribed in that by-law at the public cemetery of thePradeshiya Sabha on payment of a fee to be decided by the Council from time to time.

10. The room where the dead bodies are prepared shall be maintained cleanly always having applied disinfectants.

11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply security clothes, face masks and gloves in the manner prescribed bythe Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha to all the employees serving in the rooms where dead bodies are prepared and to ensurethat these employees wear those clothes and other apparatus when preparing dead bodies.

12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all the employees being employed at the licensed premises to a medicalexamination at least once a year.

13. The interior of the vehicle or vehicles transporting dead bodies shaIl be cleaned with vacuum cleaners anddisinfected at least once per day.

14. Polythene or any other non-decaying material shall not be used to cover the inside of a coffin or the entire deadbody or a part of the dead body unless the dead bodies are in such a condition as to make it impossible to prepare due toexcessive injuries caused or due to any other reasons.

15. Unless there is written permission granted to the licensee by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha under theconditions prescribed by him, no person shaIl bring or aIlow anybody else to bring a dead body of a person presumed tohave died due to cholera, plague, smallpox, yeIlow fever or AIDS to the licensed center.

16. No dead body shall be accepted by the licensee for preparing the body and organizing funeral arrangements,unless a formal death certificate issued by the Registrar of Deaths on the particular death has been forwarded to him.

17. When the death is a sudden death or when the death is suspicious, any order given with regard to the final ritesof the said corpse through a report issued subsequent to completion of an inquiry made by a Magistrate or an Inquirer intoSudden Deaths, the licensee shall carry out the provisions stated in that order.

18. Where there is any order given through a report made by a Magistrate or Inquirer into Sudden Deaths withregard to final rites of the said corpse, the licensee shall carry out the provisions of that order.

19. It shall he the duty of the licensee to maintain cleanly and hygienically the place where a dead body is kept forpublic homage.

20. Nobody shall perform any activity within the premises of the funeral services centre that would cause harm orinconvenience to residents living close to the funeral service centre, or allow such things to happen.

21. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offenceby a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even further andbeing convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written notice drawing attentionto such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penaltyimposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 126of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.12.201546A

22. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -

"Council" means the Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Authorized Officer" means the officer authorized by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha ;

"Funeral Service Supply Centre" means a centre where a dead body is prepared so as to preserve it for sometime orwhere a dead body is prepared for last rites or place where a dead body is kept for public homage under a fee untilit is taken to the cemetery for last rites ;

"Preparing of dead bodies" means preparing a dead body of a person by preserving it temporarily so as to pay lastrespects, dressing a dead body, placing the body in a coffin and doing any other thing in this regard. ;

"Parts of the dead body" means any limb removed from the body of a dead person, or part of a limb or internal organor blood flowing out of the body or any other fluid or any dress or dresses worn by the person at the time of deathor any part of such dress or bandages, gauze or any other thing found in an irtiured part of the body.

SCHEDULE "A"

Application for A Lincence to maintain a Funeral Service Supply Center

01. Full Name of the Applicant : ————.

02. Permanent Address of Applicant : ————.

03. Temporary Address of Applicant : ————.

04. Applicant's National Identity Card No. : ————.

05. Applicant's telephone No. : ————.

06. Area of authority applied for : ————.

07. Area of authority applicant resides in : ————.

08. License period required : ————.

09. Registered numbers of vehicles carrying out funeral services : ————.

I hereby agree to maintain the Funeral Service Center according to the regulations accepted by the PradeshiyaSabha and I am well aware that contravention of the relevant By-law or any section therein to by a punishable offence.

................................................,Signature of Applicant.

Date : ...............................

01 - 488

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.