==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1965$39 - 2016 uehs ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'05'06

No. 1965/39 - FRIDAY MAY 06, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

PILGRIMAGES ORDINANCE

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Home Affairs in terms of Section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance (Chapter 175)

WAJIRA ABEWARDHANA,Minister of Home Affairs.

Ministry of Home Affairs,Independence Square,Colombo 07,29th April 2016,

Regulations

1.These regulations may be cited as the regulation of Sri Devol Maha Devala Esala Perahera in the Seenigama -West Grama Niladhari division No. 64-A of the Hikkaduwa Divisional Secretariat in Galle District.

2.In these regulations

“Camp area” means the area described in the schedule.“District Secretary/ Government Agent” means the Government Agent of Galle administrative district and it also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4.“Medical Officer” means the Health Medical officer in charge of the camp area.“Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area.“Public Health Inspector” means the Public Health Inspector in charge of the camp area.

3.These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of the festival of Sri Devol Maha Devala EsalaPerahera in the administrative District of Galle.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.20162A

4.The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writing toexercise any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.

5.I.The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walkingto or from or within the camp area.

II.No person shall act country to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with theinstructions issued to such police officer by the District Secretary/ Government Agent for the exerciseof powers vested in him under the Para (1) of this regulation.

6.No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of theDistrict Secretary/ Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where cartsare brought and cattle are driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, underregulation 7

7.(1)The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to reserve orProvide the following places inside the camp area.

a.Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.b.Places for leaving carts and cattlec.Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrimsd.Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sicke.Places for begging and solicitation for charityf.Places for displaying certain items for saleg.Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposesh.Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathingi.Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other placesproviding such facilities.J.Places for other purpose the District Secretary/ Government Agent may deem necessary.

(2)If the District Secretary/ Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved orprovided for certain purpose under Para (1) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or nameboard stating the purpose for which the place is reserved.

(3)(1) In case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (l), that place shall strictlybe used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.

8.If the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to addchlorine to any tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed forprevention of diseases, the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power todo so.

9.(1)No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or makea new addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within thecamp area reserved or provided for certain purpose under regulation 7, except on a permit issued by theDistrict Secretary/ Government Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditionsstipulated in such permit.

(2)If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make anew addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequentto delivery of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.20163A

to order to remove or demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in thenotice as the case may be.

(3)Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act incompliance with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where adoubt arises as to who is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for theDistrict Secretary/ Government Agent to cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hutbuilding, construction or a new addition made to the existing building or construction as the case maybe. It is also lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to anyland or premises together with labourers, equipment.

10.No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved forthe use of pilgrims.

11.No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camparea.

12.No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container suppliedby the District Secretary/ Government Agent for this purpose.

13.(1)District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cookedmeals and beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.

(2)No one shall disobey any lawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a Public Health Inspectorin accordance with instructions given by District Secretary/ Government Agent in the exercise of powersdelegated to him under Para (I) of this regulation.

14.(1)Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within thecamp area is found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District Secretary/Government Agent or the medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such foodor drink is not suitable for human consumption.

(2)No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable forhuman consumption under the Para (1) of this regulation

(3)It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distributionand destroy any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (1) of the regulation.

15.No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in anyplace in the camp area including reserved or provided of any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they aremaintained on a license issued by the District Secretary/ Government Agent and in accordance with theconditions stipulated there in. Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medicalofficer or any officer authorized by such medical officer.

16.All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where Sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture andequipment in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.

17.All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or distribution in the camp area shall be keptin show case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical Officer or thePublic Health Inspector.

18.No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leaving of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shallbe left at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.20164A

provided in regulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any placewithin the camp area or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery,sweet stall, place where sweets are made or eating house or ‘Dansal’ the license holder of such place shall bedeemed to have violated provisions in this regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holderproves that all necessary precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent thecommission of such offence.

19.All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions usedfor commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage container witha capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal orplastic lid unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.

20.(1)If the District Secretary/Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place wheresweets are made, eating house, Danasal or business place has been established or maintained in violationof regulations 16, 17, 18 or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery,sweet stall, place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or business place situated within thecamp area or cancel any license with immediate effect if any license has been issued for such place.

(2)Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eatinghouse or Dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the DistrictSecretary/ Government Agent under chapter (1) of this section.

21.No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.

22.(1)It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to order the pilgrims to leave the camparea and for the District Secretary/Government Agent to determine the route of leaving and mode oftransport to be used for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.

(2)No person shall act against any legal order given by the District Secretary/ Government Agent underPara (1) of this section.

23.Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when aperson is knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease,every such person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officerimmediately.

24.Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within thecamp area shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagiousdisease to enter such bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in thedistribution, sale or manufacture of any material or food or drink.

25.A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owneror chief occupant of any lodge or pilgrims’ rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectiousdiseases or contagious disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made,eating house, Dansal lodge or pilgrims’ rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that is person suffering fromany infectious diseases or contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chiefoccupant shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public health officer or any Police Officer immediately.

26.No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the camparea except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.

27.No person shall light fireworks or use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission fromthe District Secretary/Government Agent.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.20165A

28.No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or10.

29.It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Governnent Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or anyPolice Officer to,

(a)Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from amongthese regulations and,

(b)To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying anotice or a name board under regulation 7.

30.It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if heconsiders that the cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.

(a)Any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.

(b)Permit issued under regulation 9.

(c)Any license issued under regulation 15.

SCHEDULE

The plot land, in which Sri Devol Maha Devala situated, contained 1/4 Acres of land bounded by the sea, is in the Seenigama- West Grama Niladhari Division No. 64-A of the Hikkaduwa Divisional Secretariat in Galle District. The pancha MahaDevala and other affiliated land approximately contained 3 Acres and the boundaries of aforesaid land are as follows.

The boundaries of the land are as follows :

North-The Heli Gedara Watta belonged to Deva Ranathilaka and the other including Deva Wijesena, Deva Layanal,Dadimuni Richard Mendis and Deva Ranathilaka ;South-The Stream near to the Seenigama Devalaya. (Seenigama stream) ;East-The Galle - Colombo Main Road ;West-Indian Ocean.

05 - 695

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.