==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

wxl 2097$2 – 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 12 jeks i÷od – 2018'11'12No. 2097/2 – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2018

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG4309 – 12 (11/2018)

PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF CENTRAL PROVINCE

Enactment bearing No. 3 of 2016 of the Department of Cultural Affairs ofProvincial Council in Central Province

It is hereby published for the information of all the above enactment approved by Hon. Governor on 06.10.2018 and resolvedon 02.08.2017 by Central Province Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

SARATH EKANAYAKE,Chief Minister of Central Provincial Council andMinister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,Local Government, Manpower, Education and Cultural Affairs,Tourism, Land, Co-operative Development, Commerce andTrade, Food Supply and Distribution Affairs andInvestment Co-ordianation.

Chief Minister’s Office,Central Provincial Council,Kandy.08th October, 2018.

2AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018

ENACTMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS BEARING NO. 3 OF 2016 OFPROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF CENTRAL PROVINCE

Chief Ministry and Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Local Government, Manpower, Education andCultural Affairs, Tourism, Land, Co-operative Development, Trade and Commerce, Food Supply andDistribution Affairs and Investment Co-ordianation and Ministry related with subjects which are not fallenunder other ministries.

Draft EnactmentNo. 03 of 2016 of the Central Provincial Councilto Establish a Department of Cultural Affairs

An enactment to establish a Department for Cultural Affairs for the Central Province, to regulate art activitiesincluding theatres, plays, provincial literary activities, music and entertainment activities except the approvalof cinema movies for exhibition and public performance, and to carryout researches and investigations onancient and historical monuments and records, their conservation and maintenance and to maintain, regulateand enact necessary rules and regulations for the museums and other similar institutions governed andfunded by the Central Provincial Council, and to make rules and regulations on related and consequentialmatters.

The Provincial Council of the Central Province of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankahereby enacts the following

This enactment is called as the enactment of Cultural Affairs No. 03 of 2016 of the Central Provincial Counciland shall become into effect from the date on which the Hon. Governor’s approval is granted.

Part I

Establishment of the Department of CulturalAffairs of the Central Province Provincial Council

1A Department for Cultural Affairs of the Central Province (herein after referred to as the department)shall be established in order to carry out the objectives of this enactment.

2. (1)A Provincial Director shall be appointed to the department in order to execute the duties andpowers of the department.

(2)The Provincial Director shall be appointed by the Governor and he shall be the Head of theDepartment.

3.Other officers and staff required to assist the Provincial Director to perform the duties and powersof the department, shall be appointed as per the provisions of the Provincial Council Act No. 42of 1987.

4.The powers and the duties of the Provincial Director can be trasferred to the officers who areappointed under the above 03rd paragraph.

5.It is the duty of this department to achieve the following objectives:

(1) To regulate and standardize the theaters, performances, cinema hall shows and entertainmentactivities within the province apart from the approval for cinema movies for exhibition andpublic performence.

Short Name andthe effectivedate.

Establishment ofthe Departmentof CulturalAffairs of theCentralProvincialCouncil.

Appointing ofthe Director ofCultural Affairs.

DepartmentStaff.

Appointingother officers forthe Department.

Transferringpower.

Objectives of theDepartment.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.20183A

(2) To preserve and maintain ancient and historic monuments and reports except on those thatare declared as to have national importance, by or under a parliamentary act.

(3) To maintain and preserve the museums and similar institutions governed by the ProvincialCouncil.

(4) To regulate the literary, religious and other non institutional societies and organizationswhich function within the province and activites related to art associations.

(5) To improve the creative skills of the artists in the fields of arts and literature within theprovince and welfare activities of artists.

(6) To conduct researches and investigations regarding cultural and arts related affairs, artistsand related fields to conserve the visible and invisible cultural heritages of the centralprovince and to publich and preserve the information with regard to them.

(7) To promote religious, cultural, literary, arts, moral and spiritual values in the central province.

6.The Duties and the Powers of the Department shall be as follows:

(1) To form cultural groups in the province, to recruit artists, to pay them allowances and to getthe artists involved in arts programs and performances.

(2) To form, register, manage, monitor, audit and dissolve cultural groups.

(3) To register and monitor the arts associations.

(4) To establish, maintain and govern museums and other similar institutions funded by theprovincial council.

(5) To maintain the hygienc conditions of the theaters and the cinema halls which are located inthe central province and to inspect whether they suit for people and set standards formatters with regard to them and conduct examinations.

(6) To plan, implement, assess and assist to cultural programs within the province.

(7) To establish and improve cultural committees and arts associations and take necessaryactions for their development.

(8) To obtain the required assistance and support of the government, provincial councils,localgovernment institutions, other legal entities to perform the duties of the department andmaintain relationships with non governmental organizations.

(9) To plan, implement, maintain and facilitate the programs for the welfare of artists.

(10) To establish cultural villages in the province and plan programs to preserve the traditionalknowledge for future generations.

(11) To audit the financial and accounting reports submitted by the arts associations, regionalcultural committees and provincial cultural authority and take legal actions with regard tofinancial irregularities.

Duties andpowers of theDepartment.

4AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018

(12) (a) To name the selected and identified sacred item, clothes, jewellery and artifacts of theprovince as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved’’.

(b) To assist to set standards to produce, sell and distribute the selected sacred item,clothes, jewellery and artifacts which are named as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritageswhich shall be conserved’’.

(13) (a) To enter

(b) To inspect and examine

(c) To Request to produce a license, pass, report, certificate or any other document

(d) To examine such license, pass, reports, certificate or any other document

(e) To take photo copies or extracts of necessary documents and information

(f)To inquire and investigate from the officers in charge or any other necessary persons.

(14) To fulfill the requiements which are thought to be needed to perform the mission of the thisDepartment such as the duties of the government, provincial councils, local governmentinstitutions and departmental activities and to obtain the support of local, foreign and otherlegal entities and to maintain a coordination with non-governmental organizations.

(15) To obtain the assistance of the police when required while performing the duties of thedepartment.

Part II

Forming the Central Provincial Cultural Committee

7. (1)Cultural groups can be formed for the fields of traditional dancing, singing and music of theprovince in order to promote and safeguard the provincial aesthetic arts and to improve theeconomical standard of the artists. These groups shall operate under the supervision of theprovincial director.

(2)The provincial Director can make necessary provisions with the approval of the secretary to theministry regarding the recruitment of artists and advisors to cultural groups, deciding theirqualifications, disciplinary controls, supervision, payment of allowances and their removal.

(3)The cultural director has the power to guide the cultural groups towards the activities which arenecessary to achieve the objectives of the department.

Part III

Forming Regional Cultural Committees and Provincial Cultural Authority

8. (1)Regional cultural committees which will be referred herein after as ''committee'' shall be formed ineach Divisional Secretariat Division.

(a) The Artists, teachers and interested persons in arts related activities from the division canobtain the membership of this regional cultural committee.

(b) A chairman, a secretary and a treasurer shall be selected from the members at a GeneralMeeting of the committee.

Forming thecultural group.

Forming culturalcommittees.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.20185A

(c) The Divisional Secretary of the relevant division will be the patron of the committee by virtueof his post and the Cultural Officer shall act as the coordinator of the committee.

(2)The Tenure of the committee is one year.

9. (1)Every committee shall have a constitution with particulars regarding the composition of thecommittee, its accounts, and other provisions necessary for the maintenance of the committee.The general provisions to be included in the constitution can be imposed from time to time by theMinister by regulations with the recommendation of the Provincial Director.

(2)The committees have the right to prepare their constitutions as per to their requirements and notcontradict to the above mentioned general provisions.

10.Powers of the Regional Cultural Committees are as follows:

(1)To prepare plans and implement them to promote religious, cultural, moral and spiritual valueswhich ensures the conservation of the visible and invisible heritages of the relevant divisionalsecretariat division.

(2)To assist to implement the duties of the Provincial Cultural Department in regional level.

(3)To take actions to implement a program for the equal distribution of opportunities of welfareprograms and other different opportunities submitted from time to time by the Central ProvincialCouncil or by the Cultural Department of Central province for the benefit of the artists who residewithin the functional area of the committee.

(4)To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in rural areas, to contribute to upgradethe standards of rural artists and take actions to create a copetitive background to assess theircreations in government level.

(5)To build a platfrom for the opinions, proposals, ideas and contributions of artists representingvarious fields and implement programs to ensure their identity.

(6)To implement a mechanism to perform innovative cultural and arts programs in rural and regionallevels.

(7)To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of the committee’s territory to thenational and international levels and to create opportunities for the artists from the committee’sterritory to exchange the knowledge of different countries.

(8)To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations.

(9)To implement a sustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of the artistsresiding in the committee’s territory.

(10)To implement programs to eradicate the socio environmental barriers to create a moral and diciplinedsociety.

(11)To submit recommendations forwards to regional artists in the Central Province.

Generalregulations whichshall be includedto theconstitution ofthe culturalcommittees.

Powers of theregional cultualcommittees

6AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018

(12)To organize regional arts festivals.

(13)To organize various programs through this committee to develop the arts academies in the region.

(14)To intervene in the welfare of the artists residing in the committee’s territory.

(15)To provide financial sponsorships for arts, cultural, historic and religious affairs of the region.

(16)To obtain the assistance required to the cultural events organized by the committee from thegovernment, provincial council, local government institutions, non governmental organizationsand other legal entities.

(17)To bear the expenses for the programs, exhibitions, concerts and sales of the committee members,reimburse that amount and obtain a pre decided protion of such income as revenue.

(18)To engage in the coordination activities of programs aimed at preserving the visible culturalheritages of the committee’s territory.

(19)To collect funds to maintain committee’s account.

11.Every Regional Cultural Committees shall maintain and account as per to the provisions providedin the constitution of that committee.

12.A provincial cultural authority (hereinafter referred to as the authority) shall be established forthe province.

(1)One selected member from the office bearer of each regional cultural committee, such as chairman,secretary or treasurer, can obtain the membership of the provincial cultural authority.

(2)A chairman, a secretary and a treasurer shall be selected at a general meeting from the members ofthe provincial cultural authority.

(3)Provincial Director shall hold the post of patron of the provincial cultural authority and a culturalofficer shall act as the coordinator of the committee.

(4)The tenure of authority is one year.

13.Powers of the provincial cultural authority shall be as follows:

(1)To monitor the procedures undertaken by the regional cultural committees to preserve the invisibleheritages of the province.

(2)To intervene to develop the religious places situated in the province and monitor the developmentactivities carried out in regional level.

(3)To form and monitor a program for the equal distribution of opportunities of welfare programs andother different opportunities submitted by the Central Provincial Council or by the CulturalDepartment of Central Province from time to time for the benefit of the artists who reside in centralprovince.

(4)To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in the province, to contribute toupgrade the standards of artists and take actions to create a competitive background to assessthose creations.

Accounts of theRegional CulturalCommittee.

Establishment ofProvincialCulturalAuthority.

Powers ofProvincialCulturalAuthority.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.20187A

(5)To build a platform for the opinions, proposals, ideas and contributions of artists representingeach and every field and implement programs to ensure their identity.

(6)To create a mechanism to perform innovative cultural and arts programs in rural and centralprovincial levels.

(7)To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of central province to the nationaland international levels and to create opportunities for the artists fom central province to exchangethe knowledge of different countries.

(8)To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations and form asustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of the artists.

(9)To enhance the quality of various art creations conducted in rural level, to contribute to upgrdethe standards, of rural artists and take actions to create a competitive background to assess theircreation in government level.

(10)To create opportunities to spread the culture and arts creations of the territory of cetral provinceto the national and international levels and to create opportunities for the artists from the territoryof central province to exchange the knowledge of different countries.

(11)To extend a helping hand to the ordinary level artists to publish their creations.

(12)To implement a sustainable program to strengthen the socio-economic conditions of the artistswho live in the territory of central province.

(13)To implement programs to eradicate the socio environmental barriers to create a moral anddisciplined society.

(14)To organize various programs in view of developing the artis academies in the territory of theauthority.

(15)To intervene in the welfare of the artists residing in the authority’s territory.

(16)To provide financial sponsorships for arts, cultural, historic and religious programs within theauthority’s territory.

(17)To obtain the assistance required to the cultural events organized by the authority from thegovernment, provincial council, local government institutions, non-governmental organizationsand other legal entities.

(18)To bear the expenses for the programs, exhibitions, concerts and sales of the members of theauthority, reimburse that amount and obtain a pre decided portion of such income as revenue.

(19)To intervene in the coordination activities of programs aimed at preserving the visible culturalheritages of the authority's territory.

(20)To collect funds through various programs for the fund (the fund and the account) created for thewelfare of all artists.

8AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018

14. (1)The provincial authority shall have a constitution with particulars regarding the composition ofthe authority, its accounts and other provisions necessary for the maintenance of the authority.The general provisions to be included in the constitution shall be imposed from time to time bythe secretary with the recommendation of the Provincial Director.

(2)The authority has the right to prepare its constitution as per to the requirements and not contradictto the above mentioned general provisions.

15.The Provincial authority shall maintain an account as per the provisions of its constitution.

16.The authority and all regional committees shall register them under the provincial director.

17.Provisions needed for the registration mentioned in clause 16, shall be imposed by the minister incharge of the subject by regulations.

Part IV

Establishment of the Central Provincial Cultural Account

18.A separate account shall be maintained for cultural affairs under the central provincial councilfund. The funds of this account can be used for the purposes of the welfare of the artists, topreserve folklore and folk arts, moral and spiritual development and to preserve the traditionalheritages.

19.Credit of the account are as follows:

(1)Provisions allocated by the provincial council.

(2)All local and foreign donations and financial assistances made to the department.

(3)All charges levied under this enactment.

(4)Revenue gained by the fund raising programs organized by the cultural department.

(5)Revenue gained through the cultural groups.

20.Funds shall be released by the provincial treasury after the submission of the estimate preparedfor the purpose of utilizing the funds of the account, signed by the Ministry's secretary to thetreasury.

21.All transactions including the revenue and expenditure of the account shall be audited annuallyby the Auditor General. The report of these accounts shall be submitted to the provincial council-for information-by the minister in charge for the subject after three months from the completion ofthe financial year.

The minister in charge for the subject shall submit an annual report to the provincial councilwithin 03 months from the completion of the financial year.

Constitution ofthe authority.

Account of theauthority.

Registration ofthe authority andthe committees.

Establishment ofCentralProvincialcultural Account.

Credits of theaccount.

Paying moneyfrom the culturalaccount.

Auditing of theaccount.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.20189A

Part V

General Provisions

22. (1)The Minister can give orders to implement and enforce the provisions of this enactment.

(2) (1) Minister can give orders on each of the following matters or regarding all matters in a mannerwhich won't affect the common state of the powers granted by the sub section (1).

(3)Matters required implementing the duties and powers of the department cultural groups, culturalcommittees and central provincial cultural authority.

(4)Provisions regarding theatres, musical performances, shows at cinema halls, entertainment activitiesand related matters except the approval of cinema movies for exhibition and public performance.

(5)Provisions to set the standards and related matters regarding the production, sale and distributionof ‘‘Atapirikara’’ and other sacred items, clothes, jewellery and artifacts of the province which areidentified as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved’’.

(6)Provisions regarding traditional folk arts, traditional dances, songs, public performances andrelated matters which are identified as ''The Provincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved''.

(7)All the orders made by the minister shall be published in the gazette and needed to be presentedto the provincial council and approved within three months of such publishing.

(8)All the orders rejected by the provincial council shall be repealed from the date of such rejectionin a manner which does not affect any activity executed under such order.

Part VI

Offences and Penalties

23. (1)Atapirikara, Sacred items, clothes, jewellery and artifacts of the province which are named as ''TheProvincial Cultural Heritages which shall be conserved'' shall be produced, only in accordancewith the proper standards. If they are sold and distributed with the intention of earning profits, itmust be done in accordance with the proper standards.

(2)Any person or an institution or a group of person who produce, sell and distribute ‘‘Atapirikara’’,sacred items, clothes and jewellery and artifacts named as ‘‘The Provincial Cultural Heritageswhich shall be conserved’’ and not in accordance with the proper standards, is committing anoffense under this enactment.

(3)Any person or an institution or a group of persons who commits and offense under sub-section2, becomes an offender under this enactment and shall be subjected to a penalty of either a finenot exceeding Rs. 25,000 or an imprisonment not exceeding two years or to both penalties includingthe fine and the imprisonment, if found guilty after a short trial before a magistrate.

Orders imposedby the Minister.

It is an offenceto produce goodsnot inaccordance withthe standards.

10AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2018

24.Any person who is violating any provision of this enactment or violating any regulation of anorder made under this enactment which is mentioned in sub sections 23 (1) and 23 (2), becomes anoffender under this enactment and shall be subjected to a penalty of either a fine not exceedingRs. 10,000 or an imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both penalties including the fineand the imprisonment, if found guilty after a short trial before a magistrate, in case that offencebeing not considered for a special penalty under this enactment.

Part VII

Interim Provisions

25.The person who is serving as the Provincial Director of the Cultural Department of CentralProvince from before to the effective date shall be considered as the director appointed undersection 03 of this enactment for the matters of this enactment, and the officers working in thedepartment from before the effective date shall be considered as the officers mentioned in theabove section 04 of this enactment.

26.All assets, responsibilities, liabilities, law suits, and all contracts and agreements with thedepartment of cultural affairs which functioned before the effective date, will be considered as theassets, responsibilities, liabilities, law suits, and agreements of the department established underthis enactment.

27.In case another meaning needed with regard to the terms of this enactment, otherwise

The term ‘‘Visible cultural heritages’’ stand for all religious places, all places with culturalimportance, monuments, documents and items which could be conserved as ancient heritages.

The term ‘‘Invisible cultural heritages’’ stand for all religious and cultural festivals, fork lore,traditonal tales, traditional arts, magic and white magic.

The term ‘‘Governor’’ stands for the Governor of the Central Province.The term ‘‘Minister’’ stands for the Minister in charge of Cultural Affairs of the Central Province.

The term ‘‘Province’’ stand for the Central Province. The term ‘‘Provincial Council’’ stands for theCentral Provincial Council.

The term ‘‘Ministry’s Secretary’’ stand for the Secretary of the Ministry of Cultural Affairs of theCentral Province.

The term ‘‘Provincial Director’’ stand for the Director of the Department of cultural affairs ofCentral Province.

The term ‘‘Provincial Cultural Officer’’ stands for the cultural officer of the central provincialpublic service.

The term ‘‘Assets’’ stands for all the assets including the books, documents, cash in banks, cashleft in hand, furniture, buildings, lands, projects, all movable and immovable properties belongingto the cultural fund, cultural committees and cultural authority.

The term ‘‘Recruitment procedure’’ stands for the recruitment procedure approved by the centralprovincial governor.

Interpretation.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'11'12PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.201811A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

The term ‘‘Artist’’ stands for persons who are enagaged permanently in the fields of singing,music, dancing, literature, art, sculpture, carving, drama, cinema by their natural interest ortraditionally or by acqiring educational qualifications in these fields, as well as persons who arerendering or have rendered a service to the society in these fields.

The term ‘‘Cultural affairs’’ stands for the matters mentioned under sections 25.1, 25.2, 29.1 and 28of the first list of the sub section 09 of the constitution of 1978.

28.The department shall be considered as an institution sub-listed for the bribery act as per to theexplanation to that act and the provisions of that act shall be interpreted accordingly.

29.All the office bearers and employees of the department shall be considered as state officers withregard to the matters of criminal procedure.

30.If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil language versions of this enactment,the Sinhala version shall considered effective.

11 - 1100

To be consideredas an institutionsub-listed underthe bribery Act.

Employees to beconsidered asstate officers.