THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of April 29, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 29.04.2022)

WILLS (AMENDMENT)

BILL

to amend the Wills Ordinance (Chapter 60)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

A

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause replaces section 2 of the Wills Ordinance (Chapter 60) (hereinafterreferred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legel effect of the new section is to specify therequirements relating to making of a last will.

Clause 3: This clause repeals section 3 of the principal enactment.

Clause 4: This clause repeals section 4 of the principal enactment.

Clause 5: This clause amends section 7 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of thesection as amended is to enhance the scope of the said section.

Clause 6: This clause amends section 9 of the principal enactment and the legal effect of thesection as amended is to enhance the scope of the said section.

1Wills (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

Short title

Replacementof section 2 ofChapter 60

L. D.–O. 49/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE WILLS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 60)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Wills (Amendment) Act,No. of 2022.

2. Section 2 of the Wills Ordinance (Chapter 60)(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:–

2. (1) It shall be lawful for any person whohas reached the age of eighteen years andresiding within or outside Sri Lanka to executea will bequeathing and disposing any movableand immovable property and all and everyestate, right, share or interest in any propertywhich belong to him and which, if not sodevised, bequeathed or disposed woulddevolve upon his heirs of such person notlegally incapacitated from taking the same ashe shall seem fit.

(2) Every testator shall have full power tomake such testamentary disposition as he shallfeel disposed, and in the exercise of such rightto exclude any child, parent, relative, ordescendant, or to disinherit or omit to mentionany such person, without assigning any reasonfor such exclusion, disinheritance, or omission,any law, usage, or custom now or herefore inforce in Sri Lanka to the contrarynotwithstanding:

“Dispositionof propertyby a will

25

Wills (Amendment)2

Provided that nothing herein containedshall extend or be construed to extend toauthorize or entitle any testator to dispose bywill of any property or estate of his spouse, orto exclude or deprive such spouse of any lifeor other interest in any property, and to whichproperty, estate, or interest such spouse wouldhave been entitled if this Ordinance had notbeen passed.”.

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed.

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed.

5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:–

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof; and

(2)by the addition, immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) thereof, the following newsubsection:–

“(2) Upon the demise of a testator in a joint lastwill, testamentary proceedings shall be institutedunder Chapter XXXVIII or Chapter XXXVIIIB ofthe Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101), as the casemay be, to obtain the probate or letters ofadministration with the will annexed proving thewill.”.

5

10

15

20

25

Repeal ofsection 3 ofthe principalenactment

Repeal ofsection 4 ofthe principalenactment

Amendmentto section 7of theprincipalenactment

3Wills (Amendment)

6. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words “buildings erected on thesame, and”, of the words, “buildings erected on the same,condominium parcel or any land parcel, and”.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency

Amendmentto section 9of theprincipalenactment

5

Wills (Amendment)4

Department of Government Printing