==== BLOCKS ==== 

අංංක 2468/10 - 2025 දෙෙසැැම්බර් මස 23 වැැනි අඟහරුවාාදාා - 2025.12.23No. 2468/10 - TUESDAY, DECEMBER 23, 2025

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 7426 — 06 (12/2025)

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙෙˤෂ

EASTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Order under the Section 32(2) of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 amended by Provincial Council’s (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990 on delegation of powers of Eastern Provincial Public Service

I, Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera, the Governor of Eastern Province by virtue of powers vested in me under Section 32(1) of Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 as Amended by Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, do hereby delegate powers vested in me regarding recruitments, appointments, transfers, promotions, dismissal from service and dis-ciplinary control of officers of Eastern Provincial Public Service to the Provincial Public Service Commission in terms of Section 32(2) of the said Act, subject to the conditions stipulated in Schedules 1,2 and Appendix I,II with effect from the 01st of January 2026.

Officers aggrieved by the decisions of either the disciplinary authority and/or the Provincial Public Service Commission shall have the right of appeal to the Governor of the Eastern Province.

The Governor’s memorandum No. 2011/08 dated 08.09.2011 and its subsequent amendments regarding delegation of power are hereby repealed from the 1st of January 2026 without prejudice to actions taken under the said orders.

Dr. Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera,Governor of the Eastern Province.Governors’ Secretariat of Eastern Province,Orr’s Hill,Trincomalee.on 22nd December 2025.

PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20252A

GOVERNOR’S MEMORANDUM – 2026/01

Delegation of Power Concerning the Provincial Public Service

of the Eastern Province

Schedule 1

(1) I, Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera, Governor of the Eastern Province, by virtue of powers conferred on me under Section 32(2) of the Provincial Councils Act No: 42 of 1987, do hereby delegate powers relating to recruitment, appointment, placement, transfer, promotion, disciplinary control and dismissal of officers of the Provincial Public Service of the Eastern Province to the Provincial Public Service Commission of the Eastern Province (hereinafter referred to as PPSC-EP), which powers have been vested in me under Section 32(1) of the said Act, subject to the provisions of any other law, and without prejudice to my authority to exercise powers on appointment/placement and transfer exclusively in accordance with the provisions of the service minutes of the relevant All-Island Services in respect of the following positions of the Provincial Public Service of the Eastern Province, namely;

(i) Secretaries to the Ministries of the Eastern Province (ii) Secretary to the Governor of the Eastern Province (iii) Secretary to the Provincial Public Service Commission of the Eastern Province(iv) Secretary to the Council Secretariat, Eastern Province (v) Deputy Chief Secretaries of the Chief Secretary’s Cluster of the Eastern Province(vi) Heads of the Departments of the Eastern Provincial Council(vii) Municipal Commissioners of the Eastern Province(viii) Secretary to the Co-operative Employees’ Commission of the Eastern Province (ix) Assistant Secretary of the Governor’s Secretariat of the Eastern Province Schedule 2 (2) I, by virtue of power conferred on me under Section 32(1) of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987, hereby further authorize and direct the PPSC-EP, under Section 32(2A) of the said Act as amended by Chapter 4 of the Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1990, to re-delegate such powers to the Chief Secretary and other officers of the Provincial Public Service of the Eastern Province as described hereinafter, subject to the conditions that the Chief Secretary or any other officer to whom powers are delegated shall be exercised in strict and full compliance with the provisions of the service minute or Scheme of Recruitment (SOR) of the relevant services, establishment rules, procedural regulations and circulars are applicable to the Eastern Province to exercise or discharge of such powers. However, the PPSC-EP shall retain the following powers.

I. Recruitment of all categories of the Provincial Public Service

II. Appointment of Provincial Staff Officers equivalent to All-Island Services, as categorized under paragraph 2 of the Appendix I annexed hereto.

III. Appointment, disciplinary control, and dismissal of officers in the Special Grade and Supra Grade of the provincial combined service, as categorized under paragraph 4(ix) of Appendix I annexed hereto.

IV. Appointment of teachers as categorized under paragraph 5(i) of Appendix I annexed hereto.

V. Appointment of officers to the posts for which the appointing authority is the PPSC-EP, in accordance with the respective Schemes of Recruitment or Service Minutes.

VI. Appointment of officers on a contract and re-employment basis.

VII. Appointment of officers on an Acting or Attend-to-the-duties basis whose appointing authority is the PPSC-EP in accordance with their respective Schemes of Recruitment or Service Minutes.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2025

VIII. Conduct the structured interviews required by the Service Minutes or Scheme of Recruitment for the selection of officers to be appointed for any post scheduled under that Service Minute or Schemes of Recruitment, with the marking schemes of marks approved by me.

IX. Release of all Provincial Public Service Officers categorized under Appendix 1, except paragraph 1 annexed hereto from the Eastern Province Public Service, with my concurrence.

The recruitments and appointments, including those on contract and re-employment basis referred to above, shall be exercised only with my concurrence.

(3) Declare that until otherwise provided for and determined by me under Section 32(3) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987,

I. The Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (Volume I and II), as amended from time to time, shall apply to all officers of the Eastern Provincial Council.

II. Provincial Procedural Rules of the Eastern Provincial Council and any circulars issued by PPSC-EP with my concurrence shall apply to all officers of the Eastern Provincial Council.

III. The Procedural Rules issued by the Public Service Commission, as amended from time to time, shall apply to all officers of the Eastern Provincial Council upon their adoption by the province with my concurrence.

IV. Circulars issued by the Public Service Commission, Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance, and any other Line Ministries relating to the recruitment, appointment, transfer, disciplinary control, and dismissal of public officers shall apply to the Eastern Provincial Public Service, with my concurrence and upon the recommendation of the PPSC-EP or the Chief Secretary of the Eastern Province, as the case may be.

(4) (A) Powers to be delegated to the Chief Secretary of the Eastern Province

I. The powers of placements, transfers and preliminary investigation of officers belonging to the All-Island Services, as categorized under paragraph 01 of Appendix I annexed hereto as released or attached on the basis of secondment to the Provincial Public Service in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 56/89 dated 15.11.1989, as amended subsequently by circular No. 56/89(i) dated 23.04.1993 and No. 56/89(ii) dated 21.11.1995 shall be exercised in accordance with the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission and the Scheme of Transfers approved by the Public Service Commission. However, the placement and transfer of All-Island Service officers as categorized under paragraph 01(i), (ii), (vi), and (vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, shall be exercised in consultation with the respective Secretary and/or Deputy Chief Secretary, with my concurrence.

II. The powers to release officers belonging to the All-Island Services, as categorized under paragraph 01 of Appendix I annexed hereto, and serving in the Eastern Provincial Council, shall be exercised with my concurrence.

III. The powers of placement, transfer, disciplinary control, and dismissal of Provincial Staff Officers equivalent to the All Island Services, as categorized under paragraph 02 of Appendix I annexed hereto.

IV. The powers of appointment, transfer, disciplinary control, and dismissal of Primary Grade Service Employees (Closed service), as categorized under paragraph 05(vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, fall under the direct administrative purview of the Chief Secretary, and such recruitments shall be subject to the approval of the PPSC-EP.

V. The powers of appointment of Primary Grade Service Employees (Closed Service), as categorized under paragraph 05(vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, on a casual or temporary basis, fall under the direct administrative purview of the Chief Secretary, shall be subject to my concurrence.

(3)

(4)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20254A

(B) Powers to be delegated to Deputy Chief Secretary, Administration of the Eastern Province

I. The powers of appointment, placement, transfer, promotion, disciplinary control, and dismissal of Provincial Combined Service Officers, as categorized under paragraph 03 of Appendix I annexed hereto, and the placement and transfer of officers of Special Grade and Supra Grade within the Provincial Combined Service, as categorized under paragraph 4(ix) of Appendix I annexed hereto, shall be exercised in consultation with the Chief Secretary, respective Deputy Chief Secretaries and Secretaries of the Ministries.

II. The appointments of the officers referred to above on a casual or temporary basis shall be subject to my express approval upon receipt of the recommendation from the PPSC-EP.

III. The powers of appointment of Primary Grade Service Employees (Closed Service), as categorized under paragraph 05(vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, on a casual or temporary basis, fall under the direct administrative purview of the Deputy Chief Secretary (Administration) shall be subject to my concurrence.

(C) Powers to be delegated to the Secretary to the Provincial Public Service Commission, Secretaries to the Ministries, Secretary to the Council Secretariat, Secretary to the Governor, and Deputy Chief Secretaries (except Deputy Chief Secretary (Administration) of the Eastern Province.

I. The powers of placement and transfer of officers of the All-Island Services within their respective administrative purview, except for the officers mentioned under paragraph 01(i), (ii), (vi), and (vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, shall be exercised unless otherwise specifically stipulated in their respective Scheme of Recruitment, Service Minute or Scheme of Transfer.

II. The powers of appointment, placement, transfer, disciplinary control, and dismissal of Staff Grade Officers not belonging to the Provincial Combined Service, as categorized under paragraph 04 of Appendix I annexed hereto, fall under their respective administrative purview and shall be exercised unless otherwise specifically stipulated in their respective Scheme of Recruitment, Service Minute or Scheme of Transfer.

III. The powers of placement, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of officers of the Sri Lanka Principal Service, as categorized under paragraph 04(ii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, and the power of disciplinary control and dismissal of officers of the Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service, as categorized under paragraph 05(i) of the Appendix I annexed hereto, shall be vested with the Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Eastern Province and shall be exercised unless otherwise specifically stipulated in their respective Scheme of Recruitment, Service Minute or Scheme of Transfer.

IV. The powers of disciplinary control and dismissal of Provincial Non-Staff Grade Officers, as categorized under paragraph 05(ii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, shall be vested with the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Eastern Province and shall be exercised unless otherwise specifically stipulated in their respective Scheme of Recruitment, Service Minute or Scheme of Transfer.

V. The powers of appointment, placement, transfer, disciplinary control, and dismissal of Provincial Non-staff Grade Officers, as categorized under paragraph 05 of Appendix I annexed hereto, who fall under their respective administrative purview, except for the categories mentioned in 4 C (III) and 4 C (IV) above, shall be exercised unless otherwise specifically stipulated in their respective Scheme of Recruitment, Service Minute or Scheme of Transfer.

VI. The powers of appointment, transfer, disciplinary control, and dismissal of Primary Grade Service Employees (Closed Service), as described under paragraph 05(vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, fall under the respective administrative purview of the Secretaries and Deputy Chief Secretaries. However, appointment to the above category should be done after the concurrence of the PPSC-EP.

VII. The power to grant temporary transfer of officers entering the Province or leaving the Province on medical or compassionate grounds shall be exercised only with my express approval, upon receipt of the recommendation from the PPSC-EP.

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2025

Note: All matters connected with the disciplinary control of officers of the Provincial Public Service shall be kept informed from time to time to the PPSC-EP and the respective Appointing or Disciplinary Authority.

(D) Powers to be delegated to the Heads of Departments of the Province

I. The powers to transfer Non-Staff Grade Departmental Service Officers and Primary Grade Service Employees (Closed Service), as categorized under paragraph 5(iv) and 5(vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, within their respective administrative purview, shall be exercised unless otherwise specifically stipulated in their respective Scheme of Recruitment, Service Minute, or Scheme of Transfer.

II. The powers to serve notice of vacation of post, interdict any officers or employees serving within the department, and impose the minor punishments referred to in volume II of the Establishment code shall be exercised while keeping the PPSC-EP, and the respective Appointing/Disciplinary Authorities informed.

III. The powers of placement and transfer of teachers within the Province, as categorized under paragraph 05(i) of Appendix I annexed hereto, shall be vested in the Provincial Director of Education, with the concurrence of the Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Eastern Province.

IV. The powers of placement and transfer of officers categorized under paragraph 5(ii) of Appendix I annexed hereto shall be vested in the Provincial Director of Health Services, with the concurrence of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Eastern Province.

(E) Powers to be delegated to Administrative Heads of Local Authorities

I. The powers of recruitment, appointment, transfer, disciplinary control, interdiction and dismissal of unscheduled post employees of the respective Local Authorities, and to serve notice of vacation of post on officers or employees shall fall under their respective administrative purview, while keeping the PPSC-EP, Secretaries to the respective Ministries, Deputy Chief Secretary (Administration), and the Commissioner of Local Government, Eastern Province, informed.

(F) Powers to be delegated to Local Heads of Institutions, including the Zonal Director of Education

I. The power to transfer teachers, as categorized under paragraph 05(i) of Appendix I annexed hereto, among the schools within the respective zone shall be vested in the respective Zonal Director of Education with the concurrence of the Provincial Director of Education, Eastern Province.

II. The power to serve notice of vacation of post on officers or employees shall fall under their respective administrative purview, while keeping the PPSC-EP and the respective Appointing/Disciplinary Authorities informed.

III. The power to impose the minor punishment referred to in Volume II of the Establishment Code on Primary Grade Employees (Closed Service), categorized under paragraph 5(vii) of Appendix I annexed hereto, shall fall under their respective administrative purview, while keeping the PPSC-EP and the respective Appointing/Disciplinary Authorities informed.

(5) The powers delegated by me shall be exercised by the respective delegated authorities in accordance with the directions and guidance issued by me from time to time in relation to such delegation.

(6) Any officers of the Eastern Provincial Council exercising delegated powers shall obtain my concurrence before effecting the transfer of officers on grounds of exigency of service.

(7) Appeals

(I) Any officer of the Provincial Public Service of the Eastern Province, if aggrieved by any decision or order made by the Chief Secretary or other officers of the Provincial Public Service within the ambit of such delegated powers, may refer an appeal to the PPSC-EP against such decision or order. Upon receipt of such appeal, the PPSC-EP may consider the appeal, and if necessary, alter, vary, withdraw, or restore the decision or order made by the Chief Secretary or other officers of the Provincial Public Service under Section 32(2B) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987, as amended by the Act No. 28 of 1990.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20256A

(II) Any officer of the Provincial Public Service of the Eastern Province, if aggrieved by the decision of PPSC-EP, Chief Secretary or other officers of Eastern Provincial Council under such delegated powers, may appeal against such decision to me. Upon the receipt of such appeal, I shall make an order in accordance with the powers conferred on me under Section 33(8) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987, as amended by Section 5 of Act No. 28 of 1990.

(III) Appeals in the case of All-Island Service officers shall be made in terms of the procedure stipulated under Public Administration Circular No. 56/89 dated 15.11.1989, as amended subsequently by circulars No. 56/89(i) dated 23.04.1993 and No. 56/89(ii) dated 21.11.1995.

(8) If an officer of the Provincial Public Service of the Eastern Province is under a transfer order to be transferred out of the province, the authority responsible for the release of such officer must obtain my written permission through the Provincial Public Service Commission prior to such release.

(9) The Provincial Public Officers of the Eastern Provincial Council shall be held liable for any loss, pecuniary or otherwise, caused to the Eastern Provincial Council as a result of their actions, or non-action or decision in violation or abuse of the powers delegated herein.

(10) Appendices I and II, detailing the categories of services and Heads of Institutions of the Eastern Provincial Council, respectively, are annexed hereto.

(11) In the event of any ambiguity in this memorandum, my decision shall be final and conclusive.

(12) This memorandum shall come into force on 01st January 2026, whereas the Governor’s Memorandum No. 2011/08 dated 08.09.2011, its subsequent amendments No. 03/2013 dated 29.08.2013, No. 04/2014 dated 16.07.2014, No. 01/2015 dated 15.04.2015, and any other subsequent amendments issued prior to this memorandum regarding the delegation of powers, are hereby repealed with effect from 01st January 2026.

(13) In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts of this memorandum, the English text shall prevail.

Dr. Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera,

Governor of Eastern Province.

22nd December 2025.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2025

APPENDIX I

01. ALL ISLAND SERVICES

(i) Sri Lanka Administrative Service (ii) Sri Lanka Engineering Service (iii) Sri Lanka Scientific Service (iv) Sri Lanka Agriculture Service (v) Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service (vi) Sri Lanka Planning Service (vii) Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service (viii) Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service (ix) Sri Lanka Architects’ Service (x) Sri Lanka Audit Service (xi) Sri Lanka Medical Officers’ Service (Specialists and Non Specialists)(xii) Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Officers’ Service (xiii) Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service(xiv) Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service

02. PROVINCIAL STAFF OFFICERS EQUIVALENT TO ALL ISLAND SERVICE

i. Provincial Accountantsii. Provincial Planning Officers iii. Provincial Engineers iv. Provincial Agriculture Officers v. Provincial Assistant Commissioners of Co-operative Department vi. Provincial Assistant Commissioners of Land vii. Provincial Assistant Commissioners of Local Government viii. Provincial Assistant Revenue Commissioners ix. Provincial Legal Officers x. Provincial Tax Assessors xi. Quantity Surveyors xii. Statisticians02. 03. PROVINCIAL COMBINED SERVICE

i. Provincial Translators’ Service (Staff Grade Officers as per paragraph II of P.A. Circular 06/2006)

ii. Provincial Development Officers’ Service

iii. ICT Officers (Staff grade officers as per paragraph II of P.A. Circular 06/2006) and ICT Assistants’ Service

iv. Sri Lanka Technological Service (Civil/Mechanical/Draughtsman/Quantity Surveying)

v. Provincial Public Management Service Officers’ Service

vi. Provincial Drivers’ Service

vii. Provincial Office Employees’ Service

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.20258A

04. PROVINCIAL STAFF GRADE OFFICERS (AS PER PARAGRAPH II OF P.A. CIRCULAR 06/2006 BUT NOT BELONGING TO THE ALL ISLAND SERVICE)

i. Field Based Officers – Staff Grade ii. Sri Lanka Principal Service Officersiii. Special Grade of Nurses, Professions Supplementary to the Medicines Service and Para-Medical Service Officers iv. Registered Medical Officers/Assistant Medical Officersv. Planning Implementation Officers vi. System Administrators/Programmer – Staff Grade vii. Tax Officers viii. Officers of Supervisory Management Assistant (Technical) Special Grade, except the posts in the combined service. ix. Officers of Special Grade and Supra Grade in the Combined Service x. Staff grade departmental service officers (Closed Service) 05. PROVINCIAL NON-STAFF GRADE OFFICERS (AS PER PARAGRAPH II OF P.A. CIRCULAR 6 OF 2006, BUT NOT BELONGING TO THE PROVINCIAL COMBINED SERVICE)

i. Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service ii. Nurses, Professions Supplementary to the Medicines Service, Para-Medical Services except the Special Grades of these services. iii. Posts belonging to the Management Assistant(Technical)/ Supervisory Management Assistant (Technical) except the posts in the Combined Serviceiv. Non-Staff Grade Departmental Service (Closed Service) v. Medical Record Assistants vi. Local Government Assistants vii. Primary Grade Service Employees (Closed Service)

Dr. Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera,

Governor of Eastern Province.

22nd December 2025.

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.2025

APPENDIX II

HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS

SECTORSINSTITUTION/INSTITUTIONS UNDER

THE PURVIEW OF THE SECTOR

HEAD OF THE INSTITUTION

1. Governor’s Cluster of the Eastern Province (1)Governor’s Secretariat Secretary(2)Provincial Public Service Commission Secretary(3)Provincial Council Secretariat Secretary2. Chief Secretary’s Secretariat and Cluster of the Eastern Provincial Council(1)Chief Secretary Secretariat Chief Secretary(2)Department of Revenue Provincial Revenue Commissioner (3)Department of Provincial Audit Chief Internal Auditor (4)Deputy Chief Secretary’s Secretariat -AdministrationDeputy Chief Secretary -Administration

(5)Deputy Chief Secretary’s Secretariat - FinanceDeputy Chief Secretary -Finance(6)Deputy Chief Secretary’s Secretariat -PlanningDeputy Chief Secretary -Planning(7) Deputy Chief Secretary’s Secretariat -Engineering ServiceDeputy Chief Secretary - Engineering Service(8) Deputy Chief Secretary’s Secretariat - Personnel and TrainingDeputy Chief Secretary -Personnel and Training(9)Management Development Training InstituteProvincial Director of Management Development Training Institute(10)Legal Unit Chief Legal Officer(11)Department of Motor Traffic Provincial Commissioner of Motor Traffic3. Chief Ministry & Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law & Order, Local Government and Regional Administration, Rural Development, Rural Industries, Tourism and Environment, Eastern Province (1)Chief MinistrySecretary(2)Department of Local Government Commissioner of Local Government (3)Department of Rural Development Provincial Director of Rural Development(4)Department of Rural Industries Provincial Director of Rural Industries(5)Tourism BureauGeneral Manager of Tourism Bureau4. Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Production and Health, Co-operative Development, Land & Land Administration, Fisheries, Food Supply and Distribution, Eastern Province(1)Ministry of AgricultureSecretary(2)Department of AgricultureProvincial Director of Agriculture(3)Department of Animal Production and Health Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health(4)Department of Co-operative Development Provincial Commissioner of Co-operative Development (5) Department of Land Administration Provincial Land Commissioner (6) Co-operative Employees CommissionSecretary, Co-operative Employees Commission(7)Fisheries Unit Provincial Director of Fisheries

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'23Part IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.12.202510A

5. Ministry of Education, Sports, Cultural Affairs, Pre-school Education, Information Technology Education, Youth Affairs, Rehabilitation & Resettlement, Skill & Manpower Development, Eastern Province(1)Ministry of EducationSecretary(2)Department of EducationProvincial Director of Education (3)Department of Sports Provincial Director of Sports (4)Department of Cultural Affairs Provincial Director of Cultural Affairs (5) Preschool Education Bureau General Manager of Preschool Education Bureau6. Ministry of Road Development, Irrigation, Transport, Building and Construction, Housing, Rural Electrification and Water supply, Eastern Province(1)Ministry of Road DevelopmentSecretary(2)Department of Road Development Provincial Director of Road Development (3)Department of Irrigation Provincial Director of Irrigation(4)Department of Building Provincial Director of Buildings(5) Road Passenger Transport Authority Director General of Road Passenger Transport Authority(6)Housing Authority General Manager of Housing Authority7. Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation & Childcare, Social Welfare and Women Affairs, Eastern Province(1)Ministry of Health ServicesSecretary(2)Department of Health Services Provincial Director of Health Services(3)Department of Indigenous Medicine Provincial Commissioner of Indigenous Medicine (4)Department of Probation and Childcare ServicesProvincial Commissioner of Probation (5)Department of Social Services Provincial Director of Social Services

Dr. Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera,

Governor of Eastern Province.

22nd December 2025.

EOG 12 - 0224

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.