==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1898$29 - 2015 ckjdß ui 21 jeks nodod - 2015'01'21No. 1898/29 - WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2015

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1- PG 2334

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, No. 15 OF 1995

Publication under Section 4(2)

BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the annual improvements to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards 2014, published herewithfor the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These changes shall be effectivefor financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of July Two Thousand Fourteen.

By Order of the Council,

ARUNA ALWIS, Secretary.

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,No. 30A,Malalasekera Mawatha,Colombo 07,21st January, 2015.

N.B.—Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20152A

Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014

CONTENTS

Introduction

Standards Addressed

Amendment to SLFRS 3 Business Combinations

Amendment to SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement

Amendment to LKAS 40 Investment Property

Amendment to SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment

Amendment to SLFRS 3 Business Combinations

Amendment to LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment

Amendment to LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures

Amendment to LKAS 38 Intangible Assets

Amendments to LKAS 19 Employee Benefits

Introduction

This document sets out amendments to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs)

The Annual Improvements process provides a vehicle for making non-urgent but necessary amendments to SLFRSs.

The effective date of each amendment is included in the SLFRSs affected.

Standards addressed

The following table shows the topics addressed by these amendments.

StandardSubject of amendment

SLFRS 3 Business CombinationsScope exceptions for joint ventures.

SLFRS 13 Fair Value MeasurementScope of paragraph 52 (portfolio exception).

LKAS 40 Investment PropertyClarifying the interrelationship between SLFRS 3 and LKAS 40 whenclassifying property as investment property orowner-occupiedproperty.

SLFRS 3 Business CombinationsScope exceptions for joint ventures.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20153A

LKAS 40 Investment PropertyClarifying the interrelationship between SLFRS 3 and LKAS 40 whenclassifying property as investment property or owner-occupiedproperty.

SLFRS 2 Share-based PaymentDefinition of vesting condition

SLFRS 3 Business CombinationsAccounting for contingent consideration in a business combination

SLFRS 8 Operating SegmentsAggregation of operating segments

Reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments’ assets to theentity’s assets

LKAS 16 Property, Plant and EquipmentRevaluation method—proportionate restatement of accumulateddepreciation

LKAS 24 Related Party DisclosureKey management personnel

LKAS 38 Intangible AssetsRevaluation method—proportionate restatement of accumulatedamortisation

LKAS 19 Employee BenefitsClarifies how contributions from employees or third parties that arelinked to service should be attributed to periods of service.Providespractical expedient, if the amount of the contributions is independentof the number of years of service

Amendment toSLFRS 3 Business Combinations

Paragraph 2 is amended and paragraph 64I is added. New text is underlined anddeleted text is struck through

Scope

2This SLFRS applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business combination. This IFRS doesnot apply to:

(a) the accounting for the formation of a joint venture joint arrangement in the financial statements of the jointarrangement itself.

(b) ...

Effective date ...

64HAnnual Improvements Cycle 2014 amended paragraph 2(a). An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively forannual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendmentfor an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

StandardSubject of amendment

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20154A

Amendment toSLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement

Paragraph 52 is amended and paragraph C4 is added. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.

Application to financial assets and financial liabilities with offsetting positions in market risks or counterparty credit risk

...

52The exception in paragraph 48 applies only to financial assets, and financial liabilities and other contracts within thescope of LKAS39 Financial Instruments:Recognition and Measurement or SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. Thereferences to financial assets and financial liabilities in paragraphs 48–51 and 53–56 should be read as applying to allcontracts within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance with, LKAS 39 or SLFRS 9, regardless of whether theymeet the definitions of financial assets or financial liabilities in LKAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.

...

Appendix CEffective date and transition

...

C4Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 amended paragraph52. An entity shall apply that amendment for annualperiods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively from the beginning ofthe annual period in which SLFRS 13 was initially applied. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies thatamendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Amendment toLKAS40 Investment Property

Before paragraph 6, a heading is added. Paragraph 14A is added. After paragraph 84 a heading and paragraphs 84A and85D are added. Paragraphs 6 and 14 have been included for ease of reference but are not amended. New text isunderlined.

Classification of property as investment property or owner-occupied property

6A property interest that is held by a lessee under an operating lease may be classified and accounted for asinvestment property if, and only if, the property would otherwise meet the definition of an investment property andthe lessee uses the fair value model set out in paragraphs 33–55 forthe asset recognised. This classificationalternative is available on aproperty-by-property basis. However, once this classification alternative is selected forone such property interest held under an operating lease,all property classified as investment property shall beaccounted forusing the fair value model. When this classification alternative is selected, any interest so classifiedis included in the disclosures required by paragraphs 74–78.

...

14Judgementis needed to determine whether a property qualifies as investment property. An entity develops criteria sothat it can exercise that judgement consistently in accordance with the definition of investment property and withtherelated guidance in paragraphs 7–13. Paragraph 75(c) requires an entity to disclose these criteria when classificationis difficult.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20155A

14AJudgement is also needed to determine whether the acquisition of investment property is the acquisition of an assetor a group of assets or a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3 Business Combinations. Referenceshould be made to SLFRS 3 to determine whether it is a business combination. The discussion in paragraphs 7–14 ofthis Standard relates to whether or not property is owner-occupied property or investment property and nottodetermining whether or not the acquisition of property is a business combination as defined in SLFRS 3. Determiningwhether a specific transaction meets the definition of a business combination as defined in SLFRS 3 and in cludes aninvestment property as defined in this Standard requires the separate application of both Standards.

Transitional provisions

Cost model

Business Combinations

84AAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 added paragraph 14A and a heading before paragraph 6. An entity shallapply that amendment prospectively for acquisitions of investment property from the beginning of the first periodfor which it adopts that amendment. Consequently, accounting for acquisitions of investment property in priorperiods shall not be adjusted. However, an entity may choose to apply the amendment to individual acquisitions ofinvestment property that occurred prior to the beginning of the first annual period occurring on or after theeffective date if, and only if, information needed to apply the amendment to those earlier transactions is available tothe entity.

Effective date

...

85DAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 added headings before paragraph 6 and after paragraph 84 and added paragraphs14A and 84A.An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlierapplication is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Amendment to SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment

Paragraphs 15 and 19 were amended and paragraph 63B was added. New text isunderlined and deleted text is struckthrough.

Transactions in which services are received

…

15If the equity instruments granted do not vest until the counterparty completes a specified period of service, the entityshall presume that the services to be rendered by the counterparty as consideration for those equity instruments willbe received in the future, during the vesting period. The entity shall account for those services as they are renderedby the counterparty during the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity. For example:

(a) …

(b) if an employee is granted share options conditional upon the achievement of a performance condition performance

condition and remaining in the entity’s employ until that performance condition is satisfied, and the length ofthe vesting period varies depending on when that performance condition is satisfied, the entity shall presumethat the services to be rendered by the employee as consideration for the share options will be received in thefuture, over the expected vesting period.

…

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20156A

Treatment of vesting conditions

19A grant of equity instruments might be conditional upon satisfying specified vesting conditions vesting conditions.For example, a grant of shares or share options to an employee is typically conditional on the employee remaining inthe entity’s employ for a specified period of time. There might be performance conditions that must be satisfied, suchas the entity achieving a specified growth in profit or a specified increase in the entity’s share price. Vesting conditions,other than market conditions, shall not be taken into account when estimating the fair value of the shares or shareoptions at the measurement date. Instead, vesting conditions shall be taken into account by adjusting the number ofequity instruments included in the measurement of the transaction amount so that, ultimately, the amount recognisedfor goods or services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted shall be based on the number ofequity instruments that eventually vest. Hence, on a cumulative basis, no amount is recognised for goods or servicesreceived if the equity instruments granted do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting conditionvestingcondition, eg the counterparty fails to complete a specified service period, or a performance condition is not satisfied,subject to the requirements of paragraph 21.

…

Effective date

…

63BAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraphs 15 and 19.In Appendix A, the definitions of ‘vestingconditions’ and ‘market condition’ were amended and the definitions of ‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’were added. An entity shall prospectively apply that amendment to share-based payment transactions for which thegrant date is on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlierperiod it shall disclose that fact.

In Appendix A, the definitions of ‘market condition’ and ‘vesting conditions’ are amended and the definitions of‘performance condition’ and ‘service condition’ are added. New text is underlined and deleted text is struckthrough.

Appendix ADefined terms

This appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS.

…

market conditionA performance condition condition upon which the exercise price, vesting or exercisability of anequity instrument depends that is related to the market price (or value) of the entity’s equityinstruments(or the equity instruments of another entity in the same group), such as:

(a) attaining a specified share price or a specified amount of intrinsic value of a share option,; or

(b) achieving a specified target that is based on the market price (or value) of the entity’s equityinstruments (or the equity instruments of another entity in the same group) relative to an indexof market prices of equity instruments of other entities.

A market condition requires the counterparty to complete a specified period of service (ie a servicecondition); the service requirement can be explicit or implicit.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20157A

performance condition A vesting condition that requires:

(a) the counterparty to complete a specified period of service (ie a service condition); the service

requirement can be explicit or implicit; and

(b) Specified performance target(s) to be met while the counterparty is rendering the service

required in (a).

The period of achieving the performance target(s):

(a) shall not extend beyond the end of the service period ; and

(b) may start before the service period on the condition that the commencement date of the

performance target is not substantially before the commencement of the service period.

A performance target is defined by reference to:

(a) the entity’s own operations (or activities) or the operations or activities of another entity in the

same group (ie a non-market condition); or

(b) the price (or value) of the entity’s equity instruments or the equity instruments of another

entity in the same group (including shares and share options) (ie a market condition).

A performance target might relate either to the performance of the entity as a whole or to some partof the entity (or part of the group), such as a division or an individual employee.

…

service conditionA vesting condition that requires the counterparty to complete a specified period of service duringwhich services are provided to the entity. If the counterparty, regardless of the reason, ceases toprovide service during the vesting period, it has failed to satisfy the condition. A service conditiondoes not require a performance target to be met.

…

vestingconditionsThe A conditions that determines whether the entity receives the services that entitle the counterpartyto receive cash, other assets or equity instruments of the entity, under a share-based paymentarrangement.A vVesting conditions are is either service conditions a service condition or performanceconditions a performance condition.Service conditions require the counterparty to complete a specifiedperiod of service. Performance conditions require the counterparty to complete a specified period ofservice and specified performance targets to be met (such as a specified increase in the entity’s profitover a specified period of time). A performance condition might include a market condition.

Amendment toSLFRS 3 Business Combinations

Paragraphs 40 and 58 are amended and paragraph 64I and paragraph 67A and its related heading are added. New text isunderlined and deleted text is struck through.

Contingent consideration…

40The acquirer shall classify an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the definition of a financialinstrument as a financial liability or as equity on the basis of the definitions of an equity instrument and a financialliability in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, or other applicable SLFRSs. The acquirer

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20158A

shall classify as an asset a right to the return of previously transferred consideration if specified conditions are met.Paragraph 58 provides guidance on the subsequent accounting for contingent consideration.…

Contingent consideration

58Some changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that the acquire rrecognises after the acquisition date maybe the result of additional information that the acquirer obtained after that date about facts and circumstances thatexisted at the acquisition date. Such changes are measurement period adjustments in accordance with paragraphs 45–49. However, changes resulting from events after the acquisition date, such as meeting an earnings target, reachinga specified share price or reaching a milestone on a research and development project, are not measurement periodadjustments. The acquirer shall account for changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that are notmeasurement period adjustments as follows:

(a) …

(b) Other cContingent consideration classified as an asset or a liability that:

(i) is a financial instrument and is within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each

reporting date,with any resulting gain or loss recognised either in profit or loss or in other comprehensiveincomeand changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9.

(ii) is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be accounted for in accordance with LKAS 37 or other SLFRSs as

appropriate. Measured at fair value at each reporting date and changes in fair value shall be recognised inprofit or loss.

…

Effective date…

64IAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraphs 40 and 58 and added paragraph 67A and its relatedheading. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisitiondate is on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. An entity may apply the amendment earlier provided thatSLFRS 9 and LKAS 37 (both as amended by Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 have also been applied. If anentity applies that amendment earlier it shall disclose that fact.

Reference to SLFRS 9

67AIf an entity applies this Standard but does not yet apply SLFRS 9, any reference to SLFRS 9 should be read as areference to LKAS 39.

Consequential amendments to other SLFRSs resulting from the amendment to SLFRS 3

Amendment toLKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets

Paragraph 5 is amended and paragraph 99 is added. New text is underlined anddeleted text is struck through.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.20159A

Scope

…

5When another Standard deals with a specific type of provision, contingent liability or contingent asset, an entityapplies that Standard instead of this Standard. For example, some types of provisions are addressed in Standards on:

(a) …

(d) employee benefits (see LKAS 19 Employee Benefits); and

(e) insurance contracts (see SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts). However, this Standard applies to provisions, contingentliabilities and contingent assets of an insurer, other than those arising from its contractual obligations and rightsunder insurance contracts within the scope of SLFRS4.; and

(f) contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination (see SLFRS 3 Business Combinations).…

Effective date

…

99Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraph 5 as a consequential amendment derived from theamendment to SLFRS 3. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to business combinations to which theamendment to SLFRS 3 applies.

Amendment to LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement

Paragraph 9 is amended and paragraph 108F is added. New text is underlined.

Definitions

…

9The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

…

Definitions of four categories of financial instruments

A financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss is a financial asset or financial liabilitythat meets either any of the following conditions.

(a) …

(aa) It is contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination to which SLFRS 3 Business

Combinations applies.

(a) …

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201510A

Effective date and transition

…

108FAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraph 9 as a consequential amendment derived from theamendment to SLFRS 3. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively to business combinations to which theamendment to SLFRS 3 applies.

Amendments to SLFRS 8 Operating Segments

Paragraphs 22 and 28 are amended and paragraph 36C is added. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.

General information

22An entity shall disclose the following general information:

(a) factors used to identify the entity’s reportable segments, including the basis of organisation (for example,whether management has chosen to organise the entity around differences in products and services,geographical areas, regulatory environments, or a combination of factors and whether operating segmentshave been aggregated);, and

(aa) the judgements made by management in applying the aggregation criteria in paragraph 12. This includes a brief

description of the operating segments that have been aggregated in this way and the economic indicators thathave been assessed in determining that the aggregated operating segments share similar economiccharacteristics; and

(b) types of products and services from which each reportable segment derives its revenues.

…

Reconciliations

28An entity shall provide reconciliations of all of the following:

(a) ...

(c) the total of the reportable segments’ assets to the entity’s assets if the segment assets are reported in

accordance with paragraph 23.

(b) ...

Transition and effective date

…

36CAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraphs 22 and 28. An entity shall apply those amendments forannual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendmentsfor an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201511A

Amendment toLKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment

Paragraph 35 is amended and paragraphs 80A and 81H are added. New text is underlined and deleted text is struckthrough.

Revaluation model

…

35When an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, any accumulated depreciation the carrying amount of that

asset is adjusted to the revalued amount. Aat the date of the revaluation, the asset is treated in one of the followingways:

(a) restated proportionately the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the change in

the gross carrying amount of the asset so that revaluation of the carrying amount of the asset. For example, thegross carrying amount may be restated by reference to observable market data or it may be restated proportionatelyto the change in the carrying amount. The accumulated depreciation at the date of the revaluation is adjusted toequal the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the asset after taking intoaccount accumulated impairment losses; or after revaluation equals its revalued amount. This method is oftenused when an asset is revalued by means of applying an index to determine its replacement cost (see SLFRS 13).

(b) the accumulated depreciation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset. and the net amount

restated to the revalued amount of the asset. This method is often used for buildings.

The amount of the adjustment arising on the restatement or elimination of accumulated depreciation forms part of theincrease or decrease in carrying amount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 39 and 40.

…

Transitional provisions

…

80AParagraph 35 was amended by Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014. An entity shall apply that amendment to allrevaluations recognised in annual periods beginning on or after the date of initial application of that amendment andin the immediately preceding annual period. An entity may also present adjusted comparative information for anyearlier periods presented, but it is not required to do so. If an entity presents unadjusted comparative information forany earlier periods, it shall clearly identify the information that has not been adjusted, state that it has been presentedon a different basis and explain that basis.

Effective date

…

81HAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraph 35 and added paragraph 80A. An entity shall apply thatamendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity appliesthat amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201512A

Amendment toLKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures

Paragraph 9 is amended and paragraphs 17A, 18A and 28C are added. New text is underlined.

Definitions

9The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial statements (in thisStandard referred to as the ‘reporting entity’).

(a) …

(b) An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of the following conditions applies:

(i) …

(viii) The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel services

to the reporting entity or to the parent of the reporting entity.…

All entities

…

17AIf an entity obtains key management personnel services from another entity (the ‘management entity’), the entity isnot required to apply the requirements in paragraph 17 to the compensation paid or payable by the managemententity to the management entity’s employees or directors.

18…

18AAmounts incurred by the entity for the provision of key management personnel services that are provided by aseparate management entity shall be disclosed.

…

Effective date and transition

…

28CAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraph 9 and added paragraphs 17A and 18A. An entity shallapply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entityapplies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Amendment toLKAS 38 Intangible Assets

Paragraph 80 is amended and underlined and deleted text is struck through Paragraphs 130H–130I are added.New text is underlined.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201513A

Revaluation model

…

80If When an intangible asset is revalued, any accumulated amortisation the carrying amount of that asset is adjustedto the revalued amount. Aat the date of the revaluation, the asset is either treated in one of the following ways:

(a) restated proportionately the gross carrying amount is adjusted in a manner that is consistent with the change

in the gross carrying amount of the asset so that revaluation of the carrying amount of the asset. For example,the gross carrying amount may be restated by reference to observable market data or it may be restatedproportionately to the change in the carrying amount. The accumulated amortisation at the date of the revaluationis adjusted to equal the difference between the gross carrying amount and the carrying amount of the assetafter taking into account accumulated impairment losses after revaluation equals its revalued amount; or

(c) the accumulated amortisation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset. and the net amount

restated to the revalued amount of the asset.

The amount of the adjustment of accumulated amortisation forms part of the increase or decrease in the carryingamount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 85 and 86.

…

Transitional provisions and effective date

…

130HAnnual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014, amended paragraph 80. An entity shall apply that amendment for annualperiods beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for anearlier period it shall disclose that fact.

130IAn entity shall apply the amendment made by Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2014 to all revaluations recognisedin annual periods beginning on or after the date of initial application of that amendment and in the immediatelypreceding annual period. An entity may also present adjusted comparative information for any earlier periods presented,but it is not required to do so. If an entity presents unadjusted comparative information for any earlier periods, it shallclearly identify the information that has not been adjusted, state that it has been presented on a different basis andexplain that basis.

Amendments toLKAS 19 Employee Benefits

Actuarial assumptions: salaries, benefits and medical costs

…

92Some defined benefit plans require employees or third parties to contribute to the cost of the plan. Contributions byemployees reduce the cost of the benefits to the entity. An entity considers whether third-party contributions reducethe cost of the benefits to the entity, or are a reimbursement right as described in paragraph 116. Contributions byemployees or third parties are either set out in the formal terms of the plan (or arise from a constructive obligation thatgoes beyond those terms), or are discretionary. Discretionary contributions by employees or third parties reduceservice cost upon payment of these contributions to the plan.

93Contributions from employees or third parties set out in the formal terms of the plan either reduce service cost (if theyare linked to service), or reduce affect remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (if they are not linkedto service). An example of contributions that are not linked to service is when (eg if the contributions are required toreduce a deficit arising from losses on plan assets or from actuarial losses). If cContributions from employees or thirdparties are linked to in respect of service, those contributions reduce the service cost as follows:are attributed to

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201514A

period of service as a negative benefit in accordance with paragraph 70 (ie the net benefit is attributed in accordancewith that paragraph).

(a) if the amount of the contributions is dependent on the number of years of service, an entity shall attribute the

contributions to periods of service using the same attribution method required by paragraph 70 for the grossbenefit (ie either using the plan’s contribution formula or on a straight-line basis); or

(b) if the amount of the contributions is independent of the number of years of service, the entity is permitted to

recognise such contributions as a reduction of the service cost in the period in which the related service isrendered. Examples of contributions that are independent of the number of years of service include those thatare a fixed percentage of the employee’s salary, a fixed amount throughout the service period or dependent onthe employee’s age.

Paragraph A1 provides related application guidance.

94For contributions from employees or third parties that are attributed to periods of service in accordance with paragraph93(a), cChanges in employee or third-party the contributions in respect of service result in:

(a) current and past service cost (if those changes in employee contributions are not set out in the formal terms ofa plan and do not arise from a constructive obligation); or

(b) actuarial gains and losses (if those changes in employee contributions are set out in the formal terms of a plan,or arise from a constructive obligation).

…

Transition and effective date

…

175Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions (Amendments to LKAS 19), issued in 2014, amended paragraphs93–94. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014 retrospectivelyin accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Earlier applicationis permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.201515A

Appendix AApplication Guidance

This appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS. It describes the application of paragraphs 92-93 and has the sameauthority as the other parts of the SLFRS.

A1The accounting requirements for contributions from employees or third parties are illustrated in the diagram below.

Contribution from employees or third parties

Set out in the formal terms of the plan (or arise from a constructiveDiscretionaryobligation that goes beyond those terms)

Linked to serviceNot linked to service (for example,reduce a deficit)

Dependent on the numberIndependent of the numberof years of servicesof years of service

(1)

Reduce service cost byReduce service cost in theAfterReduce service costbeing attributed to periodsperiod in which the relatedremeasurementsupon payment to theof serviceservice is rendered(paragraph 93)plan(paragraph 93(a))(paragraph 93(b))(paragraph 92)

(1) This dotted arrow means that an entity is permitted to choose either accounting.

02–75

–––>

–––>

–––––>

–––––>

–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––>

–––––––––––––––––>

–––>

–––>

–––––––>

- - - - - - - - - -- - - - -

- -- - - - >

- - - >

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.