==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1896$4 - 2015 ckjdß ui 05 jeks i÷od - 2015'01'05

No.1896/4 - MONDAY JANUARY 05, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province as follows :-

1. This statute may be cited as the “Appropriation Statute No. 04 of 2014.”

2.(1) Without prejudice to any other law authorizing any expenditure of the Provincial Council

of the Northern Province which it is estimated to be Rupees Seventeen ThousandEight Hundred and Fifty Eight Million Six Hundred and Ninety Thousand only(Rs.17, 858,690,000) for the expenditure during the financial year 2015 commencing fromJanuary 1st, 2015 and ending on December 31st 2015 shall be met.

(a) from the proceeds of grants authorized by the Central Government,

and

(b) Out of Provincial Fund or any other funds or monies, at the disposal of the Provincial

Council of the Northern Province may be expended as specified in the First Scheduleto this statute.

(II) The Expenditure incurred by the Provincial Council of the Northern Province during the

financial year 2015 on each activity specified in Column 1 of the Second Schedule to thisstatute shall be paid out of the receipts of the Provincial Council of the Northern Province,for such activity during that financial year, however such expenditure shall not exceed thelimits specified in the corresponding entry in that Schedule.

3. The debit balance, outstanding at the end of the Financial Year 2015 of any activity specified

in the Second Schedule to this statute shall not exceed the maximum limits specified in the

Short Title

Appropriation forfinancial year 2015

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Appropriation Statute No. 04 of 2014

A Statute to provide for the service of the Financial Year 2015, to authorize to make financial provision in respect of certainactivities of the Provincial Council of the Northern Province during the Financial Year, to enable the payment, by way ofadvances out of the Provincial Fund or any other fund or monies, of or at the disposal of the Provincial Council of theNorthern Province, of monies required during the financial year for expenditure on such activities, to provide for the refundof such monies to the Provincial Fund and to make provision for matters connected with or incidental thereto.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.20152A

corresponding entry of that activity and the end of that financial year shall not exceed themaximum limits specified in the corresponding entry.

4. (I) any monies which by virtue of the provisions of the First Schedule to this Statute have

been allocated to recurrent expenditure under any programme appearing under any Headspecified in that Schedule and not have been expended or likely to be not expended maybe transferred to the capital expenditure, within that programme or to the allocation ofrecurrent expenditure or capital expenditure under any programme within that Head, byorder of the Chief Secretary or any officer authorized by him.

(II) Monies allocated to capital expenditure under any Head specified in the First Schedule to

this Statute shall be transferred to any other Head subject to approval granted by theProvincial Council of the Northern Province.

5. Where the Chief Minister is satisfied :

(I) that receipts from taxes and other sources will be less than the amounts anticipated to

meet authorized expenditure,

or

(II) that amount originally appropriated for a particular purpose or purposes are no longer

required, he may authorize the Chief Secretary of the Northern Province to withdraw inwhole or in part any amount previously released for expenditure under the authority of awarrant issued by him from the Provincial Fund or, from any other fund or monies, of or atthe disposal of The Provincial Council of the Northern Province.

6. The Chief Minister may on or before March 31st, 2016 by order, vary or alter

(I) any of the maximum limits specified in the Second Schedule to this Statute.

(II) the minimum limits specified the Second Schedule to this Statute

7. Provincial Council of the Northern Province may by resolution, amend the Second Schedule

to this Statute by adding an activity to the appropriate column,

(I) All or any of the maximum limits and

(II) The minimum limits relating to such activity

8. Under the Office of the Deputy Chief Secretary - Finance Project No: 04 of Financial

Management Programme (421-08-04) may be transferred to any Programme on any Head ofFirst Schedule by the Chief Secretary Consequently, such transfers have to be submitted tothe Provincial Council as supplementary estimates for approval.

9. If there is any discrepancy between Tamil, Sinhala and English version the Tamil version will

prevail.

Power to transferunexpended moniesallocated torecurrentexpenditure toanother allocationwithin the sameprogramme underthe same head ofexpenditure

Power of theProvincial Councilto transfer capitalexpenditure toother heads.

Power of ChiefMinister to limitpreviouslyauthorizedexpenditure

Power of ChiefMinister to vary themaximum andminimum limitsspecified in thesecond schedule tothis statute

Power of ProvincialCouncil to amendthe second schedule

Tamil text toprevail in event ofinconsistency

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

C. V. KANDIYA SIVAGNANAM,B. JEYAHARAN,Chairman,Asst. Secretary,Northern Provincial Council.Assembly Secretariat,

Northern Province.01- 535