==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2013$31 - 2017 wfm%a,a ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'04'07No. 2013/31 - FRIDAY, APRIL 07, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A G 25389 — 32 (04/2017)

MINUTE OF THE ENGINEERING ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE OF THE IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT

FOLLOWING Minute of Engineering Assistants’ Service of the Irrigation Department is hereby substituted withoutprejudice to any action taken or purported to be taken in terms of the Minute of the Technical Assistants’ Service of theIrrigation Department published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri LankaNo. 1069/19 dated 05/03/1999 and amendments made to the same from time to time.

By order of Public Service Commission,

H. M. GAMINI SENEVIRATHNE,Secretary,Public Service Commission.06th April, 2017.

01. Effective Date:

This Service Minute shall be effective from the date of 11.02.2016

02. Appointing Authority :

Apprentice Grades III, II, I: Director General of Irrigation with delegated power by the Public Service Commission.

Special Grade: Public Service Commission

03. Service Category / Service Categories:

Supervisory Management Assistant- Non-Technological/ Technological (Grades III, II and I)

Management Assistant: Supra Class (Special Grade)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20172A

04. Role:

I.A service category which performs the activities in the nature of multitasking including personnel management,financial custody and money transactions, supervision and operations which are supportive to the role of theexecutive of the institutions, and which were specifically assigned by the executive.

II.A service category entrusted with functions of Administration/ Personnel Management, Financial Management andMaterial Management so as to be supplementary/ supportive to functions of senior executives and executiveofficers specifically recruiting through an internal process limiting to the approved cadre.

05. Salary (Salary code number, Salary scale, Initial salary step) :

5.1Salary Code Numbers:

MN 3- 2006 A (Grades III, II, I)

MN 7- 2006 A (Special Grade)

5.2Salary Scale (monthly):

Grades III, II, I: Rs. 15,005-4x180-6x240-11x320-20x360-27, 885/=

Special Grade:Rs. 20,030-11x365-18,500-33,045/=

5.3Initial salary step applicable to grading system

GradeInitial salary stepInitial salary point

IIIStep 01Rs. 15,005.00

IIStep 12Rs. 17,485.00

IStep 23Rs. 21,045.00

SpecialStep 4Rs. 21,125.00

5.4Allowance for apprentices during the training period.

As per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (II), allowances are paid during the training period asfollows.

Rs. 12, 920/= per month for the first year.

Rs. 13,040/= per month for the second year.

Rs. 13,160/= per month for the third year.

06. Posts belonging to the service:

6.1Approved designations, approved cadre and duties assigned to post.

Following duties are assigned subject to changes made by the instructions in the circulars issued fromtime to time by the Director General as required by the exigency of service.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20173A

ApprovedApprovedApprovedDutiesdesignationGradenumberof posts

EngineeringIII, II, I636Following duties assigned under the supervision of an irrigationengineer as per the regulations of the department:Preliminaryinvestigations for effective operational work of constructions/improvements/ rehabilitation/ operation and maintenance ofnew or ongoing gravity/ lift/ micro irrigation, flood-water andsalt-water prevention schemes, and productive watercontrolling, Surveying and leveling, according to fullinvestigations, Preparing limited scale drafts and civilengineering designs, preparing relevant plans, quantitysurveying, rate analysis and preparing estimates, Preparing ofprocurement documents according to the standardspecifications, supervision of work, quality control of theorganization, Management of machinery, relevant fuel, materials,at field work sites and relevant stores management accounting.Development and training of institutional organization as thebusiness manager of irrigation schemes and officer inchargeof fields/units supervising the work of work administrators,technical assistants, field assistants, and labourers. Field workand assigned duties of other engineering sub professionsrelated to the duties assigned to the department by the IrrigationOrdinance and other acts.

Divisionalspecial65According to powers vested by Departmental circulars andFinancial circulars issued from time to time by the DirectorGeneral of Irrigation, checking, the inventories, order registers,measurement of work completed, monthly progress costs andrunning charts of all vehicles related to making payments underRegional Engineer’s supervision. Certification of payments,making all cash payments, signing cheque as second signatory;maintaining cash imprest register, payment utility register; andassisting the Irrigation Engineer in charge, the Division/Resident Engineer in the administration of stores, labourers,vehicles and offices and covering such duties.

6.2Combined number of Officers: Engineering Assistants Grades III, II and I- 636

For the purpose of grade promotions, Grades III, II and I shall be treated as belonging to the combinednumber of officers.

6.3Nature of the post/posts: The post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions will have to be made tothe Widows’/ Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.

Assistant

Assistant

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20174A

07. Method of Recruitment:

7.1Ratio of Recruitment

StreamPercentageRatio (As per the approved number of posts)

MaleFemale

Open90%75%25%

Limited10%75%25%

7.2Recruitment under open stream

7.2.1Recruitment Grade

7.2.1.1. Qualifications for recruitment of apprentices (for a training of three years)

Educational Qualifications

I.Shall have passed G.C. E (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects with creditpasses for Sinhala/Tamil, English Language, Mathematics and Science at one sitting,and

II.Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) examination with subjects relevant to thefields of Physics, Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Chemistry as per the oldsyllabus at one sitting,

Or

Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) Examination with subjects relevant to thefields of Advanced Mathematics or Combined Mathematics and Chemistry as per thenew syllabus at one sitting,

Vocational Qualifications- Not applicable

7.2.1.2Grade III (Direct Recruitment)

(a).Educational Qualifications

I.Shall have passed G.C. E (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects (06) with creditpasses for Sinhala/Tamil, English Language, Mathematics, Science and one other subjectat one sitting,

and

II.Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) examination with subjects relevant to thefields of Physics, Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Chemistry as per the oldsyllabus at one sitting,

or

Shall have passed G.C.E (Advanced Level) examination with subjects relevant to thefields of Advanced Mathematics or Combined Mathematics and Chemistry as per thenew syllabus at one sitting.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20175A

(b).Vocational Qualifications

I.Having obtained the certificate upon following the Diploma in Irrigation Engineeringat an Irrigation Training Institute at Galgamuwa, Kotmale,

or

II.Having obtained the certificate upon following the National Diploma in Technology(Civil Engineering) at the University of Moratuwa, Katubedda,

or

III. Having followed the Higher National Diploma in Engineering Science (Civil Engineering)conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of Advance Technologies, Mattakkuliya,

or

IV.Having obtained the certificate upon following the National Diploma in EngineeringScience (Civil- Engineering) conducted by the Institute of Engineering Technologies,Katunayake,

or

V.Having obtained the certificate upon following the Diploma in Technology (Civil-Engineering) conducted by the Open University,

or

VI. Having obtained the certificate upon following a course similar to any courses aboverecognized by the University Grants Commission or the Commission of Tertiary Education.

These courses shall be of NVQ level 6.

Note:

I.At the instances where recruitments are made through both direct recruitments to thegrade III and recruitments to training Grade, recruitments shall be made first to grade IIIwhich is the recruitment grade.II.If the number of candidates who become qualified to Grade III which is the recruitmentgrade is not sufficient, (the candidates who fulfilled the qualifications as per 7.2.1.1.) willbe recruited as apprentices for remaining vacancies.

7.2.2 Physical fitness

Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of thepost.

7.2.3 Other

I.Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.

II.Shall be of excellent character.

III.Candidates are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the competitiveexamination for the recruitment to the service, only if they have satisfied all thequalifications and the prescribed age limit in each and every aspect as at the dateprescribed in the notification for calling applications.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20176A

7.2.4Age:

7.2.4.1 Minimum age limit: 18 years

7.2.4.2 Maximum age limit: 30 years

7.2.5Method of Recruitment

Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written competitive examination and a general interview.Qualified candidates shall be selected by calling for a general interview, a number of candidates equivalentto the number of recruitments expected to be made on the order of merit, determined on the aggregate ofmarks secured at the examination by the candidates who have passed the written examination.

7.2.5.1 Written Test

(Syllabus is mentioned in schedule 01.)

SubjectsMaximum marksPass mark

Intelligence Test10040%

Technological Question Paper10040%

7.2.5.1.1 Conducting Authority: By an institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

7.2.5.2Professional Test: Not applicable.

7.2.5.3Structured Interview: Not applicable.

7.2.5.4General Interview: (Marks are not allocated.)

Objectives to be achieved: For the verification of qualifications and certificates ofapplicants.

7.2.5.4.1 Appointing Authority of the general interview board: Director General ofIrrigation

7.2.6Method of calling applications:

Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the Government Gazette by publishingnotices in the web Sites.

7.3Recruitment under limited stream

7.3.1Recruitment grade

7.3.1.1Qualifications for the recruitment of apprentices (for a training of 2 years)

(a)Educational Qualifications:

I.Shall have passed G.C.E (Ordinary Level) Examination in six subjects (06) with creditpasses for Sinhala/ Tamil, English Language, Mathematics and Science within one sitting.(b)Professional Qualifications:

Having obtained the relevant certificate of NVQ level 4 (NCT-Civil)upon passing the three yearpart-time National Certificate course in Technology (Civil) from a technical college recognized bythe Commission of Tertiary and Vocational Education.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20177A

(c).Experience:

Being an officer in the post of technical assistant of Management Assistant- Technologicalservice category with at least a period of 10 years of permanent service.

7.3.2Physical fitness:

Shall have the physical fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the duties of the post.

7.3.3Other:

I.Post shall have been confirmed in the post.

II.Shall be a departmental employee who has completed at least an active satisfactoryservice period of 05 years in a field relevant to the post.

III. Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of preceding 05 years.

IV.Officers are deemed to have possessed qualifications to sit the written test for therecruitment to the service only if the officer has satisfied all the qualifications in each andevery aspect, as at the date prescribing in the notification for calling applications.

V.Shall not be subjected to any disciplinary punishment except for a warning in preceding05 years.

7.3.4Age:

7.3.4.1Minimum age limit: Not applicable

7.3.4.2Maximum age limit: 45 years

7.3.5Method of Recruitment:

Recruitments shall be made on the results of a written examination and a structured interview. Qualifiedcandidates shall be selected by subjecting to a structured interview, a number of candidates twice thenumber of recruitments expected to be made on the order of merit determined on the total/ aggregate marksof the candidates who have passed the written examination.

7.3.5.1Written test

(Syllabus is mentioned in schedule 03.)

SubjectsMaximum marksPass mark

Intelligence Test10040Technological Question Paper10040

7.3.5.1.1 Conducting Authority: By an institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

7.3.5.2Trade test: Not applicable

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20178A

7.3.5.3 Structured Interview: Qualified candidates are selected on the order of merit given by checking thequalifications and certificates of applicants.

Main topics which marks are givenMaximum marksMinimum marks considered for selection

Additional educational35qualificationsAdditional vocational25qualificationsAdditional experience25Other qualifications10Merit shown at the interview5Total100

Note:

I.Within the maximum amount of marks for main topics for which marks shall be given asindicated in the above table, a detailed marking scheme for each structured interview shall beapproved by the appointing authority.

II.Recruitments to the posts are made on the number of vacancies and the order of meritdetermined on the aggregate of marks secured at the structured interview.

7.3.5.3.1 Appointing authority of the structured interview board: Director General of Irrigation

7.3.5.4General Interview: Not applicable

7.3.6Method of calling applications:

Applications shall be called by publishing a notice in the Government Gazette or publishing public noticesor notices in the website.

7.4 Recruitment under the order of merit: Not applicable

08. Efficiency Bar :

8.1

Which efficiency barNumber of years before which theNature of the Efficiency BarEfficiency Bar should be passedWritten/ Trade Test/Certificate course/Other

1st Efficiency BarBefore lapse of three (03) yearsA written test (Schedule 04)from recruitment to Grade III2nd Efficiency BarBefore lapse of three (03) yearsA written test (Schedule 05)from promotion to Grade II3rd Efficiency BarBefore lapse of five (05) yearsfrom promotion to Grade IA written test (Schedule 06)

Not applicable

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.20179A

Note:

a)Those who have passed the compete Junior Technical Examination conducted by the Director General of Irrigationmentioned in the service minute and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1069/19 dated 05/03/1999 areconsidered as having passed the first efficiency bar.

b)Those who have passed the part I and II of the first half and subject B of the part II of the second half of the SeniorTechnical examination conducted by the Director General of Irrigation stated in the service minute published in theGazette Extraordinary No. 1069/19 dated 05/03/1999 are considered as having passed the second efficiency bar.

c)Those who have passed the part I and II of the first half and the subjects A and B of the part II of the second half ofthe Senior Technical examination conducted by the Director General of Irrigation stated in the service minutepublished in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1069/19 and dated 05/03/1999 are considered as having passed the thirdefficiency bar.

d)Officers who have earned five salary increments upon completing an active and satisfactory service period afterpromoting to the Grade I by the effective date of this service minute are exempted from satisfying the requirement ofpassing the third efficiency bar examination.

Time frame of the Efficiency Bar Examination :twice a year

8.2Authority for conducting the tests related to efficiency bars :

First efficiency bar

Second efficiency bar

Third efficiency bar

9. Language Proficiency :

9.1.

LanguageProficiency to be satisfied

Official LanguageOfficers who have been recruited to service in a language other thanan official language, shall acquire relevant proficiency in officiallanguage within the probation period.

Other official languageProficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per PublicAdministration Circular 01/2014 and other circulars issuedconsequently.

10. Grade promotions:

10.1Promotion from Grade III to Grade II

10.1.1On average performance

10.1.1.1Qualifications to be satisfied

I.Shall have been confirmed in the appointment.

II.Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years inGrade III of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments by the date qualified forpromotion.

}

By an institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201710A

III. Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10)years preceding the date of promotions as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.

IV. Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the dateof promotion.

V.Shall have obtained the prescribed level of proficiency in other official language.

VI. Shall have passed the first Efficiency Bar examination on due date.

10.1.1.2Method of Promotion

When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authorityas per the specimen form, promotion to Grade II shall be made by the Appointing Authority afterverification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.

10.2Promotion from Grade II to Grade I

10.2.1On average performance

10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied

I.Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years inGrade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments

II.Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the date ofpromotion.

III.Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of ten (10) yearspreceding the date of promotions as per the approved performance appraisal procedure.

IV.Shall have passed the second Efficiency Bar examination on due date.

10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion

When officers who have satisfied the qualifications make a request to the Appointing Authorityas per the specimen form, promotion to Grade I shall be made by the Appointing Authority afterverification of qualifications to be effective from the qualifying date.

10.3Promotion from grade I to Special Grade

10.3.1On average performance

10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied

I.Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least six(06) years in Grade I of the service category and earned all six (06) salaryincrements

II.Have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately precedingthe date of promotion.

III.Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during theperiod of six (06) years preceding the date of promotions as per the approvedperformance appraisal procedure.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201711A

IV.Shall have passed the third Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.

V.Shall have passed the senior technological examination in subjects I, IIcategories of first half and the part (a) and (b) of category II of the secondhalf.

10.3.1.2Method of Promotion

When vacancies occurred in the special Grade, on the order of the PublicService Commission, applications are called by the Director General of Irrigationfrom engineers who have completed above qualifications and are prompted tothe special grade on the marks obtained in an interview based on the seniorityform the date vacancies appeared and the rank.

10.4Remark

In promotion according to average level performance the date of promotion of officers who do not passthe efficiency bar on the due date shall be delayed by a period equal to the period delayed passing ofefficiency bar.

11. Appointment to Posts:

11.1Qualifications

PostQualificationsmanner of selection

Divisional AssistantBeing an officer in the Special GradeAccording to the seniority

12. Conditions applicable to the service

Recruitment to grade III at the end of the training period

I.Applicants recruited as apprentices under open stream on successful completion of three year full timecourse namely the two year theoretical and one year practical conducted by Irrigation Training Institute atGalgamuwa, Kotmale and Colombo under the ministry in charge of the subject of Irrigation/ Department ofIrrigation, will be eligible to receive irrigation engineering diploma certificate offered by the GalgamuwaIrrigation Training Institute of the Department of Irrigation. For apprentices enrolled under limited stream,it is sufficient to offer the above certificate on passing the two year theoretical and practical training givenunder the supervision of the Director of the Galgamuwa Irrigation Training Institute as directed by theDirector General of Irrigation. In giving one year practical training the training will be structured onrequirements and available facilities as the case may be. This course will take effect according to a semestersystem and its overall merit will be determined on the average of results of examination held at the end ofeach semester. On obtaining this certificate they will be recruited to Grade III of the Engineering Assistants’Service.

Note: The examination which will be conducted at the end of the training for applicants, recruited anapprentices under limited stream should be on par with the level of examination applicable to training ofapplicants who will be enrolled under open stream.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201712A

II.Irrigation Engineer Assistant Apprentices who may fail in prescribed examination shall have the opportunityto have their training extended by not more than six months at the discretion of the Director General ofIrrigation, if not their failure is due to negligence of work, lack of interest or poor attendance. Thoseengineering assistant apprentices who failed in prescribed examination shall pass the final examination andall other tests which will be considered at the end of the extended training period. If the apprentices whoapplied under the open stream failed once again their service shall be terminated. During the extended trainingperiod the apprentices are not granted their allowance.

III. During the period of training the engineering assistants apprentices shall submit a satisfactory training recordfor participating at least 80% of lectures and practical lessons. Any engineering assistant apprentice who doesnot have the minimum attendance and satisfactory service record shall not be allowed to appear for theprescribed examination and his training shall also be terminated.

IV.Apprentices selected under limited stream shall remain further on their previous salary scale during the trainingperiod. In addition to the salary they shall be paid an annual allowance equivalent to the initial salary incrementof the Engineering Assistants Service until they pass the examination at the end of training course. An officerwho follows the training period successfully shall be placed in the second year on the higher salary step of thesalary scale which he received so far. The allowance shall be paid continuously. After passing the examinationon successful completion of the training, salary conversion shall be made in accordance with the provision ofthe establishment code revised by the Public Administration Circular No. 7/2000 dated 02/03/2000.

V.Engineering Assistants who are directly enrolled to the Engineering Assistants Grade III shall be given sixmonth in-service Training as directed by the Irrigation Department. This includes theoretical and practicaltraining. Thereafter, on the skills, they show in passing the theoretical and practical examination to be held, theirseniority shall be decided.

General matters

The number of persons to be recruited shall be decided by the Director General of Irrigation on the number ofexisting vacancies in the Engineering Assistants’ Service. Apprentices enrolled shall enter into an agreementwith Director General of Irrigation before they commence the training.

13. Interpretations and definitions

I.The term “Gazette” shall mean the gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

II.The term “Service Minute” shall mean the minute of the Service Minute of the Engineering Assistants at theIrrigation Department.

III. The term “effective date” shall mean the date on which this minute comes into effect.

IV.“Service” shall mean the Engineering Assistants’ Service at the Irrigation Department.

V.“Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period of Active served by the officer engaged in the dutiesassigned to him and drawing the salary attached to his post. All the periods on No Pay other than periods whichare specifically stated by the cabinet as a principal shall not be counted as an active period of service.

14. Absorption to the grade system

14.1 This service minute shall only be applied to the officers who are in the service as at the effective date. Allthe officers who receive salaries under salary scale MN-03-2006-A provided by the Public AdministrationCircular No. 06/2006 and circulars issued consequently on prescribed dates shall be absorbed in thefollowing subjected to the provisions in Section 4.4, Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

14.2 Period of service shall be calculated based on the date of appointment to each post or grade. However, thedate of salary increment of the relevant officer shall not be changed due to this absorption and that shall beapplied without any change as the increment date existed before the absorption. Further, the officer shallnot be placed on the next higher salary step as per the section 4.4, chapter VII of the Establishments Codedue to becoming the salary step received by the relevant officer corresponding to new salary step.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201713A

14.3Absorption to the Grade III of the serviceOfficers in grade II of class II of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.14.4Absorption to the grade II of the serviceOfficers in Grade I of Class II of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.14.5Absorption to the Grade I of the serviceOfficers in class I of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.14.6Absorption to the Special Grade of the serviceOfficers in Special Class of the service minute as at the effective date of this service minute.

15. Interim provisions :

The interim provisions shall be effective up to three years from the effective date of this service minute. When theofficers, who are absorbed to grade III and II as at the effective date of this service minute, are promoted, the serviceminute of Technical Service at the Irrigation Department published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1069/19 and dated05/03/1999 shall be made applicable during the interim period. (These interim provisions shall be applicable for theofficers recruited under service minute of Technical Service at the Irrigation Department published in the GazetteExtraordinary No. 1069/19 and dated 05/03/1999 which was in effect before the implementation of the new serviceminute. Other conditions shall be as per the new service minute.)

16. Other :

16.1.1General conditions in Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission published in theGazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20/02/2009 and the provisions of the EstablishmentsCode shall be applicable for each appointment.

16.1.2Matters not provided for in the Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.

16.1.3In case of an inconsistency between texts in Sinhala, Tamil and English versions, the Sinhalaversion shall prevail.

Schedule 01

1.Name of the examination- Open competitive examination for the recruitment of apprentices to the EngineeringAssistants’ Service.

2.Particulars of the Examination- (A question paper with multiple choice questions.)

Question paperTimeTotal marksPass marks

Intelligence Test1 hour10040Technological question paper2 hours10040

3.Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

4.Syllabus for the examination

Question paperSyllabus

Intelligence TestKnowledge in logical and analytical thinking, decision making abilityand making judgments are assessed.

Technological question paperKnowledge in subject such as basic algebra, coordinate geometry,Calculus, trigonometry and hydrostatics, statics, electricity, mechanics,heat, statistics is assessed.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201714A

Schedule 02

1.Name of the examination- Open competitive examination for the recruitment to the Engineering Assistants’Grade III

2.Particulars of the Examination- (A question paper with multiple choice questions.)

Question paperTimeTotal marksPass marks

Intelligence Test1 hour10040

3.Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

4.Syllabus for the examination

Question paperSyllabus

Intelligence TestKnowledge in logical and analytical thinking, decisionmaking ability and making judgments are assessed.

Schedule 03

1.Name of the examination- Limited competitive examination for the recruitment to the Engineering Assistants’Service as apprentices.

2.Particulars of the Examination- (A question paper with multiple choice questions.)

Question paperTimeTotal marksPass marks

Intelligence Test1 hour10040Technological question paper2 hours10040

3.Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

4.Syllabus for the examination

Question paperSyllabus

Intelligence TestKnowledge in Logical and analytical thinking, decisionmaking ability and making judgments are assessed.Technological question paperKnowledge in subject such as basic algebra, coordinategeometry, calculus, trigonometry and hydrostatics, statics,electricity, mechanics, heat, statistics is assessed.

Schedule 04

1.Name of the examination- First efficiency bar examination in the post of Engineering Assistant.

2.Particulars of the Examination-

Question paperTimeTotal marksPass marks

Surveying and leveling(Written test)03 hours10040Quantity Surveying (Written test)03 hours10040

(Mathematics, Physics)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201715A

Note: Engineering Assistants those who have passed the junior technical examination are also deemed tohave passed the first efficiency bar.

3.Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

4.Time frame of the examination- twice a year

5.Syllabus for the Examination

Question paperSyllabus

Measuring and leveling (Written test)Fundamentals in SurveyingPlotting of a traverse survey plan with the aid of TheodoliteTacheometric surveyBaseline surveyUse of different types of levels and its applicationsAdjustments of a leveling instrumentDrawing longitudinal sections and cross sectionsContour surveyVolume calculations

Quantity Surveying (Written test)For a structural part,

1.Preparing a quantity sheet using standard specifications2.Preparation of a bar schedule3.Preparation of an estimate

Schedule 05

1.Name of the examination- Second efficiency bar examination in the post of Engineering Assistant.

2.Particulars of the Examination-

Question paperTimeTotal marksPass marks

Financial Regulations3 hours10040Establishment code and3 hours10040Departmental regulations

Note: In order to pass the examination, a mark which is not less than at least 40% should be obtained for eachsubject. Engineering Assistants those who have passed the first and second sections of the first half andsubjects in (a) of the second section of the second half of the senior technical examination are also deemed tohave passed the second efficiency bar.

3.Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

4.Time frame of the examination- twice a year

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201716A

5.Syllabus for the examination

Question paperSyllabus

(1)Consolidated fund(2)Annual Estimates(3)Variations of Annual Estimates(4)Chief Accountants/Accountants, Revenue Accounting, OfficersAuthorizing payments, approval, certification, delegation ofauthority, losses and waivers, custody of Public Funds,procedure relating to payments and receipts, procedure relatingto dishonored cheques(5)Security of Public funds, Board of Survey, Overdrafts, BankAccounts(6)Work and Services- Construction Departments(7)Procedure relating to verification of stores, Acceptance andProcuring supply(8)Contracts- Variations from Tender Procedure (Forced Accounts)

I.Office Administration and Establishment Code Sections IVand VII of the Procedural Rules of the Public ServiceCommissionFollowing sections of the Establishments Code

VII-Overtime, Holiday and Holiday Pay and AllowancesXII-Railway WarrantsXIV-Travel on duty within the IslandXIX-Government QuartersXXVIII-Administration Procedures and PracticesXXX-Right of Government or its officersXLVII-General Conduct and Discipline

II.Departmental Provisions

Part VI of Irrigation Ordinance- 8,9,10,14 and other provisions andProvisions of District Agricultural Committee

Provisions on Farmer Organizations of the Agrarian Development Act,Amended Irrigation Ordinance No. 13 of 1994

General understanding on departmental activities including floodprotection act and other related ordinances.

Schedule 06

1.Name of the examination- Third efficiency bar examination in the post of Engineering Assistant.

2.Particulars of the Examination-

Question paperTimeTotal marksPass marks

Project Management3 hours10040Irrigation Project Planning3 hours10040

Financial regulations

Establishments Code andDepartmental Regulations

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'04'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.04.201717A

Note: In order to pass the examination, a mark which is not less than at least 50% should be obtained foreach subject. Engineering Assistants those who have passed the sections I and II of the first half and subjects(a) and (b) of the section II of the second half of the senior technical examination are also deemed to havepassed the third efficiency bar.

3.Authority for conducting the examination- By an Institute approved by the Director General of Irrigation

4.Time frame of the examination- twice a year

5.Syllabus for the examination

Question paperSyllabus

Project ManagementAssessing the knowledge in the field of management about financial,machinery and equipment, labour and construction materials in relatedto Irrigation projects.Irrigation Project PlanningAssessing the basic design knowledge on all the sections in relatedto Irrigation projects (Embankments, buildings, roads, channels,sluices, spillways, anicuts, gates, etc.)

Schedule 07

Interview for the promotion to the special grade of the Engineering Assistants’ Service

Allocation of marks is as below.

1.Seniority60 marks

(10 marks per each year lapsed upon completing an active andsatisfactory service period of 06 years after being promoted toGrade I of the Engineering Assistants’ Service at the IrrigationDepartment.)

2.Knowledge and understanding about the field30 marks

Investigation-6 marks

Construction-6 marks

Water management-6 marks

Business management-6 marks

Operation and maintenance-6 marks

3.Performance appraisal (of preceding five years)10 marks

Excellent-10 marks

Above average-08 marks

Satisfactory-06 marks

Unsatisfactory-00 marks

04- 666

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.