==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014

w;s úfYI

wxl 1890$35 - 2014 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'11'28

No.1890/35 - FRIDAY NOVEMBER 28, 2014

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Co-operative Employees’ Pension Schemes Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the

Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council

REGULATIONS made by Me, the Chief Minister of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council and Minister in charge of thesubjects of Law and Order, Finance and Planning, Local Government, Health and Indigenous Medicine, Women Affairs,Co-operatives, Trade and Food, Passenger Transport and Estate Welfare, Environment, News, Housing and Constructionunder Section 24 of the Co-operative Employees' Pension Scheme Statute, No. 02 of 2014 of the said Provincial Council.

MAHEEPALA HERATH, Chief Minister and Minister in charge of the subjects of Law and Order,Finance and Planning, Local Government, Health and Indigenous Medicine,

Women Affairs, Co-operatives, Trade and Food, Passenger Transport and

Estate Welfare, Enviornment, News, Housing andConstruction of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

At Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,11th November, 2014.

REGULATIONS

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1. These regulations shall be referred to as the regulations of the Co-operative Employees' PensionScheme Statute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

2. I. Any person who is employed in any Co-operative Society or Union registered under the

Co-operative Act, No. 05 of 1972 as amended by Acts, No. 32 of 1983 and No. 11 of 1992 andregistered in the Sabaragamuwa Province under the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Co-operativeStatute No. 03 of 1994 and No. 03 of 2007 and has received a permanent appointment withinthe meaning as stipulated in the co-operative employees’ service commission Act, No.12 of1972 as amended by Act No. 51 of 1992 (hereinafter referred to as the “employee”) shall beeligible to contribute to the co-operative employees’ pension scheme.

Short title.

Eligibility tocontribute.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.20142A

II. Notwithstanding anything to the Contrary in 2.1 above, the persons employed in any

co-operative society or union on the date of this co-operative employees’ pension schemestatute No. 02 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council coming into operation, whohave not received a permanent appointment as stipulated in 2.1 above shall be entitled to thebenefits of this scheme as personal to them, if they have received the approval of theSabaragamuwa Provincial Co-operative Employees’ Service Commission as personal to themfor the confirmation of service and if there are excess employees and made them permanent onthe basis of excess employees.

III. Those employees who recruited after the date of this scheme coming into operation should be

within the approved cadre and approved by the co-operative employees’ commission.

3. I. (a) Any person who has been in service on the date of this scheme coming into operation and

is entitled to join the scheme, should intimate his willingness to contribute to the pensionscheme.(b) Any person entitled to join the scheme shall for the purpose of joining the scheme complete

the application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme (hereinafter referredto as the director) shall submit it to the authorized official within the period of time prescribedby the director.(c) The period of time referred to in 3.I(b) above shall not exceed more than 06 months from the

date of the scheme coming into operation.

II. The employees who have joined or will join the permanent employment after the date of this

scheme coming into operation and prior to coming into effect of these regulations shall completethe application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme and shall submit it tothe official authorized by the director within 90 days from these regulations coming into effector from the date of appointment which ever occurs later.

III. Any people who joins the scheme after these regulations coming into effect, shall complete the

application prescribed for the purpose by the director of the scheme and shall submit it to theofficial authorized by the director within 90 days from date of recruitment to the scheme.

4. I. The authorized official shall on the receipt on an application, verify the authenticity and the

accuracy of the particulars furnished by the applicant and shall submit same together with hisrecommendation to the director within thirty (30) days of receipt of such application.II. The applicant upon whose application being approved the director, shall be deemed as the

contributor to the scheme.III. Any application to contribute to the scheme may be rejected on anyone or more of the following

grounds:-(a) If is not an employee as stipulated in Sections 2.1 and 2.11 of these regulations.(b) If is below 18 years or below 60 years of age.

(c) If the application is incomplete.(d) If furnished false particulars.

(e) If the application is not submitted within the prescribed period stipulated in the regulations.

IV.Rejection of an application shall be determined with the concurrence of the advisorycommittee of the scheme (hereinafter referred to as the advisory committee). When a decisionis taken to reject any application The director shall within 30 days intimate such decision tothe applicant concerned.

5. I. Every contributor who joins the scheme shall make an initial payment of Rs. 5000/- and a

monthly contribution equivalent to 5% of his/her monthly consolidated salary and shall authorizein writing the employer society or the union to deduct such contribution from his/her monthlysalary and remit same to the director.

To intimatewillingness andapplication

To deem as acontributor

contribution

Rejection ofapplication.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014

II. The employer society or the union or the employee shall pay to the director in full or installments

a sum of Rs. 5000/- in respect of each contributor who joins the scheme within a period of timeas required by the director. However, such period shall not exceed 6 months and the employersociety or union shall pay the scheme a monthly contribution equivalent to 2.5% of his/hermonthly salary.

III. The employer society or the union shall remit the monthly contribution deducted from the

salary of the contributor to the director on or before the last day of the following month.

IV. The co-operative societies or union, which fails to remit contributions to the director as prescribed

in 5.111 above, shall be liable to a fine as follows and such society or union shall pay such fineto the director on the date as required by the director.

Delay less than 10 days05%

Delay from 11 days to 1 month10%

Delay from 1 month to 3 months15%

Delay from 3 months to 6 months20%

Delay from 6 months to 12 months30%

Delay more than 12 months50%6. Every contributor who joins the scheme shall compulsory complete the payments of 60 monthlycontributions to the director to be entitled to the pension.

I. (a) In the case of any contributor who is above the age of 55 years on the date of coming into

operation of the pension scheme, if he fails to make the minimum contribution in 60installments, the contributor shall pay in full or in installments the balance contributionoutstanding based on his last drawn salary before he reaches 60 years of age.

(b) Provided that if any contributor is unable to pay the minimum contribution in full before he

reaches 60 years of age due to any reason, such contributor shall be entitled to pay suchcontribution in full within a maximum period of 1 year from his retirement.

(c) Any contributor who completes the payment of contribution under 6.1(a) and 6.1(b) above

shall be entitled to the pension as stipulated in table 02 of schedule A of these regulations.

II. (a) Any employee who was in service on the date of this pension statute coming into operation

and has retired on the date of these regulations coming into effect and who has contributedto the pension scheme, shall make the minimum contribution of 60 installments based on hislast drawn salary in full or in installments within a period of 01 year.

(b) Any contributor who completes the payment of contribution under 6.II(a) above, shall be

entitled to the pension as stipulated in table 2 of schedule A of these regulations.

(c) In the case of any contributor who is not more than 55 years of age on his next birthday at

the time of joining the scheme, such contributor shall make the minimum contribution asstipulated in table 01 of schedule A of these regulations and shall be entitled to a pension asgiven in column IV of that table.

7. In the case of any contributor who has retired on medical grounds,

(I) If he is more than 50 years of age at his retirement and has made the minimum contribution of

60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to a pension on reaching 60 years of age.

Contribution ofthe society orunion

Minimumcontribution andentitlement ofpension

Benefits undermedical grounds

To impose fine

Remittance ofcontribution

4 — PG 2261

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.20144A

(II) If he is less than 50 years of age at his retirement and has made a minimum contribution of

120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to a pension on reaching 60 years ofage;

(III) Provided however, that such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment

the contribution he has so far made together with the relevant interest thereon if he sowishes on the approval of the advisory committee;

(IV) The contributor shall be entitled only to receive either a pension under Section 7.I or 7.II or

a lump sum payment under Section 7.III;

(V) as for a contributor who is above the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimum

contribution of 60 installments such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension onreaching 60 years of age if he completes the payment of contribution outstanding in full orin installments within a period of time as required by the director. The period to make theoutstanding ,contribution shall be one year from the date of his reaching the age of 60 yearsor from the date on which such payment is prescribed whichever occurs earlier;

(VI) As for a contributor who is below the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimum

contribution of 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsumpayment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon on the concurrence of theadvisory committee;

(VII) If no claim is made under 7.V above, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a

lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon on the concurrenceof the advisory committee.

8.I Any contributor who resigns from the co-operative service prior to his entitlement to the

pension shall be deemed to have resigned from the scheme and on a written request madeby him to the director shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net contributionand the relevant interest thereon as determined by the director with the concurrence of theadvisory committee.

II. When any employee is temporary away from the co-operative service on no-pay leave

formerly approved for foreign employment, such period on no-pay leave shall not be countedfor the pension and no contribution shall be made for such period.

9. When the registration of any co-operative society or union has been cancelled for the purpose of

liquidation, and if the contributor has made contributions up to the date of such cancelation:-

I. if the contributor is above 50 years of age on the date of cancellation of registration of any

society or union and has made at least 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled toa pension on reaching 60 years of age;

II. if the contributor is below 50 years of age on the date of cancellation of registration of any

society or union and has made at least 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled toa pension on reaching 60 years of age;

III. provided however, that such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment

the contribution he has so far made together with the relevant interest thereon if he sowishes on the advice of the advisory committee;

IV. the contributor shall be entitled only to receive either a pension under Section 9.I or 9.II or

a lumpsum payment under Section 9.III;

Benefits tocontributor of asociety or unionof whichregistration iscancelled.

When on no-payleave

Benefits whenresigned fromservice

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014

V. as a contributor who is above the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimum

contribution of 60 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension onreaching 60 years of age if he completes the payment of contribution outstanding in full orin installments within a period of time as required by the director. The period to make theoutstanding contribution shall be one year from the date of his reaching the age of 60 yearsor from the date on which such payment is prescribed whichever occurs earlier;

VI. as for a contributor who is below the age of 50 years and has not even made the minimum

contribution of 120 installments, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsumpayment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon with the concurrence of theadvisory committee.

VII. if no claim is made under 9.V above, such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a

lumpsum payment his net contribution and the relevant interest thereon with the concurrenceof the advisory committee.

10. Every contributor shall be entitled to a death gratuity as the case may be without making any

additional contribution to the scheme.

11. In the event of the death of a contributor who possesses a period of service as mentioned in

column I of the schedule B, the dependents of such contributor shall be entitled to receive a deathgratuity as given in the column II as follows:

I. if the deceased contributor is married -

(a) a half of the death gratuity shall be paid to the widow/widower and the other half shall be

paid equally to the unemployed, unmarried children.

(b) where there are no unemployed, unmarried children, the widow / widower shall be entitled

to the whole gratuity.

(c) if the widow/widower of the contributor is not· surviving, whole gratuity shall be divided

equally among unemployed unmarried children.

II. if the deceased contributor is unmarried;

(a) the death gratuity shall be equally divided between the parents of the contributor. If either

of them only is surviving, the death gratuity shall be paid to such parent.

(b) if both parents are not surviving, the said gratuity shall be divided equal among unemployed,

unmarried of the contributor.

III.Where the minors of the contributor receive the death gratuity, such moneys shall bedeposited in a minors’ savings account in the Rural Bank/ National Savings Bank / People’sBank / Bank of Ceylon and shall be intimidated thereof to the guardians concerned and shallbe recorded. And the pass books / deposit certificate , shall be kept in safe and action shallbe taken to release them on demand Upon their reaching maturity.

IV.When irresolvable problems regarding the dependents arise, payments shall be made tothe dependents as may be determined by the director with the concurrence of the advisorycommittee.

Death gratuity

Entitlement toreceive thedeath gratuity

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.20146A

12. When the dependents of the contributor becomes entitled to the death gratuity, such legal heir

shall inform the director of the death of the contributor within 90 days from the occurrence of thedeath upon which he becomes so entitled to the gratuity.

13.In the event of the death of a contributor, the director, on the determination of the advisory

committee shall pay the net contribution of such contributor together with the interest thereon tothe dependents of the contributor as a lumpsum payment as stipulated in the regulation II.

14.any contributor who has been forfeited the benefits under Section 14.II of the statute, may submit

an appeal to the director for the revalidation of his certificate within 30 days from the date ofintimation of such forfeiture by the director.

15.I. Any contributor who is dismissed from service or is deemed as having vacated post, shall

be deemed as having resigned from the scheme and may be entitled to receive only the netcontribution as a lumpsum payments as may be determined by the director with theconcurrence of the advisory committee on a written request made by such contributor.

II. Provided however, that if such contributor has been convicted of causing damage to the

society or to the union at a legal inquiry or such legal inquiry is pending against him, theaforesaid net contribution shall be paid to him if such damage has been completely reimbursedor if it is established that no such damage has been caused to the society at the conclusionof the inquiry.

16. Any contributor who has been reinstated upon been suspended of co-operative service, shall

pay the contribution outstanding in full within a period of time as required by the director.

The date prior to which such payment to be made in full shall be intimidated to the contributor andif such contributor fails to pay the contribution outstanding before the required date, his policyshall be deemed to have invalidated.

17.I. In the event of forfeiture of benefits to any contributor under 13.1 of the statute, the director

shall tender a notice to that effect to such contributor.

II. If any contributor who has been forfeited the benefits under 17.1 above, wishes to remain in

the scheme, he may make a request to that effect to the director after settling all the damagescaused to the society by him. The request shall be made to the director within 03 monthsfrom the receipt of notice under 17.1 above.

III. In the event of allowing remaining in the scheme on a request made under 17.II above, the

contributor shall pay the contribution outstanding in full within a period of time as requiredby the director. The date prior to which such payment to be made in full shall intimated tothe contributor and if such contributor fails to pay the contribution outstanding before therequired date, his policy shall be deemed to have invalidated. However the period requiredby the director shall not exceed 06 months.

18.I. When any contributor who is above the age of 55 years formally retires from service before

he attains the age of 60 years, such contributor shall be entitled to receive a pension fromthe date on which he attains 60 years of age as given in column IV of the table 01 of theschedule A of these regulations based on the number of instalments of contribution madeat the time of his retirement.

In the case of acontributor whohas beenreinstated

In the case of acontributor whohas beenconvicted at alegal inquiry

In the case of acontributor whohas beendismissed or hasvacated post

Appeal for therevalidation ofthe certificate tobe made within30 days

Contribution ofdeceasedcontributor

Death to beinformed within90 days.

In the case of acontributor whoretires before heattains 60 yearsof age.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014

II. In lieu thereof such contributor shall be entitled to receive as a lumpsum payment his net

contribution and interest thereon as determined by the director with the concurrence of theadvisory committee on a written request made to the director to that effect by the contributor.

III. Any such contributor shall be entitled only to receive either of the pension under 18.1 or

the lumpsum payment under 18.II above.

19. When any contributor who is entitled to a pension under section 7, 9 and 18 of these regulations

dies before he attains the age of 60 years, the death gratuity computed in terms of schedule Bhereof and the lumpsum payment referred to in regulation 13 shall be paid to the party whichbecomes entitled to under Section 11 of these regulations.

20. If it is established at a legal inquiry that any contributor who is entitled to receive a lumpsum

payment under these regulations has caused damages to the society or to union, or such inquiryis pending against him, such lumpsum payment shall be paid to him if such damage has beencompletely reimbursed or if it is established that no such damage has been caused by him at theconclusion of the inquiry.

21.In the event of a death of a pensioner, if the total pension he has received up to his death is less

than the total amount of contribution he made plus the relevant interest thereon, the balanceamount may be paid as a lumpsum payment to the dependants of the deceased pensioner.

22.When contributor who is entitled to receive the accrued sum or the net contribution as a lumpsum

payment under these regulations, owes to his employer society or union any sum of money on anagreement entered into with such society or union, such accrued sum or the net contribution inwhole or any part thereof may be used with the concurrence of the advisory committee to settlesuch agreed sum in whole or any part thereof on consideration of a request to that effect made tothe director by such society or union with the consent of the contributor.

23. In the event of any problem with regard to the payment of pension/allowances/gratuity to any

contributor in any manner other than what is specified in these regulations, action shall be takenas determined by the director with the concurrence of the advisory board.

24.The director shall in addition to the policy issued to the contributor under Section 14.1 of the

statute, cause to prepare and use following specimen forms to include necessary particulars forthe purpose of regularization of administration and management of affairs of the scheme:-

I. Consent declaration form;II. Application to join the scheme;III. Authorization letter to deduct monthly contribution from the salary;

IV. Monthly contribution deduction register;

V. Notice on imposition of fines;VI. Application for death gratuity;VII. Application to withdraw the accrued sum or the net contribution;VIII.Application to amalgamate the membership;

IX. Any other forms as may be necessary to implement the scheme;

25.If any contributor who submitted his application to join the scheme through his employer society

or the union has subsequently joined any other society or union for permanent employment, suchcontributors shall intimate thereof to the director within 30 days from such joining and shall makean application on the specimen from prescribed by the director to amalgamate the membership inorder to continue the policy valid.

Amalgamationof membership

Specimen forms

To settle agreedsums from theaccrued sum orthe netcontribution

Lumpsumpayment not tobe paid if hascaused damagesin the society

In the case of acontributor whoretires before heattains 60 yrs.of age and diesbefore hereceives thepension

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.20148A

26.The director shall cause the accounts of the scheme to be kept as per accepted accountancy

principles, policies and standards.

27. I. The director shall prepare an annual estimate in relation to the expenditure involved in the

implementation of functions of this scheme and shall submit it to the advisory committee forapproval.

II. When the annual estimated provisions are not sufficient to meet the expenses, supplementary

estimates shall be prepared and submitted to the advisory committee for approval.

28.Quarterly reports of receipts and expenditure shall be prepared at the end of every quarter and the

report so prepared shall be submitted to the advisory committee within 30 days from elapse of thequarter to which such report is relevant.

29.The provincial finance regulations and procurement committee guidelines shall be strictly adhered

to when obtaining facilities and services required for the implementation of the scheme and in thecase of exceeding the limits of the head of the department, the approval of the advisory committeeshall be obtained.

30.The staff required for the operation of the scheme shall be deployed from those who are employed

in the department of co-operative development of Sabaragamuwa province at the time concernedand the director shall obtain the consent of the commissioner and registrar of co-operatives andthe recommendation of the advisory committee and there upon the approval of the provincialpublic service commission for the required staff so deployed.

31.The director shall assign duties to the staff of the scheme and delegate powers as appropriate.

32.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this regulations,

the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Assignment ofduties

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

The staff

Facilities andservices

Quarterlyreports

Annualestimates ofexpenditure

Accounts to bekept

SCHEDULE A

Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee’s pension scheme.

Table - 01

Instalments to be paid by the employees (between 18-55 years) who enroll to the pension scheme and the pensionthey are entitled to receive.

Line ILine IILine IIILine IVAge as at nextPercentage of theMinimum number ofPension which isbirthday after joiningmonthly consolidatedinstalments to beentitled to be receivedthe schemesalary to be paid as thepaidafter completion of 60monthly instalmentyears, as a percentageof the monthly salary at

the time of retirement

19550480205492792154807822546877

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.2014

23545676

24544475

25543274

26542073

27540872

28539671

29538470

30537269

31536068

32534867

33533666

34532465

35531264

36530063

37528862

38527661

39526460

40525259

41524058

42522857

43521656

44520455

45519254

46518053

47516852

48515651

49514450

50513249

51512048

52510847

5359646

5458445

5557244

Line ILine IILine IIILine IVAge as at nextPercentage of theMinimum number ofPension which isbirthday after joiningmonthly consolidatedinstalments to beentitled to be receivedthe schemesalary to be paid as thepaidafter completion of 60monthly instalmentyears, as a percentageof the monthly salary at

the time of retirement

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'11'28PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.11.201410A

Table - 02

Instalments to be paid by the employees (between 50-60 years) who enroll to the pension scheme and the pensionthey are entitled to receive.

Line ILine IILine IIILine IVLine VAge as at nextPercentage of theMinimum number ofPension which isThebirthday after joiningmonthly consolidatedinstalments to beentitled to be receivedoccasionthe schemesalary to be paid as thepaidafter completion of 60entitled to themonthly instalmentyears, as a percentagepensionof the monthly salary at

the time of retirement

From the laterdate, between thedate of completion56 to 5956040of 60 years or thedate of completionof paying minimum60 instalments

From the date ofcompletion of 016056040year after paying60 minimuminstalments.

12 - 463

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.