==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2026$32 - 2017 cQ,s ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'07'06No. 2026/32 - THURSDAY, JULY 06, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 3598 — 107 (07/2017)

SRI LANKA LAND RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ACT No. 15 OF1968 AS AMENDED BY SRI LANKA LAND RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENTCORPORATION (AMENDED) ACT No. 35 OF 2006 AND ACT No. 52 OF 1982 ANDACT No. 27 OF 1976

Order under Section 2(b) 1

BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 2(b) 1 of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and DevelopmentCorporation Act No. 15 of 1968 as amended by Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation(amended) Act No. 35 of 2006 and Act No. 52 of 1982 and Act No. 27 of 1976, I, Patali Champika Ranawaka,Minister of Megapolis and Western Development through this Order determined and declare, with the concurrence of thesubject Minister of Land that, areas described in schedules, R1 - R38 situated in Ratnapura district of the SabaragamuwaProvince to be an area of Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands for the purpose of this Act Below mentioned termsand conditions prescribed by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation have to be adhered to incarrying out any activity in this area.

PATALI CHAMPIKA RANAWAKA (M.P.),Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.

Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,17th & 18th Floors, Suhurupaya,Battaramulla,28th June 2017.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1. The written approval of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation shall be obtained forfilling or developing a portion of land located within any of these declared areas through a request made, using andapplication issued by the Corporation for that purpose.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20172A

2. The approval would be granted in terms of the Terms and Conditions recommended by the Planning Committeecomprising the officers of the Department of Agrarian Services, Urban Development Authority, Central EnvironmentAuthority and following officers of Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation ; Chief Executive Officer/General Manager, Additional General Manager, Deputy General Manager (Special Project), Deputy General Manager(Lands/Marketing), Deputy General Manager (Research and Design), Deputy General Manager (Drainage and Reclamation)Chief Legal Officer. (An Officer of the respective Local Authority, of which the land located will be called where necessary)

3. Accordingly in case where such approval is granted under any terms and conditions made by the Sri Lanka LandReclamation and Development Corporation, every individual who defauld to adhere such terms and conditions could beconvicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka land Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.

4. In case where the land proposed for development is a paddy land, the approval to be sought in terms of theformal plans and recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation on the requestof the Commissioner General of Agrarian Services.

5. In case where the land proposed for development is not a paddy land, the Local Authority concerned shallconfirm whether the recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation to beobtained for any sort of development activity related to land reclamation made within this declared area, prior to grantapproval.

6. The recommendations of the other institutions concerned have to be obtained for the respective developmentpurpose of the land proposed for development.

7. Any individual authorized by the Chief Executive Officer of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and DevelopmentCorporation for the activities stipulated in the Act, shall have the power to access the declared area and anyone whodisturb such access could be convicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Land Reclarmation and DevelopmentCorporation Act.

8. Every individual who does not adhere to the terms and conditions published through this Gazette Notificationshall be guilty under the Sri Lanka and Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.

9. The terms and conditions presently imposed and the terms and conditions that will be imposed in this connectionin the future shall be adhered to.

SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE - RATHNAPURA DISTRICT

SCHEDULE R1

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Eheliyagoda and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Eheliyagoda in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces and district boundary of Rathnapura andKegalle Districts.East: Road from the District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts (from Wilegoda) to Kiriella.South: Road from Kiriella to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces via Yatapawwa.West: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.

SCHEDULE R2

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kuruwita and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Kuruwita in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20173A

East: Road from the District Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts to Kuruwiya via Sudagala.South: Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Kuruwita to Parakaduwa via Pussella.West: Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Parakaduwa to Eheliyagoda, Road from Eheliyagoda to theDistrict Boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle Districts (Wilegoda).

SCHEDULE R3

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita and Eheliyagoda and theDivisional Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita, Kiriella and Eheliyagoda in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Provinceand bounded as follows.

North: Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Eheliyagoda to Pussella via Parakaduwa.East: Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Pussella to Kuruwita.South: Kuruganga from Kuruwita bridge to Kurugammodara Bridge (Bridge in Rathnapura-Panadura MainRoad), Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Kurugammodara Bridge to Kiriella.West: Road from Kiriella to Eheliyagoda via Hindurangala.

SCHEDULE R4

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita and Rathnapura and theMunicipal Council limit of Rathnapura and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita, Kiriella and Rathnapura inRathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Kuru Ganga from Owitagama to Kuruwita Bridge.East: Colombo - Rathnapura Main Road from Kuruwita to Kalu Ganga Bridge via Kahengama.South: Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Kuru Ganga Bridge to Kuruganmodara Bridge via Dodampe.West: Kuru Ganga from Kuruganmodara Bridge to Owitigama.

SCHEDULE R5

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita and Rathnapura and theMunicipal Council limit of Rathnapura and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kuruwita and Rathnapura in RathnapuraDistrict of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: District Boundary of Kegalle - Rathnapura Districts.East: District Boundary of Kegalle - Rathnapura Districts and Rath Ganga.South: Rath Ganga, Kalu Ganga, Rathnapura - Colombo Main Road from Godigamuwa Bridge to Rathnapura.West: Rathnapura - Colombo Main Road from Rathnapura to Kuruwita via Kosgoda and Road From Kuruwitato the District Boundary of Kegalle - Rathnapura Districts via Sudagala.

SCHEDULE R6

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kuruwita and Ayagama and theDivisional Secretary’s Division of Kiriella and Ayagama in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and boundedas follows.

North: Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provincesto Kiriella via Epitawala.East: Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Kiriella to Idangoda Road from Idangoda (from the Bridge overKalu Ganga) to Ayagama via Singhalagama.South: Road from Ayagama to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces via Gawaragiriya.West: Provincial Bounday of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.

SCHEDUL (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20174A

SCHEDULE R7

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kalawana and Ayagama and theDivisional Secretary’s Division of Kalawana and Ayagama in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province andbounded as follows.

North: Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces to Ayagama viaGawaragiriya.East: Road from Ayagama to Kukulegama North via Pimbura.South: Road from Kukulegama North to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamawa and Western Provincesvia Kukulegama South.West: Provincial Bounday of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.

SCHEDULE R8

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Nivithigala, Kalawana, Rathnapura,Pelmadulla and Ayagama and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Kiriella, Ayagama, Elapatha, Nivithigala, Kalawana,Rathnapura and Pelmadulla in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Rathnapura - Panadura Main Road from Idangoda to Rathnapura Town via Dompe, Kalu Ganga Bridge.East: Road from Rathnapura Town on Wewelkandura via Alupotha, Horangala, Pebotuwa.South: Road from Wewelkandura to Kukulegama North.West: Road from Kukulegama North to Idangoda via Ayagama, Singhalagoda.

SCHEDULE R9

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Pelmadulla and Nivithigala and theMunucipal Council limit of Rathnapura and the Divisional Secretariat Division of Elapatha, Pelmadulla and Nivithigala inRatnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Mudduwa to Rathnapura - Colombo Main Road (to Rathnapura), Rathnapura - ColomboMain Road from Rathnapura to Thiriwanaketiya via Godigamuwa.East: Road from Thiriwanaketiya to Nivithigala via Dombagammna.South: Road from Nivithigala to Horangala via Pahala Karavita.West: Road from Horangala to Mudduwa via Amuwala.

SCHEDULE R10

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Rathnapura in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Rath Ganga.East: Road from Rath Ganga to Gallella.South: Road from Gallella to Rath Ganga Bridge.West: Rath Ganga.

SCHEDULE R11

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura, Imbulpe and Balangodaand the Urban Council limit of Balangoda and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rathnapura, Imbulpe and Balangodain Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20175A

East: Road from the Provincial Boundary of the Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces to the Bridge overWalawe Ganga via Udagama, Olugantota.South: Road from the Bridge over Walawe Ganga to Gallella via Balangoda, Rassagala Alupotha.West: Road from Gallella to Rath Ganga.

SCHEDULE R12

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces.East: Belihul Oya.South: Road from Belihul Oya Bridge to Morahela via Samanala Wewa Bridge, Olugantota.West: Road from Morahela to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces via Udagama,Meddegama.

SCHEDULE R13

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.East: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road fromthe Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central Provinces (from Marangahawela) to Halpe.South: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Halpe to Belihul Oya Bridge.West: Belihul Oya.

SCHEDULE R14

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Pambahinna to Marangahawela, Provincial Boundary ofSabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.East: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.South: Mulgama Oya form the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces to Danduwankada..West: Road from Danduwankada to Pambahinna via Kumbalgama.

SCHEDULE R15

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Imbulpe and the Urban Councillimit of Imbulpe and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Imbulpe in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Provinceand bounded as follows.

North: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Samanala Wewa Bridge to Pambahinna road from Pambahinnato Kirimadehula.East: Road from Kirimaduhela to Watawala via Mulgama.South: Road from Watawala to Kirimetitenna via Bowaththa.West: Road from Kirimetithenna to Balangoda, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Balangoda toSamanalawewa Bridge via Rathmalawinna.

SCHEDUL (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20176A

SCHEDULE R16

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura, Balangoda, Weligepolaand Pelmadulla and the Urban Council limit of Balangoda and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rathnapura, Balangoda,Opanayake and Pelmadulla in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Amunuthenna to Meddekanda via RassagalaEast: Raod from Medde Kanda to Balangoda, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Balangoda to EllepolaSouth: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Ellepola to Lellopitiya via Opanayake, Pelmadulla.West: Road from Lellopitiya toAmunuthenna via Berenduwa, Bamagoda.

SCHEDULE R17

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Rathnapura and Pelmadulla andthe Urban Council limit of Rathnapura and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Rathnapura and Pelmadulla in RathnapuraDistrict of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Malwala Junction to Amunuthenna via Gallella.East: Road from Amunuthenna to Berenduwa via Banagoda.South: Road from Beranduwa to Lellopitiya, Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Lellopitiya toThiriwanaketiya.West: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Thiriwanaketiya to the Bridge over Kalu Ganga and Kalu Ganga.

SCHEDULE R18

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Pelmadulla, Atakalampanna andNivithigala and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Nivithigala, Kahawaththa and Pelmadulla in Rathnapura Districtof the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Thiriwanaketiya to Pathakada via Lellopitiya.East: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Pathakada to Pelmadulla, Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Roadfrom Pelmadulla to Nugawela.South: Road from Nugawela to Niwithigala via Watapotha.West: Road from Niwithigala to Thiriwanaketiya via Mawdella.

SCHEDULE R19

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Pelmadulla, Weligepola andAtakalampanna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Pelmadulla, Opanayaka, Weligepola, Godakawela andKahawaththa in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Pelmadulla to Uduwela via Hunuwala, Opanayake.East: Road from Udawela to Ranwala via Akarella.South: Road from Ranwala to Pallegama, Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Pallegama to Madampevia Godakawela.West: Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Madampe to Pelmadulla via Nugawela, Panawenna.

SCHEDULE R20

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Balangoda, Weligepola andAtakalampanna and the Urban Council limit of Balangoda and the Divisional Secretary’s Division of Opanayaka, Weligepola,Godakawela and Balangoda in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Rathnapura - Badulla Main Road from Udawela to Balangoda via Ellepola, Road from Balangoda toKirimetithenna.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20177A

East: Road from Kirimetithenna to Thalahena via Gangodagama, Badullegama.South: Road from Thalahena to Pallegama via Balawinna.West: Road from Pallegama to Udawela via Ranwala, Akarella.

SCHEDULE R21

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Weligepola and Balangoda andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola and Balangoda in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Provinceand bounded as follows.

North: Road from Kirimetithenna to Nedungomuwa via Bowaththa.East: Road from Nedungomuwa to Handagirigoda via GodakumburaSouth: Road from Handagirigoda to Kelegammana via Kanaththewathugoda.West: Road from Kelegammana to Kirimetithenna via Ihalagama, Ketagoda.

SCHEDULE R22

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Weligepola and Balangoda andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola and Balangoda in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Provinceand bounded as follows.

North: Mulgama Oya (The river runs to Samanala Wewa) and the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa andUva Provinces.East: Provincial Boundary of Sagaragamuwa and Uva Provinces (Weli Oya).South: Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.West: Road from the Boundary of Udawalawa Reservation to Mulgama Oya (The river runs to SamanalaWewa) via Mulgama.

SCHEDULE R23

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Nivithigala, Kalawana andAtakalanpanna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Nivithigala, Kahawaththa, Godakawela and Kalawana in RathnapuraDistrict of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Pahala Karawita to Watapotha via Nivithigala.East: Road from Watapotha to Madampe South via Panapitiya and Galle - Madampe Main Road from MadampeSouth to Rakwana.South: Road from Rakwana to Rammuke Ganga Bridge via Dolekanda (to Kajugaswaththa), Rambake Gangaand Koswaththa Ganga.West: Koswaththa Ganga, Road from Koswaththa Ganga Bridge to Pahala Karawita via Wewal Kandura,Pebotuwa, Udakara wita.

SCHEDULE R24

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Atakalanpanna and the DivisionalSecretary’s Divisions of Godakawela and Kahawaththa in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and boundedas follows.

North: Road from Watapotha to Nugawela WestEast: Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Nugawela West to Madampe via Atakalanpanna.South: Road from Madampe to Panapitiya South via Madampe South.West: Road from Panapitiya South to Watapotha via Uda Hawpe.

SCHEDUL (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20178A

SCHEDULE R25

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Embilipitiya, Weligepola andAtakalanpanna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola, Embilipitiya and Godakawela in Rathnapura Districtof the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Kelegammana to Handagirigoda via Kanaththewathugoda.East: West Boundary of Udawalawa Reservation.South: Road from the Boundary of Udawalawa Reservation to Kolambageara and Pelmadulla - NonagamaMain Road from Kolambageara to Pallewela.West: Road from Pallewela to Kelegammana via Badullegama, Thalgaskanda.

SCHEDULE R26

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Weligepola, Balangoda andEmbilipitiya and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Weligepola, Balangoda and Embilipitiya in Rathnapura Districtof the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.East: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.South: Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.West: Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation.

SCHEDULE R27

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Embilipitiya, Kolonna andAtakalanpanna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Embilipitiya. Kolonna and Godakawela in Rathnapura Districtof the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Madampe to Pallebedda via Godakawela, BalawinnaEast: Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Pallebedda to Thimbolketiya via Kolambageara.South: Angdolu Ganga, Road from Kolonna Bridge to Ereporuwa.West: Road from Ereporuwa to Buluthota and Galle - Madampe Main Road from Buluthota to Madampe viaRakwana.

SCHEDULE R28

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kalawana, Atakalanpanna andKolonna and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Kalawana, Godakawela and Kolonna in Rathnapura District of theSabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Rambuka to Rakwana via Dolekanda.East: Galle - Madampe Main Road from Rakwana to Boraluwageina via Bulutota.South: Road from Boraluwageina to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces,Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces, Boundary of the Singharaja Forest,Maha Ganga and Delgoda Ganga.West: Road from Delgoda Ganga Bridge to Rammbuka via Hapugoda.

SCHEDULE R29

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Kalawana to Koswaththa Ganga Bridge, Koswaththa Ganga.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.20179A

East: Koswaththa Ganga, Rambuke Ganga, Road from Rambuke Ganga bridge to Hapugoda.South: Road from Hapugoda to Delgoda Colony via Weddagala.West: Road from Delgoda Colony to Kalawana.

SCHEDULE R30

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Wewa Ganga Bridge to Kalawana via Kukulegama North.East: Road from Kalawana to Degoda Ganga Bridge via Delgoda, Maha Ganga, Heendola.South: Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation, Napola Dola, Koskulana Dola, Wewa Ganga.West: Wewa Ganga.

SCHEDULE R31

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from the Provincial Boudary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces to Wewa Ganga Bridge.East: Wewa Ganga, Koskulana Ganga, Napola Ganga.South: Foot Path from the Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation to the Provincial Boundary ofSabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces, Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.West: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.

SCHEDULE R32

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kalawana and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Kalawana in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation.East: Boundary of the Sinharaja Forest Reservation.South: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.West: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western Provinces.

SCHEDULE R33

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Kolonna and the Divisional Secretary’sDivision of Kolonna in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Buluthota to Ereporuwa.East: Road from Erepourwa to Pupulaketiya via Kolonna.South: Road from Pupulaketiya to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces viaDapana.West: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces, Road from the Provincial Boundary ofSabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces to Buluthota via Boraluwageiena.

SCHEDULE R34

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kolonna and Embilipitiya and theDivisional Secretary’s Divisions of Kolonna and Embilipitiya in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province andbounded as follows.

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201710A

North: Andolu Ganga (from Kolonna to Thibolketiya).East: Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Thimbolketiya to Embilipitiya Udagama via Maduwanwela.South: Road from Embilipitiya Udagama to Panamure.West: Road from Panamure to Kolonna via Jandura.

SCHEDULE R35

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Embilipitiya and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Embilipitiya in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Kolambageara to the Boundary of the Udawalawa Reservation and Boundary of the UdawalawaReservation.East: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.South: Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces to Pelmadulla - NonagamaMain Road via Embilipitiya Pallegama.West: Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road from Embilipitiya Udagama to Kolambageara via Maduwanwela.

SCHEDULE R36

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limits of Kolonna and Embilipitiya and theDivisional Secretary’s Division of Kolonna and Embilipitiya in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province andbounded as follows.

North: Road from Pupulaketiya to Panamure via JanduraEast: Road from Panamure to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces via Walagoda.South: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.West: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.

SCHEDULE R37

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Embilipitiya and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Embilipitiya in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Panamure to Embilipitiya Udagama.East: Palmadulla-Nonagama Main Road from Embilipitiya Udagama to Padalangala via Pallegama.South: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces.West: Road from the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Southern Provinces to Panamure viaWalalgoda.

SCHEDULE R38

Low Lands, Marshes, Barren or Muddy Lands situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha limit of Embilipitiya and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Embilipitiya in Rathnapura District of the Sabaragamuwa Province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Pallegama to the Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.East: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces.South: Provincial Boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Uva Provinces, Pelmadulla - Nonagama Main Road fromSiyambalagoda to Padalangala.West: Road from Padalangala to Pallegama via Thunkama’

07 - 675/1

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201711A

SRI LANKA LAND RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ACT No. 15 OF1968 AS AMENDED BY SRI LANKA LAND RECLAMATION AND DEVELOPMENTCORPORATION (AMENDED) ACT No. 35 OF 2006 AND ACT No. 52 OF 1982 AND ACTNo. 27 OF 1976

Order under Section 2(b) 1

BY virtue of the powers vested on me in terms of section 2(b)1 of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and DevelopmentCorporation Act No. 15 of 1968 as amended by Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation (Amended)Act No. 35 of 2006 and Act No. 52 of 1982 and Act No 27 of 1976, I, Patali Champika Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolisand Western Development through this Order determined and declare, with the concurrence of the subject Minister ofLand that, areas described in schedules as Ke1- Ke31 situated in Kegalle district of the Sabaragamuwa Province to be anarea of low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands for the purpose of this Act. Below mentioned terms and conditionsprescribed by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation have to be adheres to in carrying out anyactivity in this area.

PATALI CHAMPIKA RANAWAKA (M.P.),Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.

Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,17th & 18th Floors, Suhurupaya,Battaramulla,28th June 2017.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

1.The written approval of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation shall be obtained forfilling or developing a portion of land located within any of these declared areas through a request made, using an applicationissued by the Corporation for that purpose.

2.The approval would be granted in terms of the Terms and Conditions recommended by the Planning Committeecomprising the officers of the Department of Agrarian Services, Urban Development Authority, Central EnvironmentAuthority, and following officers of Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation; Chief Executive Officer/General Manager, Additional General Manager, Deputy General Manager (Special Project) Deputy General Manager(Lands. Marketing), Deputy General Manager (Research and Design), Deputy General Manager (Drainage and Reclamation)and Chief Legal Officer. (An officer of the respective Local Authority, of which the land located, will be called wherenecessary.)

3.Accordingly in case where such approval is granted under any terms and conditions made by the Sri LankaReclamation and Development Corporation, every individual who default to adhere such terms and conditions could beconvicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.

4.In case where the land proposed for development is a paddy land, the approval to be sought in terms of theformal plans and recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation on the requestof the Commissioner General of Agrarian Services.

5.In case where the land proposed for development is not a paddy land, the Local Authority concerned shallconfirm whether the recommendations issued by the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation to beobtained for any sort of development activity related to land reclamation made within this declared area, prior to grantapproval.

6.The recommendations of the other institutions concerned have to be obtained for the respective developmentpurpose of the land proposed for development.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201712A

7.Any individual authorized by the Chief Executive Officer of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and DevelopmentCorporation for the activities stipulated in the Act, shall have the power to access the declared area and anyone whodisturbs such access could be convicted guilty under the provisions of the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and DevelopmentCorporation Act.

8.Every individual who does not adhere to the terms and conditions published through this Gazette Notificationsshall be guilty under the Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation Act.

9.The terms and conditions presently imposed and the terms and conditions that will be imposed in this connectionin the future shall be adhered to.

SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE - KEGALLE DISTRICT

SCHEDULE Ke1

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Rambukkana and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Rambukkana in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and north western provinces.East:District boundary of Kandy and Kegalle districts.South:B385 main road from Pabalgama to Rambukkana.West:B475 main road from Rambukkana to Walagammulla.

SCHEDULE Ke2

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Rambukkana and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Rambukkana in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and north - western provinces and B475 main road fromDombemada to Medagaladeniya.East:B475 main road from Medagaladeniya to Rambukkana junction and B199 main road to Rambukkanajunction.South:Kandy - Colombo main road from Pallewela junction to Ranwala junction via Kegalle.West:Polgahawela - Kegalle main road from Ranwala junction to Yatattewela.

SCHEDULE Ke3

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Rambukkana, Mawanella andKegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rambukkana, Mawanella and Kegalle in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwaprovince and bounded as follows.

North:B385 main road from Rambukkana to Gondawela and B385 main road from Rambukkana to Daluggala.East:B385 main road from Gondawela to Mawanella junction.South:A1 Kandy - Colombo road from Mawanella junction to Pallewela junction.West:B199 road from Pallewela junction to Daluggala.

SCHEDULE Ke4

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Rambukkana, Mawanella and theDivisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rambukkana, Mawanella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and boundedas follows.

North: B385 road to Dedunupitiya and Gondawela and Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Centralprovinces.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201713A

East: Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.South: Kandy - Colombo main road from Warakapana to Mawanella junction.West: B385 road to Mawanella junction to Gondawela.

SCHEDULE Ke5

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Mawanella and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Mawanella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Kandy - Colombo A1 main road from Warakapana to Mawanella junction.East:District boundary of Kandy and Kegalle districts.South:District boundary of Kandy and Kegalle districts and B279 road from Gaddessa to Hemmathagama.West:B279 road from Hemmathagama to Mawanella junction.

SCHEDULE Ke6

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Mawanella and Aranayake and theDivisional Secretary’s Divisions of Mawanella and Aranayake in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and boundedas follows.

North:B279 road from Mawanella to Kekirigoda and B278 road from Mawanella to Beminiwatta.East:B279 road from Kekirigoda to Hemmathagama.South:B279 road from Hemmathagama to Aranayake and B279 road from Aranayake to Dippitya.West:B278 road from Gevilipitiya junction to Beminiwatta.

SCHEDULE Ke7

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Mawanella and Aranayake and theDivisional Secretary’s Divisions of, Mawanella and Aranayake in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and boundedas follows.

North:B279 road from Hemmathagama to Gadadessa and B279 road from Hemmathagama to Kalahagoda.East:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.South:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces and Maha Oya.West:B279 road from Aranayake to Kalagahagoda.

SCHEDULE Ke8

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Rambukkana, Kegalle, Aranayakeand Mawanella and Urban Council Limit of Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Rambukkana, Kegalle,Aranayake and Mawanella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Kandy-Colombo A1 main road from Mawanella junction to Kegalle junction.East:B278 road from Mawanella junction to Gewilipitiya junction.South:B136 road from Gewilipitiya junction to Pallegama.West:B136 road from Pallegama to Thalewela and A21 road from Thalewela to Kegalle junction.

SCHEDULE Ke9

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Aranayake, Yatiyantota, Galigamuwaand Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Bulathkohupitiya, Aranayake and Kegalle in Kegalle district ofSabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

SCHEDUL (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201714A

North:B136 road from Gewilipitiya junction to Thalawela and AA21 road from Thalewela to Morontota.East:B278 road from Gevilipitiya to Aranayake and Maha oya.South:Provincial boundary of Sabaragumuwa and Central provinces, road from Dolosbage to Dedagala andB67 main road from Dedagala to Bulathkohupitiya.West:AA21 road from Bulathkohupitiya to Morontota via Getiyamulla.

SCHEDULE Ke10

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Kegalle and Galigamuwa and UrbanCouncil limit of Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Kegalle and Galigamuwa in Kegalle district ofSabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:A1 Kandy-Colombo road from Kegalle junction to Ballapana Udabage and A21 Kegalle-Karawanellaroad from Kegalle junction to Marapana.East:A21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Marapana to Morontota.South:Road from Morontota to Kadigamuwa.West:B127 road from Kadigamuwa to Ballapana, Udabage.

SCHEDULE Ke11

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Galigamuwa, Kegalle, Yatiyantotaand Ruwanwella and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Galigamuwa, Kegalle, Bulathkohupitiya, Yatiyantota andRuwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Road from Kiridana to Morontota and B127 road from Kiridana to Kanatuwawala.East:A21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Morontota to Bulathkohupitiya via Getiyamulla.South:B27 road from Warawala to Maththamagoda.West:B127 road from Maththamagoda to Kiridana.

SCHEDULE Ke12

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Galigamuwa and Warakapola andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Galigamuwa and Warakapola in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province andbounded as follows.

North:A1 Kandy-Colombo road from Ballapana Udabage to Marapitiya.East:B127 road from Ballapana Udabage to Udugama.South:B127 road from Udugama to Kotiyakumbura and road from Kotiyakumbura to Kiniwita.West:B540 road from Kiniwita to Maripitiya.

Schedule Ke13

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Ruwanwella, Yatiyantota, Warakapolaand Galigamuwa and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of, Ruwanwella, Warakapola and Galigamuwa in Kegalle districtof Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:B540 road from Galapitamada to Kiniwita and road from Kiniwia to Malmaduwa.East:B127 road from Malmaduwa to Maththamagoda via Kotiyakumbura.South:B127 road from Maththamagoda to Anguruwella via Warawala and B457 road from Anguruwella toSiyambalawala.West:B457 road from Siyambalawala to Galapitamada.

SCHEDUL (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201715A

SCHEDULE Ke14

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Ruwanwella and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Road from Galapitamada to Dunumale.East:B457 road from Galapitamada to Anguruwella.South:B445 road from Anguruwella to Wahakula via Ruwanwella and AA21 roadWest:B445 road from Vahakula to Daluwalana and the provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and WesternProvinces.

SCHEDULE Ke15

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Warakapola and Ruwanwella andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Warakapola and Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province andbounded as follows.

North:A1 Kandy-Colombo road from Warakapola to Dummaladeniya.East:B457 road from Warakapola to Galapitamada.South:Road from Galapitamada to Dunumale and provincial boundary of Sabaragmuwa and Western provinces.West:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Western provinces.

SCHEDULE Ke16

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Warakapola and Ruwanwella andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Warakapola and Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province andbounded as follows.

North:A1 Kandy-Colombo Main road from Marapitiya to Warakapola.East:B540 road from Marapitiya to Kiniwita.South:B540 road from Kiniwita to Galapitamada and B547 road from Galapitamada to Balaharuwa.West:B547 road from Balaharuwa to Warakapola junction.

SCHEDULE Ke17

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Galigamuwa, Kegalle, Warakapolaand Rambukkana Uraban Council limit of Kegalle and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Galigamuwa, Kegalle,Warakapola and Rambukkana in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and North-western provinces.East:A19 Kegalle-Polgahawela road from Ambuwangala to Ranwala.South:A1 Kandy-Colombo main road from Ranwala to Ambepussa junction via Galigamuwa.West:A6 Ambepussa-Trincomalee road from Ambepussa junction to Alawwa railway station and theProvincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and North-western provinces.

SCHEDULE Ke18

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Warakapola and the DivisionalSecretary’s Divisions of Warakapola in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:A6 Ambepussa-Trincomalee road from Alawwa railway station to Thulhiriya.East:A6 Ambepussa-Trincomalee road from Thulhiriya to Ambepussa junction.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201716A

South:A1 Kandy-Colombo main road from Ambepussa junction to Dummaladeniya and the district boundaryof Kurunegala and Kegalle districts.West:District boundary of Kurunegala and Kegalle districts.

SCHEDULE Ke19

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Bulathkohupitiya and Yatiyantotaand the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Bulathkohupitiya and Yatiyantota in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa provinceand bounded as follows.

North:A21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Panapitiya to Bulathkohupitiya and B67 road from Bulathkohupitiyato Dolosbage.East:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.South:B482 road from Horaballa to Warakagoda.West:B385 road from Waragoda to Panapitiya.

SCHEDULE Ke20

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Ruwanwella and Yatiyantota andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Ruwanwella, Bulathkohupitiya and Yatiyantota in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwaprovince and bounded as follows.

North:AA21 road from Panapitiya to Warawala.East:B358 road from Panapitiya to Warakagoda.South:B482 road from Warakagoda to Yatiyantota and AA7 road from Yatiyantota to Karawanella.West:AA21 road from Karawanella to Warawala via Ruwanwella.

SCHEDULE Ke21

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Yatiyantota and Dehiowita and theDivisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita, Yatiyantota and Bulathkohupitiya in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwaprovince and bounded as follows.

North:B482 road from Yatiyantota to Horaballa.East:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.South:A7 Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Yatweriya to Hakbellawa.West:AA7 road from Hakbellawa to Yatiyantota.

SCHEDULE Ke22

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Yatiyantota, Deraniyagala, Ruwanwellaand Dehiowita and the Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita, Yatiyantota, Deraniyagala and Ruwanwella in Kegalledistrict of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:A7 Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Karawanella to Yatiweriya via Yatiyantota, Halbellawa,Kithulgala and Orutota.East:Provincial boundary of Sabaragamuwa and Central provinces.South:B93 road from Koswaththa to Dehiowita via Polgaswaththa, Basnagala, Anhettigama and Deraniyagala.West:A7 Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Dehiowita to Karawanella.

SCHEDUL (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201717A

SCHEDULE Ke23

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Ruwanwella and theDivisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and boundedas follows.

North:Kelani ganga and A21 Kegalle-Karawanella road from Ruwanwella to Karawanella.East:A7 Avissawella-Hatton-Nuwaraeliya road from Karawanella to Dehiowita.South:A4 Colombo-Rathnapura-Batticaloa road from Dehiowita to Avissawella.West:District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts and Kelani ganga.

SCHEDULE Ke24

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Ruwanwella and the DivisionalSecretary’s Divisions of Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts and B445 road from Daluwalana to Wahakula.East:B445 road from Wahakula to Ruwanwella and Kelani ganga.South:Kelani ganga and B408 road from Medagosa to Mahadeniya.West:B408 road from Mahadeniya to Puranpoththa.

SCHEDULE Ke25

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Ruwanwella and the DivisionalSecretary’s Divisions of Ruwanwella in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North: B408 road from Puranpoththa to Amithirigala and District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts.East: B408 road from Amithirigala to Medagoda and Kelani ganga.South: District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts.West: District boundary of Gampaha and Kegalle districts.

SCHEDULE Ke26

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of, Dehiowita and the DivisionalSecretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North:A4 Colombo-Rathnapura-Batticaloa road from Avissawella to Dehiowita.East:B110 road from Dehiowita to Panawala.South:B110 road from Panawala to Wilegoda and District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.West:District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.

SCHEDULE Ke27

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province andbounded as follows.

North:B93 road from Dehiowita to Deloluwa and the causeway cum bridge (Sapaththu palama) road fromDehiowita.East:B93 road from Deloluwa to Anhettigama.South:Seethawaka ganga.West:B110 road from Batahgala to the causeway cum bridge (Sapaththu palama).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 06.07.201718A

SCHEDULE Ke28

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province andbounded as follows.

North:Seethawaka ganga.East:Road from Ambanwella to Demada.South:District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.West:B110 road from Weligoda to Batangoda.

SCHEDULE Ke29

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala andthe Divisional Secretary’s Divisions of Dehiowita and Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province andbounded as follows.

North:Seethawaka ganga.East:Road from Anhettigama to Magala via Pothdenikanda, Yatawala.South:District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.West:Road from Demeda to Ambanwala.

SCHEDULE Ke30

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limits of Deraniyagala and the DivisionalSecretary’s Divisions of Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Basnagala to Polgaswaththa.East: Road from Polgaswaththa to Maliboda.South: Road from Maliboda to Anhettigama.West: Road from Anhettigama to Basnagala.

SCHEDULE Ke31

Low lands, marshes, barren or muddy lands situated in the Pradesheeya Sabha limit of Deraniyagala and the DivisionalSecretary’s Division of Deraniyagala in Kegalle district of Sabaragamuwa province and bounded as follows.

North: Road from Minuwandeniya to Padaha provincial boundary of Central and Sabaragamuwa provices.East: Provincial boundary of Central and Sabaragamuwa provinces and District boundary of Nuwaraeliyaand Kegalle districts.South: District boundary of Rathnapura and Kegalle districts.West: Road from Magala to Padaha.

07-675/2

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.