PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

————————

[Bill No. 306]

————————

Presented by the Minister of Finance on 23rd of October, 2019

(Published in the Gazette on August 09, 2019)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

2-2d

2-

This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

INLAND TRUST RECEIPTS (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Inland Trust Receipts Act, No. 14 of 1990

————————

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 3 of the Inland Trust Receipts Act, No. 14 of 1990,and the legal effect of the section as amended is to provide for the legal consequences ofinland trust receipts registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019, but notunder the Registration of Documents Ordinance.

Clause 3: This clause makes provisions in regard to the period of enforceability of inlandtrust receipts already registered under the Registration of Documents Ordinance and therequirement of registering those inland trust receipts under the Secured Transactions Act,No. of 2019 upon coming into operation of the said Act in order for them to be furtherenforceable and for their priority to continue to prevail.

1Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

L.D.—O. 67/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND TRUST RECEIPTSACT, NO. 14 OF 1990

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Trust Receipts(Amendment) Act, No. of 2019 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2.Section 3 of the Inland Trust Receipts Act, No. 14 of1990 is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words “registered under theRegistration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale”, ofthe words and figures “registered under the SecuredTransactions Act, No. of 2019 as a bill of sale”.

3.(1) Where on the date of coming into operation ofthis Act an inland trust receipt which has been registeredunder the Registration of Documents Ordinance as a bill ofsale is in force, such inland trust receipt shall, for a period oftwo years from the date of coming into operation of this Act,continue to be enforceable, but shall be required to beregistered under the relevant provisions of the SecuredTransactions Act, No. of 2019 as a bill of sale, prior to theexpiration of such two years period.

(2) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) shall, onbeing registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of2019, be deemed to have been perfected from the date on

Short titleand date ofoperation.

Amendmentof section 3ofAct, No. 14of 1990.

Provisionsrelating toinland trustreceiptsregisteredunder theRegistrationofDocumentsOrdinance.

2Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment)

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

5

10

which such bill of sale initially became legally enforceable,and any priority which such bill of sale became entitled toat the time it initially became leaglly enforceable, shallcontinue to prevail.

(3) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) which is notregistered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of 2019prior to the expiration of two years from the date of cominginto operation of this Act, shall become legally unenforceableafter the expiry of such period.

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

3Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING