==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.05.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1914$41 - 2015 uehs ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'05'15No. 1914/41 - FRIDAY, MAY 15, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha

BY-LAWS

I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, dohereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-Section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,No. 156 of 1987, to be read with Sub-Section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989(Consequential Provisions) has approved the following by-laws framed by the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha, according topowers vested under Sub-Section (iii) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-Section (1) of Section 122 ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the said by-laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha Authorityarea of Minipe from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.

SARATH EKANAYAKE,The Chief Minister of the Central Provinceand the Minister in charge of the subject ofLocal Government.Office of the Chief Minister of the Central Province,Kandy,19th February, 2015.

MINIPE PRADESHIYA SABHA

BY-LAWS RELATING TO OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR LEVYING TAXES

1. This by-law is cited as the by-law relating to obtaining information for levying taxes from all business places andindustries maintained in the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Areas.

2. This by-law is framed for the purpose of making provisions for obtaining periodical returns necessary forcollection of information required for preparing statements of accounts for levying taxes from all businessplaces and industries maintained within the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Areas.

2AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.05.2015

3. All business and industrial institutions and organizations in the authority area of Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha shallmaintain correct and genuine statements, and reports of accounts according to recognized norms of accountingsystems.

4. It is the duty of every person, subject to business tax, to render all information and copies of such informationin respect of all financial transactions and accounts relating to such information when required by the Chairmanor by an officer authorized on that behalf.

5. All business information an periodical returns of financial accounts required from time to time by the Chairman orby an officer authorized by him, shall be prepared based on recognized norms of accounting systems.

6. All the financial reports and statements of accounts to be forwarded under by-law No. 05 shall be audited and becertified by a recognized auditor.

7. Any person whoever, who receives a notice forwarded by the secretary or by an authorized officer of the MinipePradeshiya Sabha shall forwarded to the Secretary the information required by such notice within 14 days of thereceipts of the notice.

8. Furnishing false information or failure to forward such information is an offence.

9. When it is required to check the information furnised in the periodical returns called for under by-law No. 05, it islawful for the Chairman or the person authorized by him to visit such place of business or the premises of theindustry and check the authenticity of such information from books and documents therein.

10. Contravention of any one or several or all these by-laws shall be an offence, and when convicted in a court of lawhaving jurisdiction, the fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously and when convicted,or in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an maximumfine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined under Sub-section (2) of Section122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.

11. The fine imposed fee charged under By Law No. 10, shall be deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha fund.

12. Unless the context otherwise required in these by laws -“Council” means the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha,“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha,“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Minipe Pradeshiya Sabha to inspect andsupervise all activities of any business place.

13. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shallprevail.

05 - 801

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.