==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2016

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

w;s úfYI

wxl 1992$24 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 09 jeks nodod - 2016'11'09

No. 1992/24 - WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 09, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Draft Statute No...... 2016 of the Uva Navodaya

FUND OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF UVA PROVINCE

SUBMITTING as follows for Public views on the above draft Statute proposed to be implemented in the ProvincialCouncil of Uva Province.

Hereby inform that, this draft will be submitted to the provincial council of Uva Province after 10 days of publishof this notice in special Gazette. If want to present any points regarding the content of the Statute, should inform thesepoints in writing to me to the following address within 10 days of this notice.

CHAMARA SAMPATH DASSANAYAKE,

Uva Province Chief Minister andMinistry of Finance and Planning, Lawand Order, Local Government, Land, Power

and Energy, Construction and Rural

Infrastructure Development.

At Chief Minister’s Office,Kings Street,Badulla,28th October, 2016.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.20162A

UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Statute No....... /2016 of Uva Navodaya Fund

The Statute No...../1992 of Uva Navodaya Fund is Statute to be substitute in order to provide financial assistance andmaterials for the students in Uva Province those who got university entrance, talented students with the qualifications tosit for advance level, to provide facilities to confirm the health of the school students in Uva Province, to appreciate thestudents showing sporting talents, provide facilities, providing physical infrastructure facilities and to provide provisionsfor other things related to this in order to support to uplift the sports skills.

Enact as such by the Provincial Council of Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka.

01. This Statute will be identified as the Statute No......../2016 of Uva Navodaya fund, it willcome to effect from the date of approval by the Governor of Uva Province.

(2). (1) (Hereafter will be mentioned as “fund”) a fund should be established mentioned as UvaNavodaya Fund

(2) As per the name given in the paragraph (1) the fund is a corporation, There should be acontinuous survival and general stamp for that. Further cases can be filled by the fund and against thefund by this name.

(03).(01). The administration, management and control of the fund should be assigned to theadministrative board constituted as per the of Provisions provided hereafter.

(2) (Hereafter will be mentioned as “board”) the administrative board of the fund shouldinclude the following members :

(a) The Chief Minister ;

(b) The Education Minister of the Cabinet;

(c) Chief Secretary;

(d) The Secretary of the Education Ministry ;

(e) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute ;

(f) Two representatives appointed by the Chief Minister, representing Tamil and Muslim

community;

(h) the opposition leader or the representative appointed by him.;

(3) The Chief Minister should be the Chairman of the Board ;

(4) The Secretary of the organization in charge of this statute should be the Secretary of thisboard by ex-officio. The Secretary should be the Chief accounting officer of the board.

(5) The members appointed to board can resign by their own at any time by sending a letterto the Chairman.

Short title andDate ofImplementation

Establishing UvaNavodaya Fund

Administrativeboard of the fund

3AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2016

(6) The following persons are not suitable to be appointed as a member of the board orcontinue as a member of the board

(a) if a person in a situation can’t be released from liquidation and bankruptcy after

announced bankrupt by the laws existing in Sri Lanka or other countries.

(b) if a person committed crimes related to abuse against morality, which can be subjected

to imprisonment not less than six months.

(c) if a person is mentally upset or with mental disorders under the laws existing in Sri

Lanka.

(7) Under the provisions in paragraph (5) and (6) the tenure of the members appointed to theboard is three years.

(8) Members appointed to the board can be removed from the posts at any time withoutciting any reason by the Chairman. A new member can be appointed to that vacancy by the Chief Minister.

(9) in case of the appointed member passed away, resigned or vacate the post before thematurity of the tenure due other reasons the replacement member appointed can stay in the post for theperiod not matured during the tenure of the predecessor.

(10) in case of conflicts in ideas among members the decision of the majority should bindwith power.

(11) Should not consider any act or activity powerless only for the reason there is a vacancyamong members of the board.

(12) The quorum for any meetings of the board should be three members.

(13) Under the provisions of the (9) paragraph there should be a proper procedure relate tothe meetings of the board and conducting meetings.

(14) The meetings of the board should be conducted as per the orders of the Chairman oronce in two months.

4. The purposes of the fund should be as follows

(a) To provide financial assistance and materials for the students in Uva Province those

who got university entrance, talented students with the qualifications to sit for advancelevel.

(b) Reward to appreciate the students of Uva Province, shows special talents in Education.

(c) To provide pure drinking water to confirm the good health of the students of Uva

Province and to provide infrastructure facilities prevent these children from specificdisease.

(d) To provide financial assistance and scholarship to improve the sports techniques of

the students of Uva Province, they show sporting talents accepted at District/Provincialand national level.

The purposes ofthe fund

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.20164A

(e) To improve and develop the infrastructure facilities and physical situation of the

existing sports grounds in support to improve the sports skill of the students andmembers of the sports societies in general and to establish new grounds and facilitiesin places without such facilities.

5. Stamp of the fund

(a) It should be in the custody of the person defined earlier by the board ;

(b) Can be changed by some way according to the decision of the board ;

(c) No register should be singed except in front of two members with the powers of the

board, these two should sign the register to witness their presence.

6. (1) The board has the powers to perform everything needed or the sequential things in thename of the board to activate the purposes of the fund.

(2) Following should be the powers and duties of the board without damaging the powersassigned according to the sub paragraph (1)

(a) Collection of funds and obtaining grants, gifts and donations from local and

international financial sources.

(b) The fund has the powers to acquisition and possession of movable or fixed assets

assigned to the board under this Statute or by purchase, by grant, by gift, by legacy orby other means and has the powers to sell, mortgage, to rent, to donate, to assign, torelease, to exchange or to dispose by other means.

(c) To maintain a lottery system and collect funds under some existing law to improve

the purposes of the fund.

(d) To function by involving as a sub agent if there is no officer or employee given

straight or ad hoc in writing powers by the board through agreements or understandingto implement the powers, functions and duties to perform the purposes of the fund.

(e) To construct a building or to make a sketch or to plan such things in the land owned

by enjoyed by the fund.

(f) With the approval of the board to invest the money owned by the fund including the

money of the Uva Navodaya Fund No. 01/1992 in legal investment, to reinvestment,to change that investment, to cancel as per the wish of the board, to collect the incomegenerated by these investments.

(g) Opening bank accounts in banks as per the notice of the board and closing down the

bank accounts.

7. The money received from the following financial sources should be credited to the fund.

(a) Assistance given by the Uva Provincial Council to the fund ;

(b) Grants or donations in the form of money or others given by individuals or

organizations ;

Stamp of the fund

Power and Dutiesof the fund

Composition ofthe fund

5AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2016

(c) Income received by the board through lottery organized by the board and carnival ;

(d) Income or interest received by investments ;

(e) Grants, gifts or donations from international donors ;

(f) All other incomes received by the board through other means ;

(g) By integrating the money of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992

8. Following expenditure should be done by the fund :

(a) All the expenditures approved by the fund for the functions needed to fulfill purposes

of the fund.

(b) Expenses needed to establish, conduct and to implement the fund

9.(a) According to the necessity of the fund, all the officials and employees coming under

provincial public service commission can be used for the functions of the board fora time period decided by the board based on the wish of the respective officials oremployees and the Chief Secretary.

(b) The service done by the officials and employees for the fund during this period should

be considered as a service done for the provincial council.

10. (1) The board should update and maintain their income, expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions in accordance with the accounting standard.

(2) In each year on the thirty first of December the board should take measures to calculatethe balance in the account books and should make arragements to prepare the income and expenditureaccounts for the respective year before the Thirty First of March of the next year and to prepare the finalaccounts including the balance sheet, including the over view of the assets and liabilities to be preparedon the date mentioned first.

(3) To implement the provisions mentioned in the paragraph (3), (2) can get the assistanceof an accountant of Uva Provincial Council as per the paragraph 9(a).

(4) The income and expenditure accounts and the balance sheet of the board should be certifiedby two members of the board authorized for ad hoc through the approval of a proposal.

(5) According to the 154th constitution the accounts of the fund should be audited by theAuditor General every year.

11. The calendar year should be the financial year of the fund.

12. (1). The amount incurred related to legal situations because of the case filed by the fund orcase filed against the fund in a courts, should be reimburse by the fund.

13. All the officials and employees of the fund should considered as government servants asper the interpretations and functions of panel code.

Payments madeby the fund

Accounts andAuditing

Financial year ofthe fund

Reimbursement ofexpenditure

The officials andemployees of thefund shouldconsidered asgovernmentservants underpanel code

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'09PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.20166A

14. Fund should be considered as an organization listed under the interpretations of the briberyact .

15. The Statute of Uva Navodaya fund No. 1/1992 will be repeal from the date of implementationof this Statute, no prejudice will done to all the activities carried out up to now by the Statute of UvaNavodaya fund No. 1/1992 and should considered as done by this.

16. If there is any inconsistency, between Sinhala, Tamil and English the Sinhala text may beimpose.

17. If there is any need for definitions in this statute.

Chief Minister as Uva Province Chief Minister

Cabinet Minister of Eudcation as Uva Provincial Cabinet Minister of Education.

Chief Secretary as Uva Province Chief Secretary

Secretary of Ministry of Education as Secretary of Uva Provincial Ministry of Education

Secretary of the organization in charge of this Statute as Secretary of the organization implementing theactivities of the fund according to the decision of the administrative board.

11-1090

Fund should beconsidered as anorganization listedunder theinterpretation ofbribery act

Impose of Sinhalawhen there is aninconsistency

Definitions

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.