THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of February 15, 2019

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 15.02.2019)

JUDICATURE (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice and Prison Reforms

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 45 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 and the legaleffect of the section as amended is to enable Justices of Peace to be appointed for any AdministrativeDistrict and to deem all those who have been appointed to any zone, district or division prior tocoming into operation of this proviso to have been appointed to such Administrative District,containing the Divisional Secretary’s Division within which the residence of such Justice of thePeace was situated at the time of appointment and to enable the Minister to make regulations forthe suspension, cancellation and termination of office of Justices of Peace.

Judicature (Amendment)1

L. D.—O. 33/ 2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE JUDICATURE ACT, NO. 2 OF 1978

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Judicature (Amendment)Act, No. of 2019.

2.Section 45 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 ishereby amended as follows:—

(i)by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newsubsection:—

“(2)The Minister may, from time to time by noticepublished in the Gazette, appoint such personsas shall be named in such notice to be Justicesof the Peace for the Republic of Sri Lanka orfor any administrative district as to theMinister shall seem expedient:

Provided however, where any appointmentof any Justice of the Peace has been madeprior to the date of coming into operation ofthis proviso for any zone, district or division,such appointment shall be deemed to havebeen made for the relevant administrativedistrict containing the Divisional Secretary’sDivision within which the residence of suchJustice of the Peace was situated at the timeof appointment for such zone, district ordivision.”.

Short title.

5

10

15

20

25

Amendment ofsection 45 ofAct, No. 2 of1978.

Judicature (Amendment)2

5

10

(ii)by the insertion of the following new subsectionimmediately after subsection (2):—

“(2A)For the purposes of this section“administrative district” shall mean anadministrative district established under theAdministrative Districts Act (Chapter 392).”.

(iii)by the insertion of the following subsectionimmediately after subsection (5):—

“(6)The Minister may make regulations for thesuspension, cancellation and termination ofoffice of a Justice of the Peace.”.

3.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseofinconsistency.

Judicature (Amendment)3

Department of Government Printing