==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.20161A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1981$33 - 2016 wf.daia;= ui 23 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'08'23No. 1981/33 - TUESDAY, AUGUST 23, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

OFFICE OF THE PROVINCIAL COMMISSIONER OF MOTOR TRAFFIC (WESTERN PROVINCE)

Registration of a Motor Garage to issue Fitness Certificate

MOTOR garages within Western Province satisfying the following qualifications and facilities are annually registered toissue Fitness Certificate on behalf of commercial vehicles utilized to provide public services (Omnibuses and Lorries etc.)Applicants should have registered their businesses with the Registrar of Business Names and payers of rates to relevantlocal government authority and/or payers of taxes and charges imposed by government or Provincial Council from time totime.

1. Qualifications to be satisfied by applicants applying for a Motor Garage of Grade “A” type

1.1 Facilities :

i. A pit of 20 feet long, 2 1/2 feet wide, 4 1/2 feet deep or a ramp or a hoist offering similar facilitiesfor inspection of motor vehicles.

ii. A Tapley Meter or Roller Brake Tester

iii. Equipment or a place together with a Board to inspect Head Lights.

iv. Testing Lamp

v. Key Sets for inspection affairs (including keys of every size according to standard sizes)

vi. Alignment Gauge.

vii. Electrical and gas welding equipment

1.2 Certifying Officer and Staff :

(i) Shall have obtained National Diploma in Technology or Junior Technical Officers’ Certificate in thesubject field of Mechanical Engineering.

or

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.20162A

(ii) Shall have obtained complete Technical Certificate on Motor Mechanics awarded by London Cityand Guilds Institute parallel to the course mentioned in above (i)

and

Shall have obtained at least 2 years mechanical experience from a recognized motor garage.

(Persons obtained foreign training on Motor Engineering and persons with more than 15 years ofexperience in Motor Mechanics at a government institution after obtaining the certificate in motorengineering issued by the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute shall be considered forexemption from the above requirements, depending on their qualifications.)

(iii) Certifying Officer shall possess a valid Driver’s License to drive heavy vehicles.

(iv) Certifying Officer shall be a permanent employee of the garage

(v) There shall be at least one manager in charge of the motor garage and such staff as may be required

2. Qualifications to be satisfied for a Motor Garage of Grade “B” type

2.1 Facilities

i. A pit of 20 feet long, 2 1/2 feet wide, 4 1/2 feet deep or a ramp or a hoist offering similar facilties forinspection of motor vehicles

ii. A Tapley instrument to test brakes

iii. Equipment or a place together with a Board to inspect Head Lights

iv. Key Set for inspection affairs (including keys of every size according to standard sizes)

2.2 Certifying Officer and Staff

i. Shall have obtained National Diploma in Technology or Junior Technical Officers’ Certificate in thesubject field of Mechanical Engineering

or

ii. Shall have obtained complete Technical Certificate on Motor Mechanics awarded by London Cityand Guilds Institute parallel to the course metioned in above (i)

and

shall have obtained at least 2 years mechanical experience from a recognized motor garage.

(Persons obtained foreign training on Motor Engineering and persons with more than 15 years ofexperience in Motor Mechanics at a government institution after obtaining the certificate in motorengineering issued by the Ceylon German Technical Training Institute shall be considered forexemption from the above requirements, depending on their qualifications.)

iii. Certifying Officer shall possess a valid Driver’s License to drive heavy vehicles.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.20163A

3. Vehicle categories that can be inspected at a Grade “A” and Grade “B” type garage are as follows :-

Vehicles that can be inspected atVehicles that can be inspected ata Grade “A” type garagea Grade “B” type garage

Omnibus-Private CoachPrivate CoachMotor LorryMotor LorryAmbulance, HearseAmbulance, HearseLorry TrailerLorry TrailerSpecial Task vehiclesSpecial task vehiclesTricycle VansTricycle Vans

The following documents shall be forwarded with the application :

(i) A copy of the certificate registering the garage by Department of Business Names Registration.

(ii) Copy of receipt by which rates/business Tax was paid to the relevant local government institution.

(iii) Rough sketch indicating the true location/road access to the garage from the middle of the town.

(iv) Qualifications of proposed Certifying Officers and photocopies of their certificates.

(v) WP 1 receipt obtained by paying the fees published from time to time as the non-refundable deposit amount.

Where location of the garage and inspection officer remain unchanged in already registered garages, it is notnecessary to produce above (iii) and (iv)

LALITH WANIGARATHNE,Provincial Minister of Roads, Transport, CooperativeDevelopment and Trade, Housing and Construction, EstateSector Infrastructure Facilities, Industries and Rural Development.

Provincial Minister of Road, Transport, CooperativeDevelopment and Trade, Housing and Construction,Estate Sector Infrastructure Facilities, Industriesand Rural Development (Western Province),No. 89, 4th Floor,“Ranmagapaya”,Kaduwela Road,Battaramulla,23rd August 2016.

09-250

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.