==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYI

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV(A) : PROVINCIAL – COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

NOTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

wxl 2065$37 – 2018 wfm%a,a ui 05 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2018'04'05No. 2065/37 – THURSDAY, APRIL 05, 2018

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG3976– 27 (04/2018)

NOTHERN PROVINCE INDIGENOUS MEDICINE STATUTE

No. 09 OF 2016

NOTICE is hereby given that the Nothern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Nothern Province Indigenous

Medicine Statute No. 09 of 2016 on 10th January 2017 and that the Hon. Governor Nothern Province has given his Assent to

it on 02nd April 2018.

K. THEIVENDRAM,

Secretary,

Council Secretariat,

Nothern Provincial Council.

Council Secretariat,

A 9 Road,

Kaithady.

03rd April, 2018.

2AIV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018

Short title anddate ofOperation.

Establishmentof the Departmentof provincialindigenousmedicine.CommissionerIndigenousMedicine ofNorthernProvince andStaff.

Objectives oftheDepartment.

NOTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

INDIGENOUS MEDICINE STATUTE No. 09 OF 2016 OF THE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OFNORTHERN PROVINCE

A Statute to provide, by implementing the subject of “Indigenous Medicine system” mentioned in list I ofTable 9 embodied in the constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic Of Sri Lanka, for implementation ofcurative, preventive care services and health education,establish Indigenous Medical community medicalservices development, and conservation of the same; by using Indigenous Medicine system for thepeople of Northern Province; the establishment, and development of Indigenous Medical institutions,and Herbal gardens to provide necessary facilities and expansion for same ; registration of IndigenousMedical institutions and Indigenous Medical practitioners of Northern Province and regularizing andsupervising of the same; improvement and preservation of Indigenous Medicine procedures; to initiateand maintain Indigenous Medicine Community health services; for matters connected with or incidental tothe aforesaid matters. The provisions of this statute are inconsistent with the Ayurveda Act No. 31 of 1961.

Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of Northern Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

1. This Statute shall be cited as the Indigenous Medicine Statute No: 09 of 2016 of the Provincial Councilof Northern Province and will be effective from the date on which it is assent by the Hon.Governor ofNorthern Province.

PART I

Establishment of Provincial indigenous medicine department, its composition and tasks

2.There shall be a Department of Indigenous medicine will be established (hereinafter referred to as the“Department” in this Statute) to achieve the objectives of this statute in Northern Province.

3. (i) There shall be appointed a person as “Commissioner” of Indigenous medicine of NorthernProvince”, hereinafter referred to as “Commissioner” in this Statute. He/ She shall be the headof the department. He/ She will be responsible for the implementation of Provisions of thisstatute, according to the directions of the Secretary of Ministry.

(ii)There may be appointed such numbers of Deputy Commissioners of Indigenous Medicine, officersand Indigenous Medicine officers as may be necessary to assist the commissioners to implementthe provisions of this statute,

(iii)The appointments, promotions, disciplinary actions and dismissals of the departmental staff otherthan the Commissioner of Indigenous Medicine and Deputy Commissioners and Ayurveda doctorshall be in accordance with part IV of the Provincial Councils Act No.42 of 1987.

(iv)All those who are in service / posts approved in the department, before the implementation of thisstatute, will be considered as having appointed in accordance with this statute.

(v)The Commissioner may delegate any of the powers and duties conferred on him /her according tothis statute, toappropriate staff.

4. The objectives of the department are as mentioned below.

(i) As in the manner mentioned in item 12 of list 01 of 09 Schedule of Constitution of DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka, establishing hospitals and institutions of Indigenous Medicinemaintaining and providing services.

(ii) Implementing preventive measures and health education activities to promote the health conditionof the people of Northern Province, according to Indigenous Medicine system.

(iii)Cultivation,preservation and development of medicinal herbs varieties necessary for indigenous

medicine.

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.20183A

(IV) (a) Regularizing any dispensaries,hospitals, sales centers, drugs producing centers,yoga service centersin the names of meant accordingly, of siddha, Ayurveda,Unani,Yoga systems.other alternative medicine procedures.

(b) when regularizing the matters in paragraph one, issuing necessary advice guidelines andfacilities, to local Authorities.

5. The activities of the department are as follows.

(i)Establishment and maintenance of hospitals and dispensaries which provide indigenous medicineservices and establishment of other institutions necessary for the treatment of patients accordingto indigenous medicine procedure and maintenance of effective and efficient indigenous medicineservices and regularizing same.

(ii)Preparation and implementation of Health plans for the improvement of health of the people of theprovince according to indigenous medical system.

(iii)Establishment, maintenance and administration of hospitals and institutions according toIndigenous Medicine procedure and as per necessity of the province.

(iv)Making necessary methodology to improve the quality of patient care services and to popularizethe Indigenous Medical system.

(v)Providing necessary knowledge and training to the personnel working in Indigenous Medicalinstitutions.

(vi)Registration of private, non – governmental organizations, semi government institutions and co-operative related institutions and formulating guidelines, standards and basic requirements whichshall be followed by the institutions concerned when carrying on activities, implementing andsupervising and regularizing the same.

(vii)Establishment of herbals gardens and maintaining same.

(viii)Encouraging the plantation of medicine herbs and improving the knowledge in that regard.

(ix)Establishing Indigenous Medicine production centers, according to approved policies andstandards to supply necessary medicines to Indigenous Medical institutions functioning in theprovince and maintaining same.

(x)Improving the health condition of the people by expanding the Provincial community medicalservices for prevention of diseases, preservation of traditional medical systems and providingservices at emergency and disaster situations.

(xi)Encouraging the production of medicines necessary for indigenous medical services in accordancewith approved National Policy and Standards and improving the knowledge regarding same.

(xii)Collecting and publicizing the informations relevant to indigenous medical services to be made,for health of the people of the province and uplifting same.

(xiii)Collecting preserving and utilizing the information regarding indigenous traditional medical system.

(xiv)Obtaining appropriate resources and suggestions for development activities according to thelaws of the country in order to fulfill the functions and responsibilities of the department.

(xv)Formulating indigenous medical policy, in accordance with National policy.

Activities oftheDepartment.

4AIV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018

6.(I) The department shall have all necessary powers, within the law, in order to fulfill its objectives andto perform the activities assigned, which are mentioned in this statute.

(ii)If information, records or reports are required by commissioner or by any person authorized byhim, from government or non-governmental indigenous medical institution or a person, necessaryto fulfill the objectives and activities mentioned under this statute, such informations, records orreports should be supplied by such institution or by such person.

Part II

INDIGENOUS MEDICAL INSTITUTIONS.

7. It an Indigenous Medical institution is to operate within the province.

(i)All Properly registered institutions should be published in the Gazette, by commissioner.

(ii)No indigenous Medical institution should be maintained or operated in the province withoutthe registration certificate issued by Commissioner.

8. (i) All applications for the registration as an Indigenous Medical Institution. have to be completed inaccordance with the prescribed format and be submitted to the Commissioner.

(ii)When such application is approved by Provincial Commissioner the indigenous medicalinstitution is to be registered and the certificate of registration is issued to the applicant andthe said premises be registered as relevant indigenous medical institution.

(iii)When the application is rejected, the application not in accordance with the regulations /rules imposed regarding registration as indigenous medical institution, is to be rejected andaction be taken to inform the applicant in writing.

(iv) An applicant, who is not satisfied with the decision of commissioner rejecting the application,can apply again after rectifying the said reasons / defects pointed out by the commissioner.

(v) The registration fees decided by Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject, is acceptable.

VI.Any person, who has the written permission of the Commissioner, within the general boundariesof law, shall have the power to enter into the institution or premises registered as indigenous medicalinstitution, at any necessary time.

(a)To inspect such premises.

(b)To inquire matters from any person or patient who is there.

(c)To examine any documents or reports maintained there and to take copies of the saiddocuments or reports.

(d)To give orders or advise to take action according to the provisions of this statute orregulations or rules imposed under same, to the owner and a person – in – charge of thesaid premises.

9. When carrying out activities and tasks the Commissioner may request the assistance of Police.

Powers of theDepartment.

Registrationof IndigenousMedicalInstitutions

Powers andTasks of theCommissionerregardingregisteredIndigenousMedicalInstitutions.

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.20185A

Part III

10.1. (i) No person in the Northern Province should engage in indigenous medical activity, unlesspermission is obtained as prescribed by the department.

(ii) All persons who are engaged and to be engaged in indigenous medical service shouldsubmit their applications in writing to the Commissioner, according to the procedure laiddown for same.

(iii) .The applicant, whose application was rejected, can submit the application again.

11. Any person to be registered as a person engaged in indigenous medical service.

(a)Shall be a Citizen of Sri Lanka.

(b)Shall possess qualifications issued by a recognized institution and possess qualificationsprescribed according to the procedural rules declared under this statute.

12. In the event, a person who is engaged in indigenous medical service is found guilty by a court thathas appropriate judicial powers, for any offense mentioned in the penal code, the Commissioner can eithersuspend or cancel his registration.

13. (I) Appeal can be made by applicant who is not satisfied regarding the decision of thecommissioner, rejecting the application to the secretary, within twenty-one days from the date the saiddecision was informed.

(II) The secretary shall inform his decision to the applicant within thirty days of receipt of such appeal.

14. (I) In the supply of goods and services in the Northern province, the words “Siddha”, “Ayurveda”,“Unani” “Traditional Medication” and “Yoga system” shall not be used without written permission of theCommissioner.

Part IV

OFFENCES AND PUNISHMENTS

15. If any person, who maintains an indigenous medical institution without registration, is found guilty

after a summary trial held before a magistrate shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees fifty thousand

or a term of imprisonment not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment

16. If any person who engages in indigenous medical service without registration, is found guilty after

a summary trial held before a Magistrate shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees Twenty-Five

Thousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both the fine and imprisonment.

Registration ofthose engagedin IndigenousMedicalService.

Suspensionsandcancellation ofthese engagedin indigenousmedical.

Making appealregardingrejection ofregistration.

Usage of words“Siddha”“Ayurveda”Unani”“TraditionalMedication” or“Yoga system”which comesunderindigenousmedicine.

Qualificationsnecessary forregistrationas a personengaged inindigenousmedicalservice..

6AIV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018

17. If any person who obstructs the duties of the officer engaged in the matters said in this statute orcontravenes the provisions mentioned in the statute is found guilty after a summary trial held before amagistrate, shall be liable to a fine of not less than Rupees Five Thousand and not exceeding RupeesTwenty-five thousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both fine and imprisonment.

18. If any person who contravenes the rules and regulations to made under this statute, is found guiltyafter a summary trial before a magistrate, shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees two hundredthousand or a term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Part V

PROVINCIAL INDIGENOUS MEDICAL SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD

19. Provincial indigenous medical services advisory board should be appointed by the Minister regardingplanning and implementation of provincial indigenous medical services.

20. (i) The provincial indigenous medical services advisory board (hereinafter referred to as Advisoryboard) shall consist of the following members: -

(a) The Secretary

(b) The Commissioner

(c) The provincial Director of Health Services or his representative.

Further the following persons will be appointed as members: -

(d) Seven doctors / indigenous medical practitioners, who are qualified and not in GovernmentService, to be appointed by the Minister, to represent the five Districts of Jaffna, Kilinochchi,Mullaitivu, Vavuniya and Mannar. (Five siddha, one Unanai, one Ayurveda.)

(e) One high professional person appointed to represent social organizations.

(ii) The chairman of the advisory board will be appointed by minister in charge of the subject,Commissioner will be its secretary.

(iii) (a) The term of office of the members of the advisory board, shall be two years.

(b) An appointed member shall hold office for two years from the date of appointment unless resignson own wish or death or removed from the post by minister - in – charge of subject or vacating thepost before the term of office and is eligible to be appointed again.

(c) In the event of an appointed member vacating office by death, resignation on own wish, removalfrom post by Minister or otherwise, the Minister shall appoint another eligible member for thebalance term of such member.

P r o v i n c i a li n d i g e n o u smedical servicesadvisory board.

Structure ofprovincialindigenousmedicalservicesadvisory board.

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.20187A

(i)A member, by addressing a letter to the minister, can resign from the post at any time.

(ii)The advisory board shall meet at least once in three months.

(iii)The quorum of the advisory board shall be four members.

21. The tasks of the said advisory board shall be the submission of observations, recommendations andsuggestions in suitable manner, to the Minister – in – charge of the subject, regarding the matters referredto the advisory board and submission of recommendations and proposals from time to time regarding theactivities of improvement of services of Provincial indigenous medicine department, development of healthstate of the province.

Part VI

HOSPITAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE

22. (i) The development Committees for the provincial indigenous Hospitals, Base Hospitals, DistrictHospitals, coming under this statute (hereinafter referred to as “Committees” shall be appointed by thesecretary.

(ii) The composition of the hospital development Committee shall be as mentioned below.

(a) Divisional secretary or his representative of the division concerned.

(b) Director/ Medical superintendent/ Medical Officer-in-charge.

(c)Two representatives of the social level organizations of the area where the institution is situated.

(d) A registered indigenous doctors who is not attached to the relevant hospital, of the area.

(e) Two representations of the hospital staff.

(iii) The relevant representatives shall be appointed with the consent of the minister – in – charge of subject.

(iv) The person who is elected in the election of members and appointed shall be the secretary andthe Medical Officer – in – charge of the institution shall be the chairman of this committee asex-officio.

(v) (a) The term of office of this committee shall be two years.

The tasks ofthe advisoryboard.

Establishmentof HospitalDevelopmentCommitteeand itsComposition

8AIV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018

(b) If the term of office of the members appointed with the consent of the minister - in -

charge of the subject, is vacated before the prescribed date for any reason, the

appointment of another person for the post so vacated, could be done with the consent of

the Minister – in - charge of subject, subject to the provisions of such paragraphs. The

member so appointed can hold office only for the term of office unexpired of his

predecessor.

(c)The minister – in – charge of subject, has powers to remove an appointed member from

office, if there are any reasonable ground, any appointed member also can resign from the

post on his own wish.

(VI) Members shall elect a person Chairman among them Chairman shall preside all meetings.

(VII) The secretary of the committee shall prepare the reports for the meetings.

(VII) The quorum of the hospital committee shall be three.

(IX ) As secretary of the Committee, the secretary shall submit reports of the meeting to the Secretary

of the ministry and to the commissioner.

23. The activities of the hospital development Committee so established shall be in the manner as

mentioned below.

(I)Making co-ordination between institution concerned and general public.

(II)Performing institutional development and welfare activates.

(III)Contributing to the supply of qualitative service through the institution to the recipients

service.

24. (I) The Development Committee shall meet at least once a month.

(i)A member of the committee or any person of the family including his/her spouse, cannot

enter into any contract with the indigenous hospital of the province.

(ii)The members of the hospital development Committee, when they perform their activity,

shall neither enter the hospital nor inspect the hospital without prior permission or shall not

use influence due to their membership of the committee.

Functions ofthe HospitalD e v e l o p m e n tCommittee.

IV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.20189A

PART VII

REGULATIONS

25. (I) The minister – in – charge of the subject may make the following rules.

(a) Provisions and Conditions for the registration of indigenous medical institution withinthe Northern Province.

(b)Fixing the fees for the registration of Indigenous medical institutions within the NorthernProvince.

(c) Provisions for the registration of any person as a person engaged in the indigenousmedical services.

(d)Records and forms which shall be used for registration as indigenous medical institutiona person doing indigenous medical service within Northern Province, and forms to beused for prosecution in court.

(e) Any other matters necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this statute.

(II) All rules so made shall be published in the Gazette and be effective from the date of such

publication or from a later date specified therein.

(III) All provisions so imposed, shall be submitted to the provincial council for approval withinthe period of three months after publishing same in the Gazette.

(IV) All rules which are not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval, without prejudice to the matters previously done.

26. The duties, tasks and powers under this statute, shall be performed by the Commissioner subject tothe supervision, inspection and arrangements of the secretary.

27. In the event of inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this statute the Tamiltext shall prevail.

28. In this statute, unless other meanings are required,

“Province” means the Northern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of Northern Province.

“Governor” means the Governor of the Northern Province.

“Minister – in – charge of the subject” means the minister to whom the subject of indigenousmedicine of the provincial Council of the Northern Province, has been assigned.

“Secretary” means the secretary of Provincial Ministry – in – charge of subject ofindigenous medicine.

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of indigenous medicine appointed for Department ofIndigenous medicine of Northern Provincial Council.

Rules to bemade by theMinister.

Responsibilityof theSecretary.

Tamil text toprevail in theevent of aninconsistency,

Interpretation.

10AIV^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'04'05PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2018

“Indigenous Medicine” means indigenous traditional medical system in Sri Lanka, Siddha,Ayurveda, Unani, and Yoga system or alternative medical system with nature and whole theoryand corresponding treatment method or curing science health treatment method, which are acceptedby other foreign countries and internationally and maintained with the approval in Sri Lanka.

“Those engaged in indigenous Medical Services” mean indigenous doctors, Pharmacists,instructors for Yoga system Attendants, Technologist and measures.

“Indigenous Medical practitioner” means, a person who is engaged in practicing indigenoustraditional medicine in Sri Lanka, Ashtanga, Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Yoga system or alternativemedical system with nature and whole Theory and corresponding treatment method or curingscience health treatment method, which are accepted by other foreign countries and internationallyand maintained with the approval in Sri Lanka.

“Indigenous Medical Institutions” means Government and private indigenous medical hospitals,Dispensaries, Central treatment centers, Indigenous medicine panchakarma centers, indigenousmedicine yoga system service centers and sales centers for marketing indigenous medicines andinstruments which are registered in indigenous medicine Department as shown under paragraphs(1) and (2) of section 7 of this statue.

“Indigenous medicine production” means medicines, cosmetics, food items related to Siddha,Ayurveda, Unani and traditional medicine.

04 – 709

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.