==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2118$41 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'04'09No. 2118/41 - TUESDAY APRIL 09, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4474—20 (04/2019)

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Statute of Agriculture bearing No. 03 of 2019 under the Southern Provincial Council

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, WaterSupplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Development of Southern ProvincialCouncil hereby inform to the General Public that the Statute of Agriculture No. 03 of 2019 which had already beenapproved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approval made dated 26.03.2019by the Southern Provincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation,Water Supplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade &Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial Council

4th Floor, Dakshinapaya,Labuduwa,Galle,At the Minister’s Office,Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province,Dated 01st April, 2019.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20192A

Concise name andthe date effective

Establishment ofthe Department ofAgriculture

Appointing theHead of theDepartment

THE AGRICULTURAL PRECEPT OF THE SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

A Precept for the benefit of the farming community in the Southern Province, with the intention ofuplifting the agricultural and allied products, do device and implement plans for the development ofagriculture within the purview of the Southern Provincial Council, by establishing a Provincial Departmentof Agriculture, by forming voluntary committees comprising, persons engage in agriculture, bydetermining the powers and functions of such committees and by providing ways and means for relatedevents. This precept is consistent with the Agricultural Ordinance (of Authority 441).

1. This Precept will be known as the Agriculture Precept of the Southern Provincial Council andwill come into effect from the day it is sanctioned by the Governor of Southern Province.

SECTION I

Southern Provincial Agriculture Department

2. For the benefit of the farming community in the Southern Province and with the intention ofuplifting the agricultural and allied products, a Southern Provincial Agriculture Department(Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Department’) will be established in the Southern Province.

3. In order to exercise the powers bestowed upon this department established under this precept,a Director, under the name and title of Southern Provincial Agriculture Director (Hereinafterreferred to as the ‘Director”) will be appointed and he/she will be the Head of the Departmentestablished under this article 2. This Director should be a Grade I officer of the Sri LankaAgriculture Service.

4.(1) This department will have powers, to appoint and additional Provincial Agriculture Director,two Deputy Provincial Agriculture Directors, Deputy Provincial Directors for the districts.Assistant Directors in charge of regions and training institutions and AgricultureInstructors in charge of technical services, Program Assistants-Agriculture, DevelopmentAssistants - Agriculture and, to appoint any other staff that the Department may feelnecessary, for the efficient management and administration of the affairs of the department.

(2) In the event where officers of the Government Services are required to be appointed tothe department, to maintain the required standard of management and for bettercoordination of affairs, the department has powers to make such appointments with theconcurrence of the secretary of the relevant line Ministry.

5. All the appointments, including that of the Director under Article 4 of this precept, are relevantto the provisions of article 32 of the 1987 Provincial Council Act, No. 42

6. The Department is allowed to establish institutions at the provincial, district, Pradeshsiya andVillage levels to achieve its objectives, with the permission of the Secretary to the Ministry.

SECTION II

The Purpose of the Department, It’s objectives and Duties

7. The purpose of the Department is to be the principal contributor to the Gross National Productof the country by rendering all arable land in the Southern Province to be cultivated withagricultural crops in propagating food production and in making a contribution to the sustainablefood production.

Appointing thestaff

Establishing Suboffices with theapproval of theSecretary

The purpose ofthe Department

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

8. The objectives of the department.

(a) The proper execution of the agricultural extension works and the training activities relatedthereto.

(b) The planning, executing, supervision and monitoring all agricultural development extensionactivity initiated under the advice of the Minister and to manage such development activityand programs by bringing those under media supervision.

(c) The conducting of soil conservation work connected to the agricultural lands of the area,the elimination of losses due to pest and other fungal infections of varied agriculturalcrops and to establish and activate units based on existing agriculture extension offices,to control pests, fungal infections and to prevent the spread of fungal infections in thearea.

(d) The maintenance, improvement and development of existing training centres with theview of providing the required training and acclimatisation to the farmers engaged inagricultural pursuits in the area and the preparation of plans to improve their skills andapprenticeships, deploying modern technical knowledge.

(e) Establishing and supervision of village agriculture societies under the guidance andsupervision of area agricultural instructors and registering such societies under theMinistry of Agriculture.

(f) Executing programs to encourage and develop voluntary youth participation in theagriculture activity and the registration of voluntary youth farmer societies associatedwith such work and managing such societies providing constitutional provisions necessaryfor their activation.

(g) Ensure that the execution of varied agricultural programs initiated in the area are conductedsubject to the approval of the Secretary of the Ministry or a person delegated with dueauthority by the Secretary and also ensure that those are subjected to the due technicalinterventions by the Ministry.

(h) Work towards obtaining monetary and material contributions from local and foreignsources in the accomplishment of department’s responsibilities subject to the limits ofexisting documented legal frame work.

(i) Execute required programs to ensure that the department staff is provided with facilitiesto equip themselves with modern knowledge and to horn their skills abreast of the times.

(j) Install a task evaluation system to assess the quality of services provided by the officersof the department and their expenditius execution with the view of improving the qualitativestandard of the services rendered to the public by the department.

(k) Collect data and information on persons and organizations engaged in agricultural activityin the area and to maintain an Agricultural information centre for the benefit of agriculture.

(l) Engage in any other activity that will help patronize the above objectives.

9. The powers, objectives and duties of the Director.

(a) To carry out the duties entrusted in line with the objectives of the Department.

The Objectives ofthe Department

The directorspowers/objectives& duties

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20194A

(b) To grant the required approval when cultivations and crops that are not endemic to theSouthern Province are being established in the province.

(c) To inspect, or to appoint a person with delegated authority to inspect, any agriculturalfarm, Government of Private, in the area after having issued suitable notice of suchinspection.

(d) In the event where an entrepreneur of the area is producing organic fertilizer forcommercial purposes to register such entrepreneur having considered the quality of suchfertilizer.

(e) To issue and publish directives and methodology and to make Gazette notification fromtime to time, with regard to the issue of agricultural chemicals in a context whereagricultural chemicals are issued by certain vendors without written requests fromagricultural instructors.

(f) To decide on all agricultural development activity conducted in the area.

(g) To delegate authority to the Agricultural instructors to inspect and report on the cultivationof inappropriate crops in the area.

(h) To register voluntary Agricultural Development Organizations and to cancel suchregistrations when so registered organisations act contrary to the declared objectives ofthe precept and are engaged in irregular activity.

SECTION III

Voluntary Organizations for Agricultural Development

10.

(a) The formation of voluntary organizations of farmers, by farmers engaged in agriculturalactivity is permitted, and such organizations could carry a name of their choosing.

(b) The Director should formulate a common and standard constitution on regulate thevoluntary agricultural organizations.

(c) These voluntary agricultural organizations could be established at village, Pradeshiya,District and Provincial levels

SECTION IV

Provincial Advisory Committees

11.

(1) An Advisory Committee should be appointed to advise the Minister, on, an agriculturalmatter or matters initiated by the Minister.

(2) The Provincial Advisory Committee should comprise of the following persons :

EstablishingVoluntaryAgriculturalOrganizations

Establishing theProvincialAdvisoryCommittee

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(a) Persons appointed by virtue of their office

(I) The Secretary to the Provincial Minister

(II) the Director of Agriculture for the Southern Province.

(b) Four appointees appointed by the Minister who possess specialized knowledge inagriculture and who also possess a post graduate degree or an equivalent or higheracademic qualification and one other person who is a member of a registeredagricultural organization holding office in a District Agricultural board of the area,also appointed by the Minister.

(3) The Secretary to the Ministry should be the Chairman of the Committee.

(4) The Director of Agriculture should be the Secretary of the Committee.

(5) A remuneration for the members of the Advisory Committee could be arranged with theapproval with the Minister and in concurrence with the Provincial Minister of Finance.

(6) Every member of the committee should continue to serve the committee for two fullyears, unless the service is ended due to death, resignation or removal from office andthe member is entitled for consideration to be re-appointed to office unless the memberis removed from the Committee.

(7) Members who are appointed to the advisory committee, by virtue of their office shouldcontinue to be members as long as they hold such office.

(8) In the event where a vacancy arises in the committee due to death, resignation or removalof an appointed member, the Minister may appoint an alternate member to replace thatmember. A member appointed under such circumstances may continue to be a member ofthe committee for the balance period that his predecessor left unserved.

(9) In a situation where a member of the committee absents him/her self for a temporaryperiod of time due to sickness or been away from the country, the Minister may appointanother person to serve in the committee during that period of absence of the permanentmember.

(10) The Minister may remove a member appointed after having forwarded reasons for suchremoval.

(11) An appointed member may resign from the committee at any time, by informing theMinister of the fact that he is resigning from the committee by a written intimation sentthrough registered post.

12.(1) The advisory committee should meet at least once in every two months or that many timethat it is required to meet, in order to accomplish the tasks, set by the precept.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the committee shall be three members.

(3) It is the responsibility of the Committee Secretary to ensure that the minutes of thecommittee meetings are received by the Minister and the members of the committee.

The meetings

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20196A

(4) The procedure of work with regard to committee meetings and workings during the meetingsof the advisory committee, should be regularised by the committee itself, subject to theother provisions of the Precept.

SECTION V

General Provisions

13. The monies for the expenses incurred by the Department and the institutions established underthe department, in the performance of their duties and tasks under this precept, should be madeavailable from the monies of the Provincial Council Fund.

14. If the Director, or a person authorized by the director in writing, requests certain items ofinformation, for the furtherance of the objectives of this precept, at any time, from any personof institution, it shall be the responsibility of that institution or person to provide the requestedinformation to the director of person authorized by the director.

15.(1) The Director should submit an annual administrative report to the Minister every year,within four months of the lapse of that year, detailing the manner in which agriculturalactivities were carried out, the problems that arose during the course of such activity, thesolutions offered an any other activity material to the pursuit of the subject of agriculture.

(2) The Administrative report submitted as per clause (1) above should be tabled at theProvincial Council by the Minister within a reasonable time.

16. The Minister may issue, special or general directives in writing to the department on the exercisepowers by the department, and the department should execute those directives.

17.(1) The Minister may, under this precept, institute directions with regard to the followingmatters or on any other matter relevant to the objectives of the precept :

(a) In formulating conditions relevant to registration of Organic fertilizer manufactures.

(b) In formulating conditions relevant to the registration of Voluntary AgriculturalDevelopment Organization and in specifying the specimen forms used in registration.

(c) On any other matter that falls within the purview of this precept.

(2) All directions formulated and issued by the Minister should be published in the Gazettenotification and shall be effective, either from the date of such publication or from thedate mentioned as the effective date in the publication.

(3) All directions formulated under clause (1) above, should be forwarded to the ProvincialCouncil for approval after their publication in the Gazette notification and in the eventwhere any such direction fails to gain approval, that direction should be considered asrescinded from the date of such rejection without any adverse effect on actions initiatedas per that direction prior to the date of such rejection.

(4) The date on which such directions are rescinded should be published in the Gazettenotification.

18. The following items/activity are an offence under this precept :

Finances

The power toobtain informationrelevant toAgriculture withinthe Province

AnnualAdministrativeReport

Power to issueDirectives

Directions

Offences &Penalties

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(1) The misappropriation of agricultural aid or equipment granted by the Government or theProvincial Council, for the purpose of agricultural development and the disposal of, orrendering of, those to be used by a third party without the knowledge of the Director ;

(2) Acting in contravention of the directives issued by the Director on agricultural pursuits ;

(3) Acting in hindrance to any officer during the course of exercising power under this Preceptby any officer or person.

(4) Disobeying the orders issued by the Director or Assistant Director in charge of the area,on an agricultural issue, in preventing the spread at national or provincial scale, of acalamitous situation cause to agriculture due to biological or chemical reasons.

(5) To act deliberately or otherwise is propagating seeds or pesticides foreign to the SouthernProvince in a manner inimical to the legitimate crops cultivated in the province.

(6)(1) To activate or accomplish agricultural projects or activity that does not meet withthe Directors concurrence.

(2) Those who are alleged to have committed one or more of the above offenses,having found guilty at a summary trial conducted by a Magistrate, should be penalizedeither by a fine of not less than rupees ten thousand or a term of imprisonment notexceeding six months or by one of the methods mentioned, or should be subjectedto both, a fine and a term of imprisonment.

19. Unless an alternative interpretation is necessitated in the terms used in this Precept, the term :

“Provincial Council” should mean the Southern Province or Provincial Council,

“Minister” should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Agriculture in the SouthernProvincial Council,

“Secretary” should mean the Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture in the SouthernProvince,

“Agricultural land” should mean a land that could be used for cultivation of paddy, privateland that could be put to agricultural use or lands that have been dispossessed under theLand Development Ordinance, the Government Land Ordinance or any other Act,

“Inappropriate crops” should mean crops not recommended to the area and crops that arenot permitted by Law,

“Pests” should mean any form of life, that may prevent the growth of an agricultural crop orcauses to adversely affect its good health and productivity of that crop.

“Province” should mean the Southern Province.

20. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions ofthis Precept, the Sinhala version should be taken to prevail.

04 - 889

Definitions

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.