==== BLOCKS ==== 

wxl 2047$6 - 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 27 jeks i÷od - 2017'11'27

No. 2047/6 – MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 2017

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

EXTRAORDINARY

w;s úfYI

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www. documents.gov.lk

1A - PG 3783 - 12 (2017/11)

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Provincial Councils Notifications

SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Industrial Development Authority of Provincial Statute No. 14 of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council

Honourable Chairman of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council certified on 26.09.2017.

Honourable Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council assented on 02.11.2017.

Printed by order of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council

SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY STATUTE NO. 14 OF 2017 OF THE SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

INDUSTRIAL Development Authority Statute No. 14 of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Which is Passed bythe Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council on 26.09.2017 and assented by the Honourable Governor of the SabaragamuwaProvince on 02.11.2017, is here by published for the information of the public.

P. S. R. M. WIJAYARAJA,

Council Secretary,Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

Councial Secretariat,Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,22nd November , 2017.

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.20172A

SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 14 of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa

Provincial Council

Sabaragamuwa Provincial Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 04 of 1990 shall be repealed and abrogate with the enactment of this Statue.

Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 14 of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa

Provincial Council

The Statutes to enact regulations to establish an Industrial Development Authority on behalf ofestablishment of Industrial, Commerce, Business & Income Generation projects, Development & Promotionand consequential factors in connection with it.

Be it therefore enacted by Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka as follows.

01. This Charter may be Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 14 of 2017 of Sabaragamuwa

Provincial Council and the effective date shall be the date on which the Provincial Governor approvesthe Statute by setting his seal.

02. (i) With effect from such date as may be determined by Hon. Governor of Sabaragamuwa Provincial

Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka there shall be established an Authoritycalled the " Industrial Development Authority" ( Herein after " the Authority" means the IndustrialDevelopment Authority).

(ii)The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (01), be a body corporate havingperpetual succession and a Common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name, and mayperform such acts as bodies corporate may by law perform.

03. (i) The Authority shall be consist of 08 members appoint by the Minister of Industry of Sabaragamuwa

Provincial Council.

(A) Two persons who possess special ability and qualification regarding the subject and objectives ofthe Authority as Determine by the Minister

(B) A member nominate by the Minister in charge of Finance Subject of Sabaragamuwa ProvincialCouncil.

(C) Sabaragamuwa Provincial Director of Industrial Development

(D) Accountant of the Ministry of Industry

(E) Assistant Director of Development Assistant of National Craft Council.

(F) An Engineer from engineering Service Unit of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

(G) Secretary or his representative of Industrial Ministry of Sabaragamuwa Province.

(ii) The Minister may, appoint one of the members to be the Chairman of the Authority.

Short title &date ofOperation

Establishmentof IndusrialDevelopmentAuthority

Constitution ofthe Board ofDirectors

Chairman of theAuthority

ThatSabaragamuwaProvincialIndustrialDevelopmentAuthorityStatute No. 04of 1990 shall berepealed andabrogate

3AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2017

Disqualificationfor beingappointed as

(iii) The Director - General shall be appointed on the power of his office upon the approval of theMinister.

(iv) The General Manager of the Authority shall be entitle to all the allowances and benefits allow for aDirector of the Board of Directors.

04. A Person

(A) Shall be disqualified from being appointed or from continuing as a Director if he is a member ofparliament or a member of a Provincial Council; or

(B) If there is a financial or any other bond may be affected prejudicially in actig as a member of theAuthority

05. (i) Every member shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of his appointment, unless he

earlier vacates office by death, resignaion, removal or transferring out of Sabaragamuwa ProvincialCouncil and qualified for reappointment.

(ii) Where any Director is removed of his Office on account of death, ill health, absence from theRepublic the Minister may appoint any person to act in place of such Director according to Paragraph03 to fill such vacancy and such person shall hold office for the unexpired period of the term of officeof the Director whom he succeds.However in the event of a new Minister of Industry is appointed Boardof Directors including the Chairman shall be Dissolved and new Board of Directors and a Chairman shallbe appointed.

(iii) Where any member is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on account of ill health,absence from the Republic or any other cause, the Minister may appoint any person to act in place ofsuch member for the period of his absence according to the regulations mentioned in paragraph 03 inthe way of the temporary absent member was first appointed.

06. (i) The Seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of the General Manager of the Authority.

(ii) The Seal of the Authority may be altered in Authority such manner as may be determined by theAuthority.

07. (i) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to do so, remove, any Member of the Authority appointed

in accordance with Section three from office without reason stated.

(ii) In the event removal of a Member in respect of sub section one (01) such decision shall not bequestioned by any court.

08. Any member including Chairman of the Authority may resign his office by written communication

addressed to the Minister in any occasion.

09. The Chairman & Members Directors of the Authority shall be remunerated at such rates and in such

manner and shall be subject to the terms and conditions determined by the Minister.

10. (i) The Directors - General shall preside at all meeting of the Authority and in his absence any Director

elected by the Directors shall preside at such meeting.

(ii) Quoram of any meeting of the authority shall be four

(iii) Decisions for all the problems in any meeting of the authority, shall be decided on the consent of thequorum of present members. If the members have been divided in equally the Chairman shall receive theCritical Vote.

Team of Officeof the membersof the Authority

Seal of theAuthority

Removal of themember of theAuthority

Resignation ofthe member ofthe Authority

Remunerationof the Chairmanand Membersof the Authority

Meeting &quorum atmeeting of theAuthority

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.20174A

11. No act or Proceeding of the Authority shall be invalid by reason only of any vacancy among its

Directors or any defect in the appointment of any of its Directors.

12. Authority, on the approval of the Minister appoints a well qualified & experience person as the General

Manager of the Authority.

13. Authority

(A) May appoint , dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over the staff of the Authority.

(B) Fix the Salary, wages or other remuneration of such staff and pay by the fund of the Authority.

(C) Regulations of the Establishment code are not applicable to staff work under the authority, otherthan the employees appointed from the public service or provincial public service.

(D) A Trust fund and other program may be established and conduct for the benefit of the Staff & paythe contribution.

(E) Determine the terms and conditions of service of such staff.

(F) Authority may work for the welfare, insurance & emergency disasters of the emloyees & officials.

(G) The Chairman & Board of Directors vested the power of appointment the officials & the employeesto the institutions of the Authority on the approval of the Minister.The Secretary of the Ministry andthe General Manager has such powers to sign such appointment letters. The Secretary of the Ministryhas powers to appoint the Officers already in public or provincial public service to the posts as deemnecessary.

(H) The Chairman & Board of Directors are vested power of selecting staff for the Authority. TheSecretary may exercise disciplinary control on the recommendation of the Borad of Directors.

14. (a) To Plan and implement the policies for industrial development in such manner determine by the

provincial council.

(b) to start, encourage, assist, uplift and develop the commerce, business, industries and other projects.

(c) To provide and distribute raw materials and local technology.

(d) To get and provide information and knowledge on industrial development.

(e) To initiate programmers for employees's welfare of the Authority.

(f) To conduct programmers for the an employment with the fund receive from other institutions and toprovide management and technical skills, training and marketing facilities necessary for those who arein industries.

(g) Industrial Research and development affairs.

(h) To appoint the staff necessary to the works of the Authority and delegation of powers to them.

(i) To make regulations for the administration of the works of the authority.

(j) To charge for the facilities and services of the authority.

(k) Any other actions and things relevant in implementation of powers, Services and takes there of.

(l) To assist in provision of capital.

15. (i) There shall be a fund for the Authority. They shall be credited to the fund of the Authority.

Powers of theauthority on theStaff

Funds of theAuthority

Vacancy amongDirectors not toInvalidate actsand Proceedings.

GeneralManager.

Power andfunctions of theAuthority

5AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.2017

(A) Allocations of the annual budget of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

(B) Grants given by the Sri Lanka or outside sources.

(C) Money transferred by any act to the Authority.

(D) Interest earned by capital & loans provided by the Authority, charges of the services provided tothe organizations belong to public or private sector, a group, society or individual.

16. Administration, Management and control of the fund shall be assigned to the Authority

17. (i) The financial year of the Authority shall be a calendar year

(ii) The Authority shall be maintained due registers for all the income, expenditures assets and debetsand all other transactions

(iii) Sections 154 of the constitution of Sri Lanka shall be relevant to of the authority.

(iv) The auditing report shall be presented to the Provincial Council be before each financial year afterpresented to the Minister.

18. All the staff of the authority shall be regarded as the public officers by mean of the penal code and it's

function.

19. The authority shall be regarded as institution of sub schedule by mean of the Bribery Act.

20. (i) Authority shall conduct according to the financial regulations of Sabaragamuwa Provincial and

Public Financial Regulations.

(ii) In case of any Institute may be closed and legally closed, stable and unstable properties shall beassigned to the Authority.Similarly, the debits of such institute or service shall be assign to the Authorityand Authority shall fulfill such tasks properly. In such occasions such properties shall be sold and fulfillthe responsibilities.

(iii) An annual survey shall be conducted for every institute and service belong to the Authority and theSecretary of the Ministry shall possess such powers. A copy of the report directed to the Chairman ofthe Authority by the Secretary shall be directed to the Auditor General .

(iv) Audit Reports sent by Auditor General and Internal Audit section shall discuss by the board ofdirectors. The board of Directors shall bear the responsibility of answering for the audit quires andtaking correcting measure for the defects.

21. On the approval of the board of directors in writing, the chairman shall delegate power, service and tasks

to any employee.

Assistants andGifts

Control of thefund

Financial yearand auditing ofthe Authority

Staff of theauthority shallbe publicofficers.

Regarded as ainstitute of theSub scheduleby mean ofBribery Act.

FinancialControl of theAuthority

Delegation ofpower to staffby theChairman.

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27PART IV(A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.11.20176A

AnnualAllowancereceived bythe Authority.

22. Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council shall release to the Authority to bare the expense of paying workers'

wages, allowances and others to maintain the properties under the Authority and for the service tasksand bonds mention in this statue.

23. Money necessary to the Authority to fulfill the services of the Authority or bond of the Authority.

Under this statues shall be taken by the Authority a loan through an over depositor such other way onthe consent of the Minister or under such general approval or order by him.

24. (i) The Minister shall command to the authority in connection with the affairs of the Authority shall

fulfill the commands.

(ii) Minister shall order to provide reports and details of the Authority and authority shall provide suchreports and details as soon as possible.

25. (i) Minister may make order on the matters relevant to the Authority.

(ii) Every order made by the Minister shall be presented for the approval of the cabinet.

(iii) They shall be forwarded to the approval of the provincial council after cabinet approval and thenpublish in the Gazette.

26. Sabaragamuwa Provincial Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 04 of 1990 shall be repealed

and abrogate with the enactment of this statue. The effective date shall be the date on which theProvincial Governor approves the Statute by setting his seal.

27. (i) In the Event of Contrast between this Statue and any other existing law regulations of this Statue

shall prevail.

(ii) In the event of any inconsistency between Tamil and English texts of this Statue, the Sinhala textshall prevail.

28. In this statue unless there be repugnant in the context.

" Minister " shall mean the Minister in charge of the Industry Subject of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

" Provincial Council " shall mean Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

" Cabinet " shall mean the Cabinet of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

" Secretary " shall mean the Secretary of the Minister of Industry of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.

12 - 321

Power oftaking loans

Commands ofthe Minister

Order

Interpretation

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.