==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.10.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1990$48 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 29 jeks fikiqrdod - 2016'10'29No.1990/48 - SATURDAY OCTOBER 29, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

IN accordance to the Schedule Eight of the 13th Amendment of the Consitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic ofSri Lanka the powers vested on the Provincial Council as per the Regulations 24 (2) (1) (xii) and 24 (3) of the Route PassengerTransport Act, No. 04 of 1992 and by the order under Section 20 of the regulations of the Passenger Transport ServiceAuthority Statute No. 01 of 2000.

I, Ediriweera Weerawardana, Minister of Central Province Road Development, Transport, Power and Energy andHousing and Construction by the Provincial Council as per the regulations 24 (2) (1) (xii) and 24 (3) of the Route PassengerTransport Act, No. 04 of 1992 and by the order under Section 20 of the regulations of the Passenger Transport ServiceAuthority Act, No. 01 of 2000 and on the powers vested on me and in accordance to the Special Gazette NotificationNo. 1990/27 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 27th October, 2016 it is hereby ordered as published in thisGazette that in respect of the new system of Passenger Transport by the order constituted and in addition to the order thefollowing orders by the Central Province Passenger Transport Service Authority shall be followed.

01.(i)It shoud be declared to recognize a transport Unit either by incorporating one Bus route service or several Busroutes together within the area of a Bus route from the date of the order of the Minister within a period ofTwelve months by the Central Province Passenger Transport service,

(ii)The appointment of a manager for the administration of the new system of the route Unit as declared,

(iii)To incorporate a Route Administration room for the route unit for one or more as declared.

02.(i)From the date of announcement of the Route Unit by the Central Province Passenger Transport Service orspecially within the period the permit holders of a route or several routes shall provide transportation to suchroute or routes as authorized by the permit under the administration under the Manager appointed by the Authorityon behalf of such passenger service of the route and to abide by the advice and time table laid down by themanager from time to time and to render an efficient bus service accordingly.

(ii)The Permit Holders shall provide suitable passenger transport by rendering and maintaining an efficient serviceand to install and use a GSP Equipment to the bus with the facility of installing and using the facilities of aCCTV camera and the utilization of a post payment card to issue electronic tickets by way of G. R. P. D. EquipmentTechnology.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'29PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.10.20162A

(iii)All income derived daily shall credit all proceeds to the account maintained in the name of the Central ProvincePassenger Transport Service opened for this purpose in the Government Bank. From this income the service forprepaid Cards shall be deducted and the full balance of the income for the bus plying on the same day inaccordance to the proportion of the pre budget shall be deposited to the owner of the bus accordingly.

03.In accordance to the Order No. 01 All route Buses in the Central Province shall abide the regulations set out inthis Gazette from the date of publication,

04.Further it is declared to nominate not more than eight members to render suggestions and ideas for the purposeof development and improvement of this service and to incorporate a transport unit or several units for themanagement an advisory committee to be nominated this committee shall provide Advice services to increasethe income, distribution of income, Salaries to Employees and a method to secure their social security and busmaintenance thereof,

05.All service administration and the power of the comfortability of passengers and the introduction of new serviceshall be sole vested with the Central Province Passenger Transport Service,

06.(i)The Central Province Passenger Transport Service shall announce the auditors to a declared transport Unit for thepurpose of accounting the financial and technical auditing.

(ii)To keep the Audit reports open for inspection at all times to all permit holders of a transport unit or to each andevery Route or the Central Province Passenger Transport Service shall provide such facilities.

(iii)Further the said Auditor shall forward to the Provincial Council through the relevant the yearly Audit.

EDIRIWEERA WEERAWARDENA,Minister of Road Development, Transport,Power and Energy and Housing and Construction,Central Province.

On this 28th day of October, 2016,Kandy,At the Central Provincial Road Development,Transport, Power and Energy and Housing and Construction Minister's Office.

11-683

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.