==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1993$34 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'11'18No. 1993/34 - FRIDAY NOVEMBER 18, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008

Notification under Section 3(4)

BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(4) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008as amended, I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in charge of the subject of Development Strategies andInternational Trade, in consultation with the Miniser in charge of the subject of Finance, do by this notification -

(1) The Notification identify the project to undertake Re-development and Mixed Development Project(“Project”) on a land in extent of 8 acres located at Slave Island, Colombo 02 (“said area”) in the WesternProvince with an envisaged investment of United States Dollars Four Hundred and Twenty Nine decimalFive Million (US$ 429.5 Million) which includes foreign direct investment of United States Dollars OneHundred and Thirty Million (US$ 130 Million) which will as a Strategic Development Project for the purposeof the aforesaid Act, was published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1973/58 dated 30th June, 2016.

(2) In terms of Sub-Section (3) of Section (3) of the aforesaid Act, the approval of Cabinet of Ministers hasbeen obtained to declare the project to undertake Re-development and Mixed Development Project on aland in extent of 8 acres located at Slave Island, Colombo 02 in the Western Province with an envisagedinvestment of United States Dollars Four Hundred and Twenty Nine decimal Five Million (US$ 429.5Million) which includes foreign direct investment of United State Dollars One Hundred and Thirty Million(US$ 130 Million) as a Strategic Development Project.

(3) The above Strategic Develoment Project shall be called and known as the project to undertake Re-developmentand Mixed Development Project on a land in extent of 8 acres located at Slave Island, Colombo 02 in theWestern Province and the Project Company to undertake this project is M/S ONE COLOMBO PROJECT(PRIVATE) LIMITED.

(4) The Project Company shall implement and commence commercial operations in the said area within Eight(08) years from the date of the Project Agreement signed between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka andthe Project Company. (Project Agreement).

(5) The Exemptions from the anactments specified in the Schedule to this Order shall apply to the ProjectCompany from the date of the Project Agreement subject to the limitations mentioned therein.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'18PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.11.20162A

SCHEDULE I

(1) INLAND REVENUE ACT, NO. 10 OF 2006

(i) Corporate Income Tax

The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income taxshall not apply for a period of Ten (10) years to the profit of the Project other than the sale of apartmentsand only a tax exemption period of six (06) years for the income generated through sale of apartments.

The said Tax Exemption Period shall commence from the year in which the Project Company makestaxable profit or six (06) years after commencement of construction of the projects, whichever occursearlier.

After the expiry of the tax holiday period, on the profit generated form activities other than the sale ofapartments, fifty per centum (50%) of Corporate Tax shall be applicable for six (06) years.

For avoidance of doubt, after the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period and the concessionaryperiod, income tax in respect of the profit and income of the Project Company shall be applicable interms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.

(ii) Tax on Dividends

Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the incometax during the said tax exemption period of Ten (10) years or six (06) years as the case may be and one(01) year thereafter.

(iii) Withholding Tax

The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following :

(a) on interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees paid toconsultants ;

(b) on management fees and royalty payments provided however the total of such charges does notexceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue ;

(c) on marketing fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five percentum (1.5%) of the gross operating revenue ; and

(d) on incentive management fees provided howerver the total of such fees does not exceed ten percentum (10%) of the gross operating profit.

(iv) PAYE Tax

The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Pay As You EarnTax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number offifteen (15) employees at any given time. Subject to such ceiling, this exemption shall be applicablefor expatriate staff for a period of five (05) years from the date of the Project Agreement signedbetween the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company. Provided however, no singleemployee shall be given this exemption for a period of excess of five (05) years. Further, the ProjectCompany shall be required to gradually replace expatriate staff with local employees on a best effortsbasis.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'18PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.11.20163A

(2) VALUE ADDED TAX (VAT) ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

All imports of project related goods and local purchases of project related goods or services required forthe implementation of the projects as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exemptedfrom the payment of Value Added Tax (VAT), during the project implementation period of eight (08) years.Any contractor or a sub-contractor who supplies to such contractor, to the project, will be entitled to thedeferment as permitted in the VAT Act.

The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of VAT as provided in the VAT Act, No. 14 of 2002 fromthe commencement of commercial operations.

(3) PORTS AND AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT LEVY (PAL) ACT, NO. 18 OF 2011

The project company shall be exempted from the payment and charge of ports and Airports DevelopmentLevy (PAL), on the project related goods as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka importedduring the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years. The exemption shall be applicable on directimports by the Project Company for the Project or on imports by a contractor or sub-contractor for thepurposes of the Project, so long as the consignee of such goods is the Project Company, subject to thecondition referred to in item No. (05) below.

(4) THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 5 OF 2005

The Project Company/Contractors shall be exempted from Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levyimposed under the Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 in relation to the Project.

(5) CUSTOMS DUTY ON IMPORTATION OF PROJECT RELATED ITEMS [CUSTOMS ORDINANCE - CHAPTER 235]

Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any otherproject related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported in the name of theProject Company implementing the Project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of theProject whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through the contractors of sub-contractors to the contractors provided that the goods consigned in the name of the Project Company otherthan the items mentioned in the Negative List within the project implementation period of Eight (08) years.The items in the Negative List will be also exempted from the Customs Duty where such items are either notwholly produced in Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Projectcompletion.

As such, in general, project related goods could be imported through a contractor or a sub-contractor inrespect of the project within the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years as provided above, onlyif the Project Company is named as the consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have been donealong with any other imports, the Project Company shall be solely responsible to ensure that the concessionsnoted herein shall be available only to project related goods of the Project Company. If so, for any reasonthis condition has been violated, taxes and levies payable under laws and regulations prevailing at the timeshall apply to all goods that do not form part of project related goods for the project and such taxes shallbecame payable forthwith, It is noted that any personal effects imported by the Project Company for theprivate/personal use of any employee, consultant or any other of the Project Company shall not be treated asproject related goods. It is further noted that in view of the exemptions/concessions granted to the ProjectCompany under the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, no tenant or any other partyassociating with the project or the project company will be granted any exemptions or concessions in viewof or consequent to such association.

MALIK SAMARAWICKRAMA, (MP),Minister of Development Strategiesand International Trade.Colombo,15th November, 2016.

12-214

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.