==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

PG 2312 - (2014/12)This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, No. 15 OF 1995

Publication under Section 4 (2)

BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”),the Institute has adopted the changes to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards – (SLFRS & LKAS) with effect from 01st January,2014, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. Thesechanges shall be effective for financial statements covering period commeccing on or after the First day of January TwoThousand Fourteen.

By Order of the Council,

ARUNA ALWIS, Secretary.

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,No. 30A,Malalasekera Mawatha,Colombo 07.31st December, 2014.

N. B.- This Gazette is printed in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages Separately.

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYI

wxl 1895$17 - 2014 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks nodod - 2014'12'31No. 1895/17 - WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 31, 2014

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Changes with effect from 01 st January 2014

CONTENTS

[1]Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements[2]SLFRS 1 - First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs)[3]SLFRS 2 - Share-based Payment[4]SLFRS 3 - Business Combinations[5]SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts[6]SLFRS 5 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations[7]SLFRS 6 - Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources[8]SLFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosure[9]SLFRS 8 - Operating Segments[10]SLFRS 10 - Consolidated Financial Statements[11]SLFRS 11 - Joint Arrangements[12]SLFRS 12 - Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities[13]SLFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement[14]LKAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements[15]LKAS 2 - Inventories[16]LKAS 7 - Statement of Cash Flows[17]LKAS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors[18]LKAS 10 - Events after the Reporting Period[19]LKAS 11 - Construction Contracts[20]LKAS 12 - Income Taxes[21]LKAS 16 - Property, Plant & Equipment[22]LKAS 17 - Leases[23]LKAS 18 - Revenue[24]LKAS 19 - Employee Benefits[25]LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance[26]LKAS 21 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates[27]LKAS 23 - Borrowing Costs[28]LKAS 24 - Related Party Disclosures[29]LKAS 26 - Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans[30]LKAS 27 - Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements[31]LKAS 28 - Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures[32]LKAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies[33]LKAS 32 - Financial Instruments: Presentation[34]LKAS 33 - Earnings per Share[35]LKAS 34 - Interim Financial Reporting[36]LKAS 36 - Impairment of Assets[37]LKAS 37 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets[38]LKAS 38 - Intangible Assets[39]LKAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement[40]LKAS 40 - Investment Property[41]LKAS 41 - Agriculture

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements

No Changes

SLFRS 1 - First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs)

Existing ParaReferenceReplaced /added paragraph

Para 4ANotwithstanding the requirements in paragraphs 2 and 3, an entity that has applied SLFRSs in aprevious reporting period, but whose most recent previous annual financial statements did not con-tain an explicit and unreserved statement of compliance with SLFRSs, must either apply this SLFRS orelse apply SLFRSs retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes inAccounting Estimates and Errors as if the entity had never stopped applying SLFRSs.

Para 4BWhen an entity does not elect to apply this SLFRS in accordance with paragraph 4A, the entity shallnevertheless apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 23A-23B of SLFRS 1, in addition to thedisclosure requirements in LKAS 8.

Para 19Deleted

Para 21An entity's first SLFRS financial statements shall include at least three statements of financial posi-tion, two statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, two separate statements ofprofit or loss (if presented), two statements of cash flows and two statements of changes in equity andrelated notes, including comparative information for all statements presented.

Para 23AAn entity that has applied SLFRSs in a previous period, as described in paragraph 4A, shall disclose:

(a)the reason it stopped applying SLFRSs; and

(b)the reason it is resuming the application of SLFRSs.

Para 23BWhen an entity, in accordance with paragraph 4A, does not elect to apply SLFRS 1, the entity shallexplain the reasons for electing to apply SLFRSs as if it had never stopped applying SLFRSs.

Para 29A[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in thisedition.]

Use of deemed cost for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates

Para 31Similarly, if an entity uses a deemed cost in its opening SLFRS statement of financial position for aninvestment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate in its separate financial statements (see para-graph D15), the entity's first SLFRS separate financial statements shall disclose:

Para 34An entity shall apply this SLFRS if its first SLFRS financial statements are for a period beginning onor after 1 January 2012. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies this SLFRS for an earlierperiod, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 39ISLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April2013, amended paragraphs 31, B7, C1, D1, D14 and D15 and added paragraph D31. An entity shallapply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11.

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 39JSLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in April 2013, deleted paragraph 19, amended the defini-tion of fair value in Appendix A and amended paragraphs D15 and D20. An entity shall apply thoseamendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 39KPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraph 21. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies LKAS 1 as amended in2014.

Para 39LLKAS 19 Employee Benefits (as amended in 2013) amended paragraph D1, deleted paragraphs D10and D11 and added paragraph E5. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies LKAS 19(as amended in 2013).

Para 39MIFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine added paragraph D32 andamended paragraph D1. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies IFRIC 20

Para 39NGovernment Loans (Amendments to SLFRS 1), issued in 2014, added paragraphs B1(f) and B10-B12.An entity shall apply those paragraphs for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlierapplication is permitted.

Para 39OParagraphs B10 and B11 refer to SLFRS 9. If an entity applies this SLFRS but does not yet applySLFRS 9, the references in paragraphs B10 and B11 to SLFRS 9 shall be read as references to LKAS 39Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.

Para 39PAdoption of IASB's Annual Improvements (2009-2011 Cycle, issued in May 2012), added para-graphs 4A-4B and 23A-23B. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance withLKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periodsbeginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amend-ment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Para 39QAdoption of IASB's Annual Improvements (2009-2011 Cycle, issued in May 2012), amended para-graph D23. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning onor after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for anearlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Para 39RAdoption of IASB's Annual Improvements (2009-2011 Cycle, issued in May 2012), amended para-graph D23. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning onor after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for anearlier period it shall disclose that fact.Appendix A

Fair valueFair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderlytransaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13.)

Appendix B

Para B1An entity shall apply the following exceptions:

(a)derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities (paragraphs B2 and B3);

(b)hedge accounting (paragraphs B4-B6);

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(c)non-controlling interests (paragraph B7);

(d)[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not includedin this edition.]

(e)[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not includedin this edition.]

(f)government loans (paragraphs B10-B12).

Para B7A first-time adopter shall apply the following requirements of SLFRS 10 prospectively from the date oftransition to SLFRSs:

(a)the requirement in paragraph B94 that total comprehensive income is attributed to the ownersof the parent and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controllinginterests having a deficit balance;

(b)the requirements in paragraphs 23 and B93 for accounting for changes in the parent's ownershipinterest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control; and

(c)the requirements in paragraphs B97-B99 for accounting for a loss of control over a subsidiary,and the related requirements of paragraph 8A of SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale andDiscontinued Operations.

However, if a first-time adopter elects to apply SLFRS 3 retrospectively to past businesscombinations, it shall also apply SLFRS 10 in accordance with paragraph C1 of this SLFRS.

Para B8[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in thisedition.]

Para B9[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in thisedition.]

Government loans

Para B10A first-time adopter shall classify all government loans received as a financial liability or an equityinstrument in accordance with LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:Presentation. Except as permitted byparagraph B11, a first-time adopter shall apply the requirements in SLFRS 9 Financial Instrumentsand LKAS 20 Accounting forGovernment Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistanceprospectively to government loans existing at the date of transition to SLFRSs and shall not recognisethe corresponding benefit of the government loan at a below-market rate of interest as a governmentgrant. Consequently, if a first-time adopter did not, under its previous GAAP, recognise and measurea government loan at a below-market rate of interest on a basis consistent with SLFRS requirements,it shall use its previous GAAP carrying amount of the loan at the date of transition to SLFRSs as thecarrying amount of the loan in the opening SLFRS statement of financial position. An entity shallapply SLFRS 9 to the measurement of such loans after the date of transition to SLFRSs.

Para B11Despite paragraph B10, an entity may apply the requirements in SLFRS 9 and LKAS 20 retrospectivelyto any government loan originated before the date of transition to SLFRSs, provided that theinformation needed to do so had been obtained at the time of initially accounting for that loan.

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para B12The requirements and guidance in paragraphs B10 and B11 do not preclude an entity from being ableto use the exemptions described in paragraphs D19-D19D relating to the designation of previouslyrecognised financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.

Appendix CThis appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS. An entity shall apply the following requirements tobusiness combinations that the entity recognised before the date of transition to SLFRSs. ThisAppendix should only be applied to business combinations within the scope of SLFRS 3 BusinessCombinations.

C1A first-time adopter may elect not to apply SLFRS 3 retrospectively to past business combinations(business combinations that occurred before the date of transition to SLFRSs). However, if a first-timeadopter restates any business combination to comply with SLFRS 3, it shall restate all later businesscombinations and shall also apply SLFRS 10 from that same date. For example, if a first-time adopterelects to restate a business combination that occurred on 30 June 20X6, it shall restate all businesscombinations that occurred between 30 June 20X6 and the date of transition to SLFRSs, and it shallalso apply SLFRS 10 from 30 June 20X6.

Appendix D

Para D1An entity may elect to use one or more of the following exemptions:

(a)share-based payment transactions (paragraphs D2 and D3);

(b)insurance contracts (paragraph D4);

(c)deemed cost (paragraphs D5-D8B);

(d)leases (paragraphs D9 and D9A);

(e)[deleted]

(f)cumulative translation differences (paragraphs D12 and D13);

(g)investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (paragraphs D14 and D15);

(h)assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (paragraphs D16 and D17);

(i)compound financial instruments (paragraph D18);

(j)designation of previously recognised financial instruments (paragraph D19);

(k)fair value measurement of financial assets or financial liabilities at initial recognition (paragraphD20);

(l)decommissioning liabilities included in the cost of property, plant and equipment (paragraphsD21 and D21A);

(m)financial assets or intangible assets accounted for in accordance with IFRIC 12 ServiceConcession Arrangements (paragraph D22);

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(n)borrowing costs (paragraph D23);

(o)transfers of assets from customers (paragraph D24);

(p)extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments (paragraph D25);

(q)severe hyperinflation (paragraphs D26-D30);

(r)joint arrangements (paragraph D31); and

(s)stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine (paragraph D32).

Para 10Deleted

Para D11Deleted

Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates

Para D14When an entity prepares separate financial statements, LKAS 27 requires it to account for itsinvestments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either:

(a)at cost; or

(b)in accordance with LKAS 39.

Para D15If a first-time adopter measures such an investment at cost in accordance with LKAS 27, it shallmeasure that investment at one of the following amounts in its separate opening SLFRS statement offinancial position:

(a)cost determined in accordance with LKAS 27; or

(b)deemed cost. The deemed cost of such an investment shall be its:

(i)fair value at the entity's date of transition to SLFRSs in its separate financialstatements; or

(ii)previous GAAP carrying amount at that date.

A first-time adopter may choose either (i) or (ii) above to measure its investment in each subsidiary,joint venture or associate that it elects to measure using a deemed cost.

Para D16 (a)the carrying amounts that would be included in the parent's consolidated financial statements, basedon the parent's date of transition to SLFRSs, if no adjustments were made for consolidationprocedures and for the effects of the business combination in which the parent acquired the subsid-iary (this election is not available to a subsidiary of an investment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10, thatis required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss); or

Para D17However, if an entity becomes a first-time adopter later than its subsidiary (or associate or jointventure) the entity shall, in its consolidated financial statements, measure the assets and liabilities ofthe subsidiary (or associate or joint venture) at the same carrying amounts as in the financialstatements of the subsidiary (or associate or joint venture), after adjusting for consolidation andequity accounting adjustments and for the effects of the business combination in which the entityacquired the subsidiary. Notwithstanding this requirement, a non-investment entity parent shall not

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

apply the exception to consolidation that is used by any investment entity subsidiaries. Similarly, if aparent becomes a first-time adopter for its separate financial statements earlier or later than for itsconsolidated financial statements, it shall measure its assets and liabilities at the same amounts inboth financial statements, except for consolidation adjustments.

Para D19A-D19D[These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not included inthis edition.]

Para D20Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraphs 7 and 9, an entity may apply the requirements inparagraph AG76(a) of LKAS 39 prospectively to transactions entered into on or after the date oftransition to SLFRSs.

Para D23A first-time adopter can elect to apply the requirements of LKAS 23 from the date of transition or froman earlier date as permitted by paragraph 28 of LKAS 23. From the date on which an entity that appliesthis exemption begins to apply LKAS 23, the entity:

(a)shall not restate the borrowing cost component that was capitalised under previous GAAP andthat was included in the carrying amount of assets at that date; and

(b)shall account for borrowing costs incurred on or after that date in accordance with LKAS 23,including those borrowing costs incurred on or after that date on qualifying assets alreadyunder construction.

Joint arrangements

Para D31A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in SLFRS 11 with the following exceptions:

(a)When applying the transition provisions in SLFRS 11, a first-time adopter shall apply theseprovisions at the date of transition to SLFRS.

(b)When changing from proportionate consolidation to the equity method, a first-time adoptershall test for impairment the investment in accordance with LKAS 36 as at the date of transitionto SLFRS, regardless of whether there is any indication that the investment may be impaired.Any resulting impairment shall be recognised as an adjustment to retained earnings at the dateof transition to SLFRS.

Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine

Para D32A first-time adopter may apply the transitional provisions set out in paragraphs A1 to A4 of IFRIC 20Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine. In that paragraph, reference to theeffective date shall be interpreted as 1 January 2013 or the beginning of the first SLFRS reportingperiod, whichever is later.

Appendix EShort-term exemptions from SLFRSs

This appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS.

E1[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included inthis edition.]

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

E2[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not includedin this edition.]

Disclosures about financial instruments

E3A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in paragraph 44G of SLFRS 71.

E4A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in paragraph 44M of SLFRS 72.

Employee benefits

E5A first-time adopter may apply the transition provisions in paragraph 173(b) of LKAS 19.

Investment entities

E6A first-time adopter that is a parent shall assess whether it is an investment entity, as defined inSLFRS 10, on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist at the date of transition toSLFRSs.

E7A first-time adopter that is an investment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10, may apply thetransition provisions in paragraphs C3C-C3D of SLFRS 10 and paragraphs 18C-18G of LKAS 27if its first SLFRS financial statements are for an annual period ending on or before 31 December2014. The references in those paragraphs to the annual period that immediately precedes thedate of initial application shall be read as the earliest annual period presented. Consequently,the references in those paragraphs shall be read as the date of transition to SLFRSs.

SLFRS 2 - Share-based Payment

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 5As noted in paragraph 2, this SLFRS applies to share-based payment transactions in which an entityacquires or receives goods or services. Goods includes inventories, consumables, property, plant andequipment, intangible assets and other non-financial assets. However, an entity shall not apply thisSLFRS to transactions in which the entity acquires goods as part of the net assets acquired in abusiness combination as defined by SLFRS 3 Business Combinations, in a combination of entities or

1Paragraph E3 was added as a consequence of Limited Exemption from Comparative SLFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters(Amendment to SLFRS 1) issued in 2012. To avoid the potential use of hindsight and to ensure that first-time adopters are notdisadvantaged as compared with current SLFRS preparers, the Board decided that first-time adopters should be permitted to use thesame transition provisions permitted for existing preparers of financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRSs that areincluded in Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments (Amendments to SLFRS 7).

2Paragraph E4 was added as a consequence of Disclosures—Transfers of Financial Assets (Amendments to SLFRS 7) issued in 2012.To avoid the potential use of hindsight and to ensure that first-time adopters are not disadvantaged as compared with current SLFRSpreparers, the Board decided that first-time adopters should be permitted to use the same transition provisions permitted forexisting preparers of financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRSs that are included in Disclosures—Transfers ofFinancial Assets (Amendments to SLFRS 7).

10AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

businesses under common control as described in paragraphs B1-B4 of SLFRS 3, or the contributionof a business on the formation of a joint venture as defined by SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.Hence,equity instruments issued in a business combination in exchange for control of the acquiree are notwithin the scope of this SLFRS. However, equity instruments granted to employees of the acquiree intheir capacity as employees (eg in return for continued service) are within the scope of this SLFRS.Similarly, the cancellation, replacement or other modification of share-based payment arrangementsbecause of a business combination or other equity restructuring shall be accounted for in accordancewith this SLFRS. SLFRS 3 provides guidance on determining whether equity instruments issued in abusiness combination are part of the consideration transferred in exchange for control of the acquire(and therefore within the scope of SLFRS 3) or are in return for continued service to be recognised inthe post-combination period (and therefore within the scope of this SLFRS).

Para 6AThis SLFRS uses the term 'fair value' in a way that differs in some respects from the definition of fairvalue in SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. Therefore, when applying SLFRS 2 an entity measuresfair value in accordance with this SLFRS, not SLFRS 13.

Para 53For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the entity shall apply this SLFRS to grants ofshares, share options or other equity instruments that were granted after 01 January 2012 and had notyet vested at the effective date of this SLFRS.

Para 60An entity shall apply this SLFRS for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies the SLFRS for a period beginning before 1 January 2012,it shall disclose that fact.

Para 63ASLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and SLFRS 11, issued in April 2013, amended para-graph 5 and Appendix A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 andSLFRS 11.

SLFRS 3 - Business Combinations

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 2AThe requirements of this Standard do not apply to the acquisition by an investment entity, as definedin SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, of an investment in a subsidiary that is required tobe measured at fair value through profit or loss.

Para 7The guidance in SLFRS 10 shall be used to identify the acquirer-the entity that obtains control ofanother entity, ie the acquiree. If a business combination has occurred but applying the guidance inSLFRS 10 does not clearly indicate which of the combining entities is the acquirer, the factors inparagraphs B14-B18 shall be considered in making that determination.

Para 20Paragraphs 24-31 specify the types of identifiable assets and liabilities that include items for whichthis SLFRS provides limited exceptions to the measurement principle.

Para 29The acquirer shall measure the value of a reacquired right recognised as an intangible asset on thebasis of the remaining contractual term of the related contract regardless of whether market partici-pants would consider potential contractual renewals when measuring its fair value. Paragraphs B35and B36 provide related application guidance.

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 33In a business combination in which the acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchange onlyequity interests, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree's equity interests may be more reliablymeasurable than the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's equity interests. If so, the acquirershall determine the amount of goodwill by using the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree'sequity interests instead of the acquisition-date fair value of the equity interests transferred. To deter-mine the amount of goodwill in a business combination in which no consideration is transferred, theacquirer shall use the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer's interest in the acquiree in place of theacquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred (paragraph 32(a)(i)). Paragraphs B46-B49provide related application guidance.

Para 64This SLFRS shall be applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date ison or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 January 2012.Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies this SLFRS before 1 January 2012, it shall disclosethat fact and apply LKAS 27 at the same time.

Para 64ESLFRS 10, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 7, B13, B63(e) and Appendix A. An entity shallapply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10.

Para 64FSLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 20, 29, 33, 47, amendedthe definition of fair value in Appendix A and amended paragraphs B22, B40, B43-B46, B49 and B64. Anentity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 65BDeleted

Para 65CDeleted

Para 65DDeleted

Para 65EDeleted

Appendix A

controlNo corresponding point

Appendix B

Para B13The guidance in SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements shall be used to identify the acquirer-the entity that obtains control of the acquiree. If a business combination has occurred but applyingthe guidance in SLFRS 10 does not clearly indicate which of the combining entities is the acquirer, thefactors in paragraphs B14-B18 shall be considered in making that determination.

Para B22 (d)the amount recognised as issued equity interests in the consolidated financial statements determinedby adding the issued equity interest of the legal subsidiary (the accounting acquirer) outstandingimmediately before the business combination to the fair value of the legal parent(accounting acquiree).However, the equity structure (ie the number and type of equity interests issued) reflects the equitystructure of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree), including the equity interests the legal parentissued to effect the combination. Accordingly, the equity structure of the legal subsidiary (theaccounting acquirer) is restated using the exchange ratio established in the acquisition agreement toreflect the number of shares of the legal parent (the accounting acquiree) issued in the reverseacquisition.

Para B40The identifiability criteria determine whether an intangible asset is recognized separately from

12AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

goodwill. However, the criteria neither provide guidance for measuring the fair value of an intangibleasset nor restrict the assumptions used in measuring the fair value of an intangible asset. For example,the acquirer would take into account the assumptions that market participants would use whenpricing the intangible asset,such as expectations of future contract renewals, in measuring fair value.It is not necessary for the renewals themselves to meet the identifiability criteria. (However, seeparagraph 29,which establishes an exception to the fair value measurement principle for reacquiredrights recognised in a business combination.) Paragraphs 36 and 37 of LKAS 38 provide guidance fordetermining whether intangible assets should be combined into a single unit of account with otherintangible or tangible assets.

Para B43To protect its competitive position, or for other reasons, the acquirer may intend not to use anacquired non-financial asset actively, or it may not intend to use the asset according to its highest andbest use. For example, that might be the case for an acquired research and development intangibleasset that the acquirer plans to use defensively by preventing others from using it. Nevertheless, theacquirer shall measure the fair value of the non-financial asset assuming its highest and best use bymarket participants in accordance with the appropriate valuation premise, both initially and whenmeasuring fair value less costs of disposal for subsequent impairment testing.

Para B44This SLFRS allows the acquirer to measure a non-controlling interest in the acquiree at its fair value atthe acquisition date. Sometimes an acquirer will be able to measure the acquisition-date fair value of anon-controlling interest on the basis of a quoted price in an active market for the equity shares (iethose not held by the acquirer). In other situations, however, a quoted price in an active market for theequity shares will not be available. In those situations, the acquirer would measure the fair value of thenon-controlling interest using other valuation techniques.

Para B45The fair values of the acquirer's interest in the acquiree and the non-controlling interest on a per-sharebasis might differ. The main difference is likely to be the inclusion of a control premium in the per-sharefair value of the acquirer's interest in the acquiree or, conversely, the inclusion of a discount for lack ofcontrol (also referred to as a non-controlling interest discount) in the per-share fair value of the non-controlling interest if market participants would take into account such a premium or discount whenpricing the non-controlling interest.

Para B46In a business combination achieved without the transfer of consideration, the acquirer must substi-tute the acquisition-date fair value of its interest in the acquiree for the acquisition-date fair value ofthe consideration transferred to measure goodwill or a gain on a bargain purchase (see paragraphs32-34).

Para B49A fair value measurement of a mutual entity should include the assumptions that market participantswould make about future member benefits as well as any other relevant assumptions market partici-pants would make about the mutual entity. For example, a present value technique may be used tomeasure the fair value of a mutual entity. The cash flows used as inputs to the model should be basedon the expected cash flows of the mutual entity, which are likely to reflect reductions for memberbenefits, such as reduced fees charged for goods and services.

Para B63 (e)SLFRS 10 provides guidance on accounting for changes in a parent's ownership interest in asubsidiary after control is obtained.

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para B64 (f) (iv)equity interests of the acquirer, including the number of instruments or interests issued or issuableand the method of measuring the fair value of those instruments or interests.

Para B49 (o) (ii)for each non-controlling interest in an acquiree measured at fair value, the valuation technique(s) andsignificant inputs used to measure that value.

Para B68Paragraph 64 provides that this SLFRS applies prospectively to business combinations for which theacquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after1 July 2009. Earlier application is permitted. However, an entity shall apply this SLFRS only at thebeginning of an annual reporting period that begins on or after 30 June 2007. If an entity applies thisSLFRS before its effective date, the entity shall disclose that fact and shall apply LKAS 27 at the sametime.

SLFRS 4 - Insurance Contracts

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 41An entity shall apply this SLFRS for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this SLFRS for an earlier period, it shall disclose thatfact.

Para 41ESLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value inAppendix A. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 42An entity need not apply the disclosure requirements in this SLFRS to comparative information thatrelates to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2012, except for the disclosures required byparagraph 37(a) and (b) about accounting policies, and recognised assets, liabilities, income andexpense (and cash flows if the direct method is used).

Para 43If it is impracticable to apply a particular requirement of paragraphs 10-35 to comparative informationthat relates to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2012, an entity shall disclose that fact.Applying the liability adequacy test (paragraphs 15-19) to such comparative information might some-times be impracticable, but it is highly unlikely to be impracticable to apply other requirements ofparagraphs 10-35 to such comparative information. LKAS 8 explains the term 'impracticable'.

Appendix A

Fair valueFair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderlytransaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13.)

14AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

SLFRS 5 - Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 28The entity shall include any required adjustment to the carrying amount of a non-current asset thatceases to be classified as held for sale in profit or loss3 from continuing operations in the period inwhich the criteria in paragraphs 7-9 are no longer met. Financial statements for the periods sinceclassification as held for sale shall be amended accordingly if the disposal group or non-current assetthat ceases to be classified as held for sale is a subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture, associate, ora portion of an interest in a joint venture or an associate. The entity shall present that adjustment inthe same caption in the statement of comprehensive income used to present a gain or loss, if any,recognised in accordance with paragraph 37.

Para 33 (b) (iv)[Deleted]

Para 33AIf an entity presents the items of profit or loss in a separate statement as described in paragraph 10Aof LKAS 1, a section identified as relating to discontinued operations is presented in that statement.

Para 44An entity shall apply this SLFRS for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies the SLFRS for a period beginning before 1 January 2012,it shall disclose that fact.

Para 44GSLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 28. An entity shall apply thatamendment when it applies SLFRS 11.

Para 44HSLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value inAppendix A. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 44IPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraph 33A. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies LKAS 1 as amendedin 2014.

Appendix A

fair valueFair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderlytransaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13.)

SLFRS 6 - Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 26An entity shall apply this SLFRS for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies the SLFRS for a period beginning before 1 January 2012,it shall disclose that fact.

3Unless the asset is property, plant and equipment or an intangible asset that had been revalued in accordance with LKAS 16 or LKAS 38before classification as held for sale, in which case the adjustment shall be treated as a revaluation increase or decrease.

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 27If it is impracticable to apply a particular requirement of paragraph 18 to comparative information thatrelates to annual periods beginning before 1 January 2012, an entity shall disclose that fact. LKAS 8explains the term 'impracticable'.

SLFRS 7 - Financial Instruments: Disclosure

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 3 (a)those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance withSLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements or LKAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10, LKAS 27 orLKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint ventureusing LKAS 39; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements of this SLFRS and, for thosemeasured at fair value, the requirements of SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. Entities shall alsoapply this SLFRS to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint venturesunless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument in LKAS 32.

Para 10A[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in thisedition.]

Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income

11A-[These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not included in11Bthis edition.]

12B-[These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not included in12Dthis edition.]

Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities

Para 13AThe disclosures in paragraphs 13B-13E supplement the other disclosure requirements of this SLFRSand are required for all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph42 of LKAS 32. These disclosures also apply to recognised financial instruments that are subject to anenforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are set offin accordance with paragraph 42 of LKAS 32.

Para 13BAn entity shall disclose information to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the effect orpotential effect of netting arrangements on the entity's financial position. This includes the effect orpotential effect of rights of set-off associated with the entity's recognised financial assets andrecognised financial liabilities that are within the scope of paragraph 13A.

Para 13CTo meet the objective in paragraph 13B, an entity shall disclose, at the end of the reporting period, thefollowing quantitative information separately for recognised financial assets and recognised financialliabilities that are within the scope of paragraph 13A:

(a)the gross amounts of those recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities;

(b)the amounts that are set off in accordance with the criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32 whendetermining the net amounts presented in the statement of financial position;

16AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(c)the net amounts presented in the statement of financial position;

(d)the amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement that arenot otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b), including:

(i)amounts related to recognised financial instruments that do not meet some or all of theoffsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32; and

(ii)amounts related to financial collateral (including cash collateral); and

(e) the net amount after deducting the amounts in (d) from the amounts in (c) above.

The information required by this paragraph shall be presented in a tabular format, separately forfinancial assets and financial liabilities, unless another format is more appropriate.

Para 13DThe total amount disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d) for an instrument shall be limited tothe amount in paragraph 13C(c) for that instrument.

Para 13EAn entity shall include a description in the disclosures of the rights of set-off associated with theentity's recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilities subject to enforceable masternetting arrangements and similar agreements that are disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d),including the nature of those rights.

Para 13FIf the information required by paragraphs 13B-13E is disclosed in more than one note to the financialstatements, an entity shall cross-refer between those notes.

Para 20A[This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in thisedition.]

Para 27Deleted

Para 27ADeleted

Para 27BDeleted

Para 28In some cases, an entity does not recognise a gain or loss on initial recognition of a financial asset orfinancial liability because the fair value is neither evidenced by a quoted price in an active market foran identical asset or liability (ie a Level 1 input) nor based on a valuation technique that uses only datafrom observable markets (see paragraph AG76 of LKAS 39). In such cases, the entity shall disclose byclass of financial asset or financial liability:

(a)its accounting policy for recognising in profit or loss the difference between the fair value atinitial recognition and the transaction price to reflect a change in factors (including time) thatmarket participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability (see paragraphAG76(b) of LKAS 39).

(b)the aggregate difference yet to be recognised in profit or loss at the beginning and end of theperiod and a reconciliation of changes in the balance of this difference.

(c)why the entity concluded that the transaction price was not the best evidence of fair value,including a description of the evidence that supports the fair value.

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 29Disclosures of fair value are not required:

(a)when the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value, for example, for financialinstruments such as short-term trade receivables and payables;

(b)for an investment in equity instruments that do not have a quoted price in an active market foran identical instrument (ie a Level 1 input), or derivatives linked to such equity instruments, thatis measured at cost in accordance with LKAS 39 because its fair value cannot otherwise bemeasured reliably; or

(c)for a contract containing a discretionary participation feature (as described in SLFRS 4) if thefair value of that feature cannot be measured reliably.

Para 43An entity shall apply this SLFRS for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this SLFRS for an earlier period, it shall disclose thatfact.

Para 44N[This paragraph refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in thisedition.]

Para 44OSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 3. An entityshall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11.

Para 44PSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 3, 28 and 29 and Appendix A and deletedparagraphs 27-27B. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 44QPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraph 27B. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies LKAS 1 as amended in2014.

Para 44RDisclosures-Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to SLFRS 7), issuedin 2014, added paragraphs 13A-13F and B40-B53. An entity shall apply those amendments for annualperiods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and interim periods within those annual periods. Anentity shall provide the disclosures required by those amendments retrospectively.

Para 45Deleted

Para 46Deleted

Para 47Deleted

Para 48Deleted

Appendix B

Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (paragraphs 13A-13F)

Scope (paragraph 13A)

Para B40The disclosures in paragraphs 13B-13E are required for all recognised financial instruments that areset off in accordance with paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. In addition, financial instruments are within thescope of the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 13B-13E if they are subject to an enforceablemaster netting arrangement or similar agreement that covers similar financial instruments and

18AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

transactions, irrespective of whether the financial instruments are set off in accordance with para-graph 42 of LKAS 32.

Para B41The similar agreements referred to in paragraphs 13A and B40 include derivative clearing agreements,global master repurchase agreements, global master securities lending agreements, and any relatedrights to financial collateral. The similar financial instruments and transactions referred to in para-graph B40 include derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase agree-ments, securities borrowing, and securities lending agreements. Examples of financial instrumentsthat are not within the scope of paragraph 13A are loans and customer deposits at the same institution(unless they are set off in the statement of financial position), and financial instruments that aresubject only to a collateral agreement.

Disclosure of quantitative information for recognised financial assets and recognised financialliabilities within the scope of paragraph 13A (paragraph 13C)

Para B42Financial instruments disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C may be subject to different mea-surement requirements (for example, a payable related to a repurchase agreement may be measured atamortised cost, while a derivative will be measured at fair value). An entity shall include instrumentsat their recognised amounts and describe any resulting measurement differences in the related disclo-sures.

Disclosure of the gross amounts of recognised financial assets and recognised financial liabilitieswithin the scope of paragraph 13A (paragraph 13C(a))

Para B43The amounts required by paragraph 13C(a) relate to recognised financial instruments that are set offin accordance with paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. The amounts required by paragraph 13C(a) also relate torecognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement orsimilar agreement irrespective of whether they meet the offsetting criteria. However, the disclosuresrequired by paragraph 13C(a) do not relate to any amounts recognised as a result of collateral agree-ments that do not meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. Instead, such amounts arerequired to be disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d).

Disclosure of the amounts that are set off in accordance with the criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS32 (paragraph 13C(b))

Para B44Paragraph 13C(b) requires that entities disclose the amounts set off in accordance with paragraph 42of LKAS 32 when determining the net amounts presented in the statement of financial position. Theamounts of both the recognised financial assets and the recognised financial liabilities that are sub-ject to set-off under the same arrangement will be disclosed in both the financial asset and financialliability disclosures. However, the amounts disclosed (in, for example, a table) are limited to theamounts that are subject to set-off. For example, an entity may have a recognised derivative asset anda recognised derivative liability that meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. If thegross amount of the derivative asset is larger than the gross amount of the derivative liability, thefinancial asset disclosure table will include the entire amount of the derivative asset (in accordancewith paragraph 13C(a)) and the entire amount of the derivative liability (in accordance with paragraph13C(b)). However, while the financial liability disclosure table will include the entire amount of thederivative liability (in accordance with paragraph 13C(a)), it will only include the amount of thederivative asset (in accordance with paragraph 13C(b)) that is equal to the amount of the derivativeliability.

19AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Disclosure of the net amounts presented in the statement of financial position (paragraph 13C(c))

Para B45If an entity has instruments that meet the scope of these disclosures (as specified in paragraph 13A),but that do not meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32, the amounts required to bedisclosed by paragraph 13C(c) would equal the amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph13C(a).

Para B46The amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph 13C(c) must be reconciled to the individual lineitem amounts presented in the statement of financial position. For example, if an entity determines thatthe aggregation or disaggregation of individual financial statement line item amounts provides morerelevant information, it must reconcile the aggregated or disaggregated amounts disclosed in para-graph 13C(c) back to the individual line item amounts presented in the statement of financial position.

Disclosure of the amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agree-ment that are not otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b) (paragraph 13C(d))

Para B47Paragraph 13C(d) requires that entities disclose amounts that are subject to an enforceable masternetting arrangement or similar agreement that are not otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b). Para-graph 13C(d)(i) refers to amounts related to recognised financial instruments that do not meet some orall of the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32 (for example, current rights of set-off that donot meet the criterion in paragraph 42(b) of LKAS 32, or conditional rights of set-off that are enforce-able and exercisable only in the event of default, or only in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy ofany of the counterparties).

Para B48Paragraph 13C(d)(ii) refers to amounts related to financial collateral, including cash collateral, bothreceived and pledged. An entity shall disclose the fair value of those financial instruments that havebeen pledged or received as collateral. The amounts disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d)(ii)should relate to the actual collateral received or pledged and not to any resulting payables or receiv-ables recognised to return or receive back such collateral.

Limits on the amounts disclosed in paragraph 13C(d) (paragraph 13D)

Para 49When disclosing amounts in accordance with paragraph 13C(d), an entity must take into account theeffects of over-collateralisation by financial instrument. To do so, the entity must first deduct theamounts disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d)(i) from the amount disclosed in accordancewith paragraph 13C(c). The entity shall then limit the amounts disclosed in accordance with paragraph13C(d)(ii) to the remaining amount in paragraph 13C(c) for the related financial instrument. However,if rights to collateral can be enforced across financial instruments, such rights can be included in thedisclosure provided in accordance with paragraph 13D.

Description of the rights of set-off subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and similaragreements (paragraph 13E)

20AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para B50An entity shall describe the types of rights of set-off and similar arrangements disclosed in accor-dance with paragraph 13C(d), including the nature of those rights. For example, an entity shall de-scribe its conditional rights. For instruments subject to rights of set-off that are not contingent on afuture event but that do not meet the remaining criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32, the entity shalldescribe the reason(s) why the criteria are not met. For any financial collateral received or pledged, theentity shall describe the terms of the collateral agreement (for example, when the collateral is re-stricted).

Disclosure by type of financial instrument or by counterparty

Para B51The quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(a)-(e) may be grouped by type of financialinstrument or transaction (for example, derivatives, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements orsecurities borrowing and securities lending agreements).

Para B52Alternatively, an entity may group the quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(a)-(c) bytype of financial instrument, and the quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(c)-(e) bycounterparty. If an entity provides the required information by counterparty, the entity is not requiredto identify the counterparties by name. However, designation of counterparties (Counterparty A,Counterparty B, Counterparty C, etc) shall remain consistent from year to year for the years presentedto maintain comparability. Qualitative disclosures shall be considered so that further information canbe given about the types of counterparties. When disclosure of the amounts in paragraph 13C(c)-(e)is provided by counterparty, amounts that are individually significant in terms of total counterpartyamounts shall be separately disclosed and the remaining individually insignificant counterpartyamounts shall be aggregated into one line item.

Other

Para B53The specific disclosures required by paragraphs 13C-13E are minimum requirements. To meet theobjective in paragraph 13B an entity may need to supplement them with additional (qualitative)disclosures, depending on the terms of the enforceable master netting arrangements and relatedagreements, including the nature of the rights of set-off, and their effect or potential effect on theentity's financial position.

SLFRS 8 - Operating Segments

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 24 (b)the amounts of additions to non-current assets4 other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets,net defined benefit assets (see LKAS 19 Employee Benefits) and rights arising under insurancecontracts.

Para 27An entity shall provide an explanation of the measurements of segment profit or loss, segment assetsand segment liabilities for each reportable segment. At a minimum, an entity shall disclose the follow-ing:

Para 35An entity shall apply this SLFRS in its annual financial statements for periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies this SLFRS in its financial statementsfor a period before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

4For assets classified according to a liquidity presentation, non-current assets are assets that include amounts expected to be recoveredmore than twelve months after the reporting period.

21AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

SLFRS 10 - Consolidated Financial Statements

No Changes

SLFRS 11 - Joint Arrangements

No Changes

SLFRS 12 - Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities

No Changes

SLFRS 13 - Fair Value Measurement

No Changes

LKAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 4This Standard does not apply to the structure and content of condensed interim financial statementsprepared in accordance with LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting. However, paragraphs 15-35apply to such financial statements. This Standard applies equally to all entities, including those thatpresent consolidated financial statements in accordance with SLFRS 10 Consolidated FinancialStatements and those that present separate financial statements in accordance with LKAS 27Separate Financial Statements.

Para 7The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

General purpose financial statements (referred to as 'financial statements') are those intended tomeet the needs of users who are not in a position to require an entity to prepare reports tailored totheir particular information needs.

Impracticable Applying a requirement is impracticable when the entity cannot apply it after makingevery reasonable effort to do so.

Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) are Standards and Interpretations adopted by the Coun-cil of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka). They comprise:

(a)Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs);

(b)Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKASs);

(c)Statement of Recommended Practices (SoRPs);

(d)Statement of Alternative Treatments (SoATs);

(e)Interpretations adopted by the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka(IFRIC & SIC);

22AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(f)Financial Reporting guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of SriLanka.

Material Omissions or misstatements of items are material if they could, individually or collec-tively, influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements.Materiality depends on the size and nature of the omission or misstatement judged in the surround-ing circumstances. The size or nature of the item, or a combination of both, could be the determiningfactor.

Assessing whether an omission or misstatement could influence economic decisions of users, and sobe material, requires consideration of the characteristics of those users. The Framework for thePreparation and Presentation ofFinancial Statements states in paragraph 25 that 'users are assumedto have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic activities and accounting and a willing-ness to study the information with reasonable diligence.' Therefore, the assessment needs to take intoaccount how users with such attributes could reasonably be expected to be influenced in makingeconomic decisions.

Notes contain information in addition to that presented in the statement of financial position, state-ment (s)of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity andstatement of cash flows. Notes provide narrative descriptions or disaggregations of items presentedin those statements and information about items that do not qualify for recognition in those state-ments.

Other comprehensive income comprises items of income and expense (including reclassificationadjustments) that are not recognised in profit or loss as required or permitted by other SLFRSs.

The components of other comprehensive income include:

(a)changes in revaluation surplus (see LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and LKAS 38Intangible Assets);

(b)remeasurements of defined benefit plans (see LKAS 19 Employee Benefits);

(c)gains and losses arising from translating the financial statements of a foreign operation (seeLKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates);

(d)gains and losses on remeasuring available-for-sale financial assets (see LKAS 39 FinancialInstruments: Recognition and Measurement):

(e)the effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge (seeLKAS 39).

Owners are holders of instruments classified as equity.

Profit or loss is the total of income less expenses, excluding the components of other comprehensiveincome.

Reclassification adjustments are amounts reclassified to profit or loss in the current period thatwere recognised in other comprehensive income in the current or previous periods.

23AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Total comprehensive income is the change in equity during a period resulting from transactionsand other events, other than those changes resulting from transactions with owners in their capac-ity as owners.

Total comprehensive income comprises all components of 'profit or loss' and of 'other comprehensiveincome'.

Para 10A complete set of financial statements comprises:

(a)a statement of financial position as at the end of the period;

(b)a statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the period;

(c)a statement of changes in equity for the period;

(d)a statement of cash flows for the period;

(e)notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatoryinformation;

(ea)comparative information in respect of the preceding period as specified in paragraphs 38 and38A; and

(f)a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entityapplies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items inits financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements inaccordance with paragraphs 40A-40D.

An entity may use titles for the statements other than those used in this Standard. For example, anentity may use the title 'statement of comprehensive income' instead of 'statement of profit or lossand other comprehensive income'.

Para 10AAn entity may present a single statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, withprofit or loss and other comprehensive income presented in two sections. The sections shall bepresented together, with the profit or loss section presented first followed directly by the othercomprehensive income section. An entity may present the profit or loss section in a separate state-ment of profit or loss. If so, the separate statement of profit or loss shall immediately precede thestatement presenting comprehensive income, which shall begin with profit or loss.

Para 12Deleted

Para 17 (a)to select and apply accounting policies in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes inAccounting Estimates and Errors. LKAS 8 sets out a hierarchy of authoritative guidance that man-agement considers in the absence of a SLFRS that specifically applies to an item.

Para 33An entity reports separately both assets and liabilities, and income and expenses. Offsetting in thestatement (s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income or financial position, except whenoffsetting reflects the substance of the transaction or other event, detracts from the ability of usersboth to understand the transactions, other events and conditions that have occurred and to assessthe entity's future cash flows. Measuring assets net of valuation allowances-for example, obsoles-cence allowances on inventories and doubtful debts allowances on receivables-is not offsetting.

24AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Minimum comparative information

Para 38Except when SLFRSs permit or require otherwise, an entity shall present comparative informationin respect of the preceding period for all amounts reported in the current period's financialstatements. An entity shall include comparative information for narrative and descriptive informa-tion if it is relevant to understanding the current period's financial statements.

Para 38AAn entity shall present, as a minimum, two statements of financial position, two statements of profitor loss and other comprehensive income, two separate statements of profit or loss (if presented), twostatements of cash flows and two statements of changes in equity, and related notes.

Para 38BIn some cases, narrative information provided in the financial statements for the preceding period(s)continues to be relevant in the current period. For example, an entity discloses in the current perioddetails of a legal dispute, the outcome of which was uncertain at the end of the preceding period andis yet to be resolved. Users may benefit from the disclosure of information that the uncertainty existedat the end of the preceding period and from the disclosure of information about the steps that havebeen taken during the period to resolve the uncertainty.

Additional comparative information

Para 38CAn entity may present comparative information in addition to the minimum comparative financialstatements required by SLFRSs, as long as that information is prepared in accordance with SLFRSs.This comparative information may consist of one or more statements referred to in paragraph 10, butneed not comprise a complete set of financial statements. When this is the case, the entity shallpresent related note information for those additional statements.

Para 38DFor example, an entity may present a third statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income(thereby presenting the current period, the preceding period and one additional comparative period).However, the entity is not required to present a third statement of financial position, a third statementof cash flows or a third statement of changes in equity (ie an additional financial statement compara-tive). The entity is required to present, in the notes to the financial statements, the comparativeinformation related to that additional statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.

Para 39Deleted

Para 40Deleted

Change in accounting policy, retrospective restatement or reclassification

Para 40AA An entity shall present a third statement of financial position as at the beginning of the precedingperiod in addition to the minimum comparative financial statements required i n paragraph38A if:

(a)it applies an accounting policy retrospectively, makes a retrospective restatement ofitems in its financial statements or reclassifies items in its financial statements; and

(b)the retrospective application, retrospective restatement or the reclassification has amaterial effect on the information in the statement of financial position at the beginning of the preceding period.

25AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 40BIn the circumstances described in paragraph 40A, an entity shall present three statements of financialposition as at:

(a)the end of the current period;

(b)the end of the preceding period; and

(c)the beginning of the preceding period.

Para 40CWhen an entity is required to present an additional statement of financial position in accordance withparagraph 40A, it must disclose the information required by paragraphs 41-44 and LKAS 8. However,it need not present the related notes to the opening statement of financial position as at the beginningof the preceding period.

Para 40DThe date of that opening statement of financial position shall be as at the beginning of the precedingperiod regardless of whether an entity's financial statements present comparative information forearlier periods (as permitted in paragraph 38C).

Para 41If an entity changes the presentation or classification of items in its financial statements, it shallreclassify comparative amounts unless reclassification is impracticable. When an entityreclassifies comparative amounts, it shall disclose (including as at the beginning of the precedingperiod):

Para 47This Standard requires particular disclosures in the statement of financial position or the statement(s)of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, or in the statement of changes in equity andrequires disclosure of other line items either in those statements or in the notes. LKAS 7 Statement ofCash Flows sets out requirements for the presentation of cash flow information.

Para 139An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is permitted. If an entity adopts this Standard for an earlier period, it shall disclose thatfact.

Para 139HSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 12, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 4, 119, 123 and 124. An entity shallapply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 12.

Para 139ISLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 128 and 133. An entity shall apply thoseamendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 139JPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in January2014, amended paragraphs 7, 10, 82, 85-87, 90, 91, 94, 100 and 115, added paragraphs 10A, 81A, 81B and82A, and deleted paragraphs 12, 81, 83 and 84. An entity shall apply those amendments for annualperiods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies theamendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Para 139KLKAS 19 Employee Benefits (as amended in 2013) amended the definition of 'other comprehensiveincome' in paragraph 7 and paragraph 96. An entity shall apply those amendments when it appliesLKAS 19 (as amended in 2013).

Para 139LAdoption of IASB's Annual Improvements, (2009 - 2011 cycle issued in May 2012), amendedparagraphs 10, 38 and 41, deleted paragraphs 39-40 and added paragraphs 38A-38D and 40A-40D. Anentity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies,

26AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclosethat fact.

LKAS 2 - Inventories

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 3 (a)producers of agricultural and forest products, agricultural produce after harvest, and minerals andmineral products, to the extent that they are measured at net realisable value in accordance withwell-established practices in those industries. When such inventories are measured at net realisablevalue, are recognised in profit or loss in the period of the change.

Para 6The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Inventories are assets:

(a)held for sale in the ordinary course of business;

(b)in the process of production for such sale; or

(c)in the form of materials or supplies to be consumed in the production process or in therendering of services.

Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less theestimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Para 7Net realisable value refers to the net amount that an entity expects to realise from the sale of inventoryin the ordinary course of business. Fair value reflects the price at which an orderly transaction to sellthe same inventory in the principal (or most advantageous) market for that inventory would takeplace between market participants at the measurement date. The former is an entity-specific value; thelatter is not. Net realisable value for inventories may not equal fair value less costs to sell.

Para 40An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 40A[Deleted]

Para 40B[Deleted]

Para 40CSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 6 and amendedparagraph 7. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

27AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 7 - Statement of Cash Flows

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 8Bank borrowings are generally considered to be financing activities. However, in some countries,bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand form an integral part of an entity's cash management.In these circumstances, bank overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents. Acharacteristic of such banking arrangements is that the bank balance often fluctuates from beingpositive to overdrawn.

Para 37When accounting for an investment in an associate, a joint venture or a subsidiary accounted for byuse of the equity or cost method, an investor restricts its reporting in the statement of cash flows tothe cash flows between itself and the investee, for example, to dividends and advances.

Para 38An entity that reports its interest in an associate or a joint venture using the equity method includesin its statement of cash flows the cash flows in respect of its investments in the associate or jointventure, and distributions and other payments or receipts between it and the associate or jointventure.

Para 40AAn investment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, need not applyparagraphs 40(c) or 40(d) to an investment in a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair valuethrough profit or loss.

Para 42ACash flows arising from changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss ofcontrol shall be classified as cash flows from financing activities, unless the subsidiary is held by aninvestment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10, and is required to be measured at fair value through profitor loss.

Para 42BChanges in ownership interests in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control, such as thesubsequent purchase or sale by a parent of a subsidiary's equity instruments, are accounted for asequity transactions (see SLFRS 10), unless the subsidiary is held by an investment entity and isrequired to be measured at fair value through profit or loss. Accordingly, the resulting cash flows areclassified in the same way as other transactions with owners described in paragraph 17.

Para 50 (b)Deleted

Para 53This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a periodbeginning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact

Para 57SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 37, 38 and 42Band deleted paragraph 50(b). An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 andSLFRS 11.

Para 58Deleted

LKAS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 52Therefore, retrospectively applying a new accounting policy or correcting a prior period error requires

28AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

distinguishing information that

(a)provides evidence of circumstances that existed on the date(s) as at which the transaction,other event or condition occurred, and

(b)would have been available when the financial statements for that prior period were authorisedfor issue

from other information. For some types of estimates (eg a fair value measurement that uses significantunobservable inputs), it is impracticable to distinguish these types of information. Whenretrospective application or retrospective restatement would require making a significant estimate forwhich it is impossible to distinguish these two types of information, it is impracticable to apply thenew accounting policy or correct the prior period error retrospectively.

Para 54An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 54ADeleted

Para 54BDeleted

Para 54CSLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 52. An entity shall applythat amendment when it applies SLFRS 13.

LKAS 10 - Events after the Reporting Period

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 11An example of a non-adjusting event after the reporting period is a decline in fair value of investmentsbetween the end of the reporting period and the date when the financial statements are authorised forissue. The decline in fair value does not normally relate to the condition of the investments at the endof the reporting period, but reflects circumstances that have arisen subsequently. Therefore, an entitydoes not adjust the amounts recognised in its financial statements for the investments. Similarly, theentity does not update the amounts disclosed for the investments as at the end of the reportingperiod, although it may need to give additional disclosure under paragraph 21.

Para 23An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 23ASLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 11. An entity shall apply that amendment when itapplies SLFRS 13.

LKAS 11 - Construction Contracts

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 46This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012.

29AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 12 - Income Taxes

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 2For the purposes of this Standard, income taxes include all domestic and foreign taxes which are basedon taxable profits. Income taxes also include taxes, such as withholding taxes, which are payable by asubsidiary, associate or joint arrangement on distributions to the reporting entity.

Para 39(a)the parent, investor, joint venturer or joint operator is able to control the timing of the reversal ofthe temporary difference; and

Para 43The arrangement between the parties to a joint arrangement usually deals with the distribution of theprofits and identifies whether decisions on such matters require the consent of all the parties or agroup of the parties. When the joint venturer or joint operator can control the timing of thedistribution of its share of the profits of the joint arrangement and it is probable that its share of theprofits will not be distributed in the foreseeable future, a deferred tax liability is not recognised.

Para 52[moved and renumbered 51A]

Para 58(b)a business combination (other than the acquisition by an investment entity, as defined in SLFRS 10Consolidated Financial Statements, of a subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair valuethrough profit or loss) (see paragraphs 66-68).

Para 68CAs noted in paragraph 68A, the amount of the tax deduction (or estimated future tax deduction,measured in accordance with paragraph 68B) may differ from the related cumulative remunerationexpense. Paragraph 58 of the Standard requires that current and deferred tax should be recognised asincome or an expense and included in profit or loss for the period, except to the extent that the taxarises from (a) a transaction or event that is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside profitor loss, or (b) a business combination (other than the acquisition by an investment entity of asubsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss). If the amount of the taxdeduction (or estimated future tax deduction) exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remunera-tion expense, this indicates that the tax deduction relates not only to remuneration expense but also toan equity item. In this situation, the excess of the associated current or deferred tax should berecognised directly in equity.

Para 77The tax expense (income) related to profit or loss from ordinary activities shall be presented as partof profit or loss in the statement (s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.

Para 77ADeleted

Para 89This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. If an entity applies this Standard for financial statements covering periods beginningbefore 1 January 2012, the entity shall disclose the fact it has applied this Standard.

Para 98ASLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 2, 15, 18(e), 24, 38, 39, 43-45,81(f), 87 and 87C. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 11.

Para 98BPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraph 77 and deleted paragraph 77A. An entity shall apply those amendments when itapplies LKAS 1 as amended in 2014.

30AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 16 - Property, Plant & Equipment

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 6The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised after deducting any accumulateddepreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the other consideration givento acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amountattributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific requirements ofother SLFRSs, eg SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment.

Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residualvalue.

Depreciation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.

Entity-specific value is the present value of the cash flows an entity expects to arise from thecontinuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life or expects to incur whensettling a liability.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverableamount.

Para 8Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment are recognised in accor-dance with this SLFRS when they meet the definition of property, plant and equipment. Otherwise,such items are classified as inventory.

Para 26The fair value of an asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair valuemeasurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates withinthe range can be reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. If an entity is able tomeasure reliably the fair value of either the asset received or the asset given up, then the fair value ofthe asset given up is used to measure the cost of the asset received unless the fair value of the assetreceived is more clearly evident.

Para 32Deleted

Para 33Deleted

Para 35(a)restated proportionately with the change in the gross carrying amount of the asset so that thecarrying amount of the asset after revaluation equals its revalued amount. This method is often usedwhen an asset is revalued by means of applying an index to determine its replacement cost (seeSLFRS 13).

31AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 77If items of property, plant and equipment are stated at revalued amounts, the following shall bedisclosed in addition to the disclosures required by SLFRS 13:

Para 77(a)Deleted

Para 77(b)Deleted

Para 81An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 81FSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 6, amended para-graphs 26, 35 and 77 and deleted paragraphs 32 and 33. An entity shall apply those amendments whenit applies SLFRS 13.

Para 81GAdoption of IASB's Annual Improvements (2009 - 2011 cycle, issued in May 2012), amended para-graph 8. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Account-ing Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on or after1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for an earlier periodit shall disclose that fact.

LKAS 17 - Leases

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 6ALKAS 17 uses the term 'fair value' in a way that differs in some respects from the definition of fair valuein SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement. Therefore, when applying LKAS 17 an entity measures fairvalue in accordance with LKAS 17, not SLFRS 13.

Para 68An entity that has previously applied LKAS 17 (2011) shall apply the amendments made by thisStandard retrospectively for all leases or, if LKAS 17 (2011) was not applied retrospectively, for allleases entered into since it first applied that Standard.

Para 69An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

LKAS 18 - Revenue

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 6(b)dividends arising from investments which are accounted for under the equity method (see LKAS 28Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures);

Para 7The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Revenue is the gross inflow of economic benefits during the period arising in the course of theordinary activities of an entity when those inflows result in increases in equity, other than increasesrelating to contributions from equity participants.

32AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfera liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Para 37This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period begin-ning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 41SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 6(b). An entity shall applythat amendment when it applies SLFRS 11.

Para 42SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 7. An entity shallapply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 13.

LKAS 19 - Employee Benefits

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 8Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Para 113The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligationin determining the deficit or surplus.

Para 172An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is permitted. If an entity applies this Standard for an earlier period, it shall disclose thatfact.

Para 173(b)in financial statements for periods beginning before 1 January 2014, an entity need not presentcomparative information for the disclosures required by paragraph 145 about the sensitivity of thedefined benefit obligation.

Para 174SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 8 and amendedparagraph 113. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 3Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Para 29Grants related to income are presented as part of profit or loss,either separately or under a generalheading such as 'Other income'; alternatively, they are deducted in reporting the related expense.

Para 29ADeleted

33AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 41This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period begin-ning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 45SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 3. An entity shallapply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 46Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraph 29 and deleted paragraph 29A. An entity shall apply those amendments when itapplies LKAS 1 as amended 2014.

LKAS 21 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 3(b)in translating the results and financial position of foreign operations that are included in thefinancial statements of the entity by consolidation or the equity method; and

Para 8Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Foreign currency is a currency other than the functional currency of the entity.

Foreign operation is an entity that is a subsidiary, associate, joint arrangement or branch of areporting entity, the activities of which are based or conducted in a country or currency other thanthose of the reporting entity.

Para 23(c)non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency shall be translated usingthe exchange rates at the date when the fair value was measured.

Para 27As noted in paragraphs 3(a) and 5, LKAS 39 applies to hedge accounting for foreign currency items.The application of hedge accounting requires an entity to account for some exchange differencesdifferently from the treatment of exchange differences required by this Standard. For example, LKAS39 requires that exchange differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cashflow hedge are recognised initially in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge iseffective.

Para 39(b)income and expenses for each statement presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income(ie including comparatives) shall be translated at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and

Para 45The incorporation of the results and financial position of a foreign operation with those of thereporting entity follows normal consolidation procedures, such as the elimination of intragroup bal-ances and intragroup transactions of a subsidiary (see SLFRS 10 Consolidated FinancialStatements). However, an intragroup monetary asset (or liability), whether short-term or long-term,cannot be eliminated against the corresponding intragroup liability (or asset) without showing theresults of currency fluctuations in the consolidated financial statements. This is because the mon-etary item represents a commitment to convert one currency into another and exposes the reporting

34AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

entity to a gain or loss through currency fluctuations. Accordingly, in the consolidated financialstatements of the reporting entity, such an exchange difference is recognised in profit or loss or, if itarises from the circumstances described in paragraph 32, it is recognised in other comprehensiveincome and accumulated in a separate component of equity until the disposal of the foreign operation.

Para 46When the financial statements of a foreign operation are as of a date different from that of thereporting entity, the foreign operation often prepares additional statements as of the same date as thereporting entity's financial statements. When this is not done, SLFRS 10 allows the use of a differentdate provided that the difference is no greater than three months and adjustments are made for theeffects of any significant transactions or other events that occur between the different dates. In sucha case, the assets and liabilities of the foreign operation are translated at the exchange rate at the endof the reporting period of the foreign operation. Adjustments are made for significant changes inexchange rates up to the end of the reporting period of the reporting entity in accordance with SLFRS10. The same approach is used in applying the equity method to associates and joint ventures inaccordance with LKAS 28 (as amended in 2014).

Para 48AIn addition to the disposal of an entity's entire interest in a foreign operation, the following partialdisposals are accounted for as disposals:

(a)when the partial disposal involves the loss of control of a subsidiary that includes a foreignoperation, regardless of whether the entity retains a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the partial disposal; and

(b)when the retained interest after the partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or apartial disposal of an interest in an associate that includes a foreign operation is a financialasset that includes a foreign operation.

Para 58An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 60FSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 3(b), 8, 11, 18,19, 33, 44-46 and 48A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS11.

Para 60 GSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 8 and amendedparagraph 23. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 60HPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued 2014, amendedparagraph 39. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies LKAS 1 as amended in 2014.

35AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 23 - Borrowing Costs

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 29An entity shall apply the Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is permitted. If an entity applies the Standard from a date before 1 January 2012, it shalldisclose that fact.

LKAS 24 - Related Party Disclosures

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 3This Standard requires disclosure of related party relationships, transactions and outstandingbalances, including commitments, in the consolidated and separate financial statements of a parentor investors with joint control of, or significant influence over, an investee presented in accordancewith SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements or LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements.This Standard also applies to individual financial statements.

Para 4Related party transactions and outstanding balances with other entities in a group are disclosed in anentity's financial statements. Intragroup related party transactions and outstanding balances areeliminated, except for those between an investment entity and its subsidiaries measured at fair valuethrough profit or loss, in the preparation of consolidated financial statements of the group.

Para 9Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly, including any director(whether executive or otherwise) of that entity.

Government refers to government, government agencies and similar bodies whether local, nationalor international.

A government-related entity is an entity that is controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influ-enced by a government.

The terms 'control' and 'investment entity', 'joint control' and 'significant influence' are defined inSLFRS 10, SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and JointVentures respectively and are used in this Standard with the meanings specified in those SLFRSs.

Para 11(b)two joint venturers simply because they share joint control of a joint venture.

Para 15The requirement to disclose related party relationships between a parent and its subsidiaries is inaddition to the disclosure requirements in LKAS 27 and SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in OtherEntities.

Para 22Participation by a parent or subsidiary in a defined benefit plan that shares risks between groupentities is a transaction between related parties (see paragraph 42 of LKAS 19).

Para 28An entity shall apply this Standard retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January2012. Earlier application is permitted, either of the whole Standard or of the partial exemption in

36AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

paragraphs 25-27 for government-related entities. If an entity applies either the whole Standard or thatpartial exemption for a period beginning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 28ASLFRS 10, SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and SLFRS 12, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 3,9, 11(b), 15, 19(b) and (e) and 25. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10,SLFRS 11 and SLFRS 12.

LKAS 26 - Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 37This Standard becomes operative for financial statements of retirement benefit plans covering periodsbeginning on or after 1 January 2012.

Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies the Standard from a date before 1 January 2012, itshall disclose that fact.

37AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Sri Lanka Accounting Standard- LKAS 27

Separate Financial Statements

Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements is set out in paragraphs 1-19. All the paragraphs haveequal authority. LKAS 27 should be read in the context of the Preface to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and the ConceptualFramework for Financial Reporting. LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors providesa basis for selecting and applying accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.

Objective

1The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsid-iaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial statements.

Scope

2This Standard shall be applied in accounting for in vestments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whenan entity elects, or is required by local regulations, to present separate financial statements.

3This Standard does not mandate which entities produce separate financial statements. It applies when an entityprepares separate financial statements that comply with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards.

Definitions

4The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which the assets, liabilities, equity,income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as those of a single economicentity.

Separate financial statements are those presented by a parent (ie an investor with control of a subsidiary) or aninvestor with joint control of,or significant influence over, an investee, in which the investments are accounted forat cost or in accordance with SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

5The following terms are defined in Appendix A of SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, Appendix A ofSLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and paragraph 3 of LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures:

*associate

*control of an investee

*group

*investment entity

*joint control

*joint venture

38AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

*joint venturer

*parent

*significant influence

*subsidiary.

6Separate financial statements are those presented in addition to consolidated financial statements or in addition tofinancial statements in which investments in associates or joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method,other than in the circumstances set out in paragraphs 8-8A. Separate financial statements need not be appended to,or accompany, those statements.

7Financial statements in which the equity method is applied are not separate financial statements. Similarly, thefinancial statements of an entity that does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venturer's interest in a jointventure are not separate financial statements.

8An entity that is exempted in accordance with paragraph 4(a) of SLFRS 10 from consolidation or paragraph 17 ofLKAS 28 from applying the equity method may present separate financial statements as its only financial statements.

8AAn investment entity that is required, throughout the current period and all comparative periods presented, to applythe exception to consolidation for all of its subsidiaries in accordance with paragraph 31 of SLFRS 10 presentsseparate financial statements as its only financial statements.

Preparation of separate financial statements

9Separate financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with all applicable SLFRSs, except as provided inparagraph 10.

10When an entity prepares separate financial statements, it shall account for investments in subsidiaries, jointventures and associates either:

(a)at cost, or

(b)in accordance with SLFRS 9.

The entity shall apply the same accounting for each category of investments. Investments accounted for at cost shallbe accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations whenthey are classified as held for sale (or included in adisposal group that is classified as held for sale). The measure-ment of investments accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 is not changed in such circumstances.

11If an entity elects, in accordance with paragraph 18 of LKAS 28, to measure its investments in associates or jointventures at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9, it shall also account for those investmentsin the same way in its separate financial statements.

11AIf a parent is required, in accordance with paragraph 31 of SLFRS 10, to measure its investment in a subsidiary at fairvalue through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9, it shall also account for its investment in a subsidiary in thesame way in its separate financial statements.

39AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

11BWhen a parent ceases to be an investment entity, or becomes an investment entity, it shall account for the changefrom the date when the change in status occurred, as follows:

(a)when an entity ceases to be an investment entity, the entity shall, inaccordance with paragraph 10, either:

(i)account for an investment in a subsidiary at cost. The fair value of the subsidiary at thedate of the change of status shall be used as the deemed cost at that date; or

(ii)continue to account for an investment in a subsidiary inaccordance with SLFRS 9.

(b)when an entity becomes an investment entity, it shall account for an investment in a subsidiary at fair valuethrough profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9. The difference between the previous carrying amount ofthe subsidiary and its fair value at the date of the change of status of the investor shall be recognised as again or loss in profit or loss.The cumulative amount of any fair value adjustment previously recognised inother comprehensive income in respect of those subsidiaries shall be treated as if the investment entity haddisposed of those subsidiaries at the date of change in status.

12An entity shall recognise a dividend from a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate in profit or loss in its separatefinancial statements when its right to receive the dividend is established.

13When a parent reorganises the structure of its group by establishing a new entity as its parent in a manner thatsatisfies the following criteria:

(a)the new parent obtains control of the original parent by issuing equity instruments in exchange for existingequity instruments of the original parent;

(b)the assets and liabilities of the new group and the original group are the same immediately before and afterthe reorganisation; and

(c)the owners of the original parent before the reorganisation have the same absolute and relative interests inthe net assets of the original group and the new group immediately before and after the reorganisation,

and the new parent accounts for its investment in the original parent inaccordance with paragraph 10(a) in its separatefinancial statements, the new parent shall measure cost at the carrying amount of its share of the equity items shownin the separate financial statements of the original parent at the date of the reorganisation.

14Similarly, an entity that is not a parent might establish a new entity as its parent in a manner that satisfies the criteriain paragraph 13. The requirements inparagraph 13 apply equally to such reorganisations. In such cases, references tozzoriginal parentZZ and zzoriginal groupZZ are to the zzoriginal entityZZ.

Disclosure

15An entity shall apply all applicable SLFRSs when providing disclosures in its separate financial statements,including the requirements in paragraphs 16 and 17.

16When a parent, in accordance with paragraph 4(a) of SLFRS 10, elects not to prepare consolidated financialstatements and instead prepares separate financial statements, it shall disclose in those separate financialstatements:

40AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(a)the fact that the financial statements are separate financial statements; that the exemption from consolida-tion has been used; the name and principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of theentity whose consolidated financial statements that comply with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards have beenproduced for public use; and the address where those consolidated financial statements are obtainable.

(b)a list of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, including:

(i)the name of those investees.

(ii)the principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of those investees.

(iii)its proportion of the ownership interest (and its proportion of the voting rights, if different) held in thoseinvestees.

(c)a description of the method used to account for the investments listed under (b).

16AWhen an investment entity that is a parent (other than a parent covered by paragraph 16) prepares, in accordancewith paragraph 8A, separate financial statements as its only financial statements, it shall disclose that fact. Theinvestment entity shall also present the disclosures relating to investment entities required by SLFRS 12Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.

17When a parent (other than a parent covered by paragraphs 16-16A) or an investor with joint control of, orsignificant influence over, an investee prepares separate financial statements, the parent or investor shallidentify the financial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS 10, SLFRS 11 or LKAS 28 to which theyrelate. The parent or investor shall also disclose in its separate financial statements:

(a)the fact that the statements are separate financial statements and the reasons why those statements areprepared if not required by law.

(b)a list of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, including:

(i)the name of those investees.

(ii)the principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of those investees.

(iii)its proportion of the ownership interest (and its proportion of the voting rights, if different) held inthose investees.

(c)a description of the method used to account for the investments listed under (b).

Effective date and transition

18An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after1 January 2014. Earlier application ispermitted. If an entity applies this Standard earlier, it shall disclose that fact and apply SLFRS 10, SLFRS 11, SLFRS12and LKAS 28 at the same time.

18A[Deleted]

18B[Deleted]

41AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

18CAt the date of initial application, an investment entity that previously measured its investment in a subsidiaryat cost shall instead measure that investment at fair value through profit or loss as if the requirements of thisSLFRS had always been effective. The investment entity shall adjust retrospectively the annual period imme-diately preceding the date of initial application and shall adjust retained earnings at the beginning of theimmediately preceding period for any difference between:

(a)the previous carrying amount of the investment; and

(b)the fair value of the investor's investment in the subsidiary.

18DAt the date of initial application, an investment entity that previously measured its investment in a subsidiaryat fair value through other comprehensive income shall continue to measure that investment at fair value. Thecumulative amount of any fair value adjustment previously recognised in other comprehensive income shall betransferred to retained earnings at the beginning of the annual period immediately preceding the date of initialapplication.

18EAt the date of initial application, an investment entity shall not make adjustments to the previous accountingfor an interest in a subsidiary that it had previously elected to measure at fair value through profit or loss inaccordance with SLFRS 9, as permitted in paragraph 10.

18FBefore the date that SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement is adopted, an investment entity shall use the fair valueamounts previously reported to investors or to management, if those amounts represent the amount for whichthe investment could have been exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm's length transac-tion at the date of the valuation.

18GIf measuring the investment in the subsidiary in accordance with paragraphs 18C-18F is impracticable (asdefined in LKAS 8 Accounting Policies,Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors), an investment entityshall apply the requirements of this SLFRS at the beginning of the earliest period for which application ofparagraphs 18C-18F is practicable, which may be the current period. The investor shall adjust retrospectivelythe annual period immediately preceding the date of initial application, unless the beginning of the earliestperiod for which application of this paragraph is practicable is the current period. When the date that it ispracticable for the investment entity to measure the fair value of the subsidiary is earlier than the beginning ofthe immediately preceding period, the investor shall adjust equity at the beginning of the immediately preced-ing period for any difference between:

(a)the previous carrying amount of the investment; and

(b)the fair value of the investor's investment in the subsidiary.

If the earliest period for which application of this paragraph is practicable is the current period, the adjustmentto equity shall be recognised at the beginning of the current period.

18HIf an investment entity has disposed of, or lost control of, an investment in a subsidiary before the date of initialapplication of the Investment Entities amendments, the investment entity is not required to make adjustmentsto the previous accounting for that investment.

42AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

18INotwithstanding the references to the annual period immediately preceding the date of initial application (thezzimmediately preceding periodZZ) in paragraphs18C-18G, an entity may also present adjusted comparative infor-mation for any earlier periods presented, but is not required to do so. If an entity does present adjustedcomparative information for any earlier periods, all references to the zzimmediately preceding periodZZ in para-graphs 18C-18G shall be read as the zzearliest adjusted comparative period presentedZZ. If an entity presentsunadjusted comparative information for any earlier periods, it shall clearly identify the information that has notbeen adjusted, state that it has been prepared on a different basis, and explain that basis.

References to SLFRS 9

19If an entity applies this Standard but does not yet apply SLFRS 9, any reference to SLFRS 9 shall be read as areference to LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.

43AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Sri Lanka Accounting Standard- LKAS 28Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures

Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Venturesis set out in paragraphs 1-47. All theparagraphs have equal authority. LKAS 28 should be read in the context of the Preface to Sri Lanka Accounting Standardsand the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. LKAS 8 Accounting Policies Changes in Accounting Estimatesand Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.

Objective

1The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting for investments in associates and to set out therequirements for the application of the equity method when accounting for investments in associates andjoint ventures.

Scope

2This Standard shall be applied by all entities that are investors with joint control of, or significant influenceover, an investee.

Definitions

3The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

An associate is an entity over which the investor has significant influence.

Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which assets, liabilities, equity,income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as those of a single economicentity.

The equity method is a method of accounting whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost andadjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the investor's share of the investee's net assets.Theinvestor's profit or loss includes its share of the investee's profit or loss and the investor's other comprehen-sive income includes its share of the investee's other comprehensive income.

A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.

Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only whendecisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.

A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement haverights to the net assets of the arrangement.

A joint venturer is a party to a joint venture that has joint control of that joint venture.

Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial andoperating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or jointcontrol of those policies.

44AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

4The following terms are defined in paragraph 4 of LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements and in Appendix Aof SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and are used in this Standard with the meanings specified inthe SLFRSs in which they are defined: -

* control of an investee ;

* group;

* parent;

* separate financial statements;

* subsidiary.

Significant influence

5If an entity holds, directly or indirectly (eg through subsidiaries), 20 percent or more of the voting power of theinvestee, it is presumed that the entity has significant influence, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that thisis not the case. Conversely, if the entity holds, directly or indirectly (eg : through subsidiaries), less than 20percent of the voting power of the investee, it is presumed that the entity does not have significant influence,unless such influence can be clearly demonstrated. A substantial or majority ownership by another investordoes not necessarily preclude an entity from having significant influence.

6The existence of significant influence by an entity is usually evidenced in one or more of the following ways:-

(a)representation on the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the investee;

(b)participation in policy-making processes, including participation in decisions about dividends or otherdistributions;

(c)material transactions between the entity and its investee;

(d)interchange of managerial personnel; or

(e)provision of essential technical information.

7An entity may own share warrants, share call options, debt or equity instruments that are convertible intoordinary shares, or other similar instruments that have the potential, if exercised or converted, to give the entityadditional voting power or to reduce another party's voting power over the financial and operating policies ofanother entity (ie : potential voting rights).The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currentlyexercisable or convertible, including potential voting rights held by other entities, are considered whenassessing whether an entity has significant influence.Potential voting rights are not currently exercisable orconvertible when, forexample, they cannot be exercised or converted until a future date or until the occurrenceof a future event.

8In assessing whether potential voting rights contribute to significant influence,the entity examines all facts andcircumstances (including the terms of exercise of the potential voting rights and any other contractual arrange-ments whether considered individually or in combination) that affect potential rights, except the intentions ofmanagement and the financial ability to exercise or convert those potential rights.

45AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

9An entity loses significant influence over an investee when it loses the power to participate in the financial andoperating policy decisions of that investee. The loss of significant influence can occur with or without achange in absolute or relative ownership levels. It could occur, for example, when an associate becomessubject to the control of a government, court, administrator or regulator. It could also occur as a result of acontractual arrangement.

Equity method

10Under the equity method, on initial recognition the investment in an associate or a joint venture is recognisedat cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investor's share of the profit or lossof the investee after the date of acquisition. The investor's share of the investee's profit or lossis recognised inthe investor's profit or loss. Distributions received from an investee reduce the carrying amount of the invest-ment. Adjustments to the carrying amount may also be necessary for changes in the investor's proportionateinterest in the investee arising from changes in the investee's other comprehensive income. Such changesinclude those arising from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and from foreign exchangetranslation differences. The investor's share of those changes is recognised in the investor's other comprehen-sive income (see LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements).

11The recognition of income on the basis of distributions received may not be an adequate measure of theincome earned by an investor on an investment in an associate or a joint venture because the distributionsreceived may bear little relation to the performance of the associate or joint venture. Because the investor hasjoint control of, or significant influence over, the investee, the investor has an interest in the associate's or jointventure's performance and, as a result, the return on its investment. The investor accounts for this interest byextending the scope of its financial statements to include its share of the profit or loss of such an investee. Asa result, application of the equity method provides more informative reporting of the investor's net assets andprofit or loss.

12When potential voting rights or other derivatives containing potential voting rights exist, an entity's interestin an associate or a joint venture is determined solely on the basis of existing ownership interests and does notreflect the possible exercise or conversion of potential voting rights and other derivative instruments, unlessparagraph 13 applies.

13In some circumstances, an entity has, in substance, an existing ownership as a result of a transaction thatcurrently gives it access to the returns associated with an ownership interest. In such circumstances, theproportion allocated to the entity is determined by taking into account the eventual exercise of those potentialvoting rights and other derivative instruments that currently give the entity access to the returns.

14SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments does not apply to interests in associates and joint ventures that are accountedfor using the equity method. When instruments containing potential voting rights in substance currently giveaccess to the returns associated with an ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture,the instrumentsare not subject to SLFRS 9. In all other cases, instruments containing potential voting rights in an associate ora joint venture are accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9.

15Unless an investment, or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a joint venture is classified as held forsale in accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the invest-ment, or any retained interest inthe investment not classified as held for sale, shall be classified as a non-currentasset.

46AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Application of the equity method

16An entity with joint control of, or significant influence over, an investee shall account for its investment in anassociate or a joint venture using the equity method except when that investment qualifies for exemption inaccordance with paragraphs 17-19.

Exemptions from applying the equity method

17An entity need not apply the equity method to its investment in an associate ora joint venture if the entity is aparent that is exempt from preparing consolidated financial statements by the scope exception in paragraph4(a) of SLFRS 10 or if all the following apply:

(a)The entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, or is a partially-owned subsidiary of another entity and its otherowners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed about, and do not object to,the entity not applying the equity method.

(b)The entity's debt or equity instruments are not traded in a public market (a domestic or foreign stockexchange or an over-the-counter market,including local and regional markets).

(c)The entity did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial statements with a securities commis-sion or other regulatory organisation, for the purpose of issuing any class of instruments in a publicmarket.

(d)The ultimate or any intermediate parent of the entity produces consolidated financial statements avail-able for public use that comply with SLFRSs.

18When an investment in an associate or a joint venture is held by, or is held indirectly through, an entity that isa venture capital organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including investment-linkedinsurance funds, the entity may elect to measure investments in those associates and joint ventures at fairvalue through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9.

19When an entity has an investment in an associate, a portion of which is held indirectly through a venturecapital organisation, or a mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including investment-linked insurancefunds, the entity may elect to measure that portion of the investment in the associate at fair value through profitor loss in accordance with SLFRS 9 regardless of whether the venture capital organisation, or the mutual fund,unit trust and similar entities including investment-linked insurance funds, has significant influence over thatportion of the investment. If the entity makes that election, the entity shallapply the equity method to anyremaining portion of its investment in an associate that is not held through a venture capital organisation, ora mutual fund, unit trust and similar entities including investment-linked insurance funds.

Classification as held for sale

20An entity shall apply SLFRS 5 to an investment, or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a joint venturethat meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. Any retained portion of an investment in an associate ora joint venture that has not been classified as held for sale shall be accounted for using the equity method untildisposal of the portion that is classified as held for sale takes place. After the disposal takes place, an entityshall account for any retained interest in the associate or joint venture in accordance with SLFRS 9 unless theretained interest continues to be an associate or a joint venture, in which case the entity uses the equitymethod.

47AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

21When an investment, or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a jointventure previously classified asheld for sale no longer meets the criteria to be so classified, it shall be accounted for using the equity methodretrospectively as from the date of its classification as held for sale. Financial statements for the periods sinceclassification as held for sale shall be amended accordingly.

Discontinuing the use of the equity method

22An entity shall discontinue the use of the equity method from the date when its investment ceases to be anassociate or a joint venture as follows:

(a)If the investment becomes a subsidiary, the entity shall account for its investment in accordance withSLFRS 3 Business Combinations and SLFRS 10.

(b)If the retained interest in the former associate or joint venture is afinancial asset, the entity shallmeasure the retained interest at fair value. The fair value of the retained interest shall be regarded asits fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with SLFRS 9. The entity shallrecognise in profit or loss any difference between:

(i)the fair value of any retained interest and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in theassociate or joint venture; and

(ii)the carrying amount of the investment at the date the equity method was discontinued.

(c)When an entity discontinues the use of the equity method, the entity shall account for all amountspreviously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that investment on the same basisas would have been required if the investee had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.

23Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income by the investee would bereclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the entity reclassifies the gain orloss from equity toprofit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the equity method is discontinued. Forexample, if an associate or a joint venture has cumulative exchange differences relating to a foreign operationand the entity discontinues the use of the equity method, the entity shall reclassify to profit or loss the gain orloss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the foreign operation.

24If an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint venture or an investment in a joint venturebecomes an investment in an associate, the entity continues to apply the equity method and does not remeasurethe retained interest.

Changes in ownership interest

25If an entity's ownership interest in an associate or a joint venture is reduced, butthe entity continues to applythe equity method, the entity shall reclassify to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that hadpreviously been recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that reduction in ownership interest ifthat gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets orliabilities.

48AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Equity method procedures

26Many of the procedures that are appropriate for the application of the equity method are similar to theconsolidation procedures described in SLFRS 10.Furthermore, the concepts underlying the procedures used inaccounting for the acquisition of a subsidiary are also adopted in accounting for the acquisition of aninvestment in an associate or a joint venture.

27A group's share in an associate or a joint venture is the aggregate of the holdings in that associate or jointventure by the parent and its subsidiaries. The holdings of the group's other associates or joint ventures areignored for this purpose.When an associate or a joint venture has subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures,the profit or loss, other comprehensive income and net assets taken in to account in applying the equitymethod are those recognised in the associate's or joint venture's financial statements (including the associate'sor joint venture's share of the profit or loss, other comprehensive income and net assets of its associates andjoint ventures), after any adjustments necessary to give effect to uniform accounting policies (see paragraphs35 and 36).

28Gains and losses resulting from 'upstream' and 'downstream' transactions between an entity (including itsconsolidated subsidiaries) and its associate or joint venture are recognised in the entity's financial statementsonly to theextent of unrelated investors' interests in the associate or joint venture.'Upstream' transactions are,for example, sales of assets from an associate or a joint venture to the investor. 'Downstream' transactions are,for example, sales or contributions of assets from the investor to its associate or its joint venture.The investor'sshare in the associate's or joint venture's gains or losses resulting from these transactions is eliminated.

29When downstream transactions provide evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of the assets to besold or contributed, or of an impairment loss of those assets, those losses shall be recognised in full by theinvestor. When upstream transactions provide evidence of a reduction in the net realisable valueof the assetsto be purchased or of an impairment loss of those assets, the investor shall recognise its share in those losses.

30The contribution of a non-monetary asset to an associate or a joint venture in exchange for an equity interestin the associate or joint venture shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraph 28, except when thecontribution lacks commercial substance, as that term is described in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.If such a contribution lacks commercial substance, the gain or loss is regarded as unrealised and is notrecognised unless paragraph 31 also applies.Such unrealised gains and losses shall be eliminated against theinvestment accounted for using the equity method and shall not be presented as deferred gains or losses in theentity's consolidated statement of financial position or in the entity's statement of financial position in whichinvestments are accounted for using the equity method.

31If, in addition to receiving an equity interest in an associate or a joint venture, an entity receives monetary ornon-monetary assets, the entity recognises in full in profit or loss the portion of the gain or loss on the non-monetary contribution relating to the monetary or non-monetary assets received.

32An investment is accounted for using the equity method from the date on whichit becomes an associate or ajoint venture. On acquisition of the investment, any difference between the cost of the investment and theentity's share of the net fair value of the investee's identifiable assets and liabilities is accounted for as follows:

(a)Goodwill relating to an associate or a joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment.Amortisation of that goodwill is not permitted.

(b)Any excess of the entity's share of the net fair value of the investee' sidentifiable assets and liabilitiesover the cost of the investment is included as income in the determination of the entity's share of theassociate or joint venture's profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

49AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Appropriate adjustments to the entity's share of the associate's or joint venture's profit or loss after acquisitionare made in order to account, for example, for depreciation of the depreciable assets based on their fair valuesat the acquisition date. Similarly, appropriate adjustments to the entity's share of the associate's or jointventure's profit or loss after acquisition are made for impairment losses such as for goodwill or property, plantand equipment.

33The most recent available financial statements of the associate or joint venture are used by the entity inapplying the equity method. When the end of the reporting period of the entity is different from that of theassociate or joint venture, the associate or joint venture prepares, for the use of the entity, financial state-ments as of the same date as the financial statements of the entity unless it is impracticable to do so.

34When, in accordance with paragraph 33, the financial statements of an associate or a joint venture used inapplying the equity method are prepared as of a date different from that used by the entity, adjustments shallbe made for the effects of significant transactions or events that occur between that date and the date of theentity's financial statements.In any case, the difference between the end of the reporting period of theassociate or joint venture and that of the entity shall be no more than three months. The length of thereporting periods and any difference between the ends of the reporting periods shall be the same from periodto period.

35The entity's financial statements shall be prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactionsand events in similar circumstances.

36If an associate or a joint venture uses accounting policies other than those of the entity for like transactionsand events in similar circumstances, adjustments shall be made to make the associate's or joint venture'saccounting policies conform to those of the entity when the associate's or joint venture's financial statementsare used by the entity in applying the equity method.

37If an associate or a joint venture has outstanding cumulative preference shares that are held by parties otherthan the entity and are classified as equity, the entity computes its share of profit or loss after adjusting for thedividends on such shares, whether or not the dividends have been declared.

38If an entity's share of losses of an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate orjoint venture, the entity discontinues recognisingits share of further losses. The interest in an associate or ajoint venture is the carrying amount of the investment in the associate or joint venture determined using theequity method together with any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the entity's net investmentin the associate or joint venture. For example, an item for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occurin the foreseeable future is, in substance, an extension of the entity's investment in that associate or jointventure. Such items may include preference shares and long-term receivables or loans, but do not include tradereceivables, trade payables or any long-term receivables for which adequate collateral exists, such as securedloans. Losses recognised using the equity method in excess of the entity's investment in ordinary shares areapplied to the other components of the entity's interest in an associate or a joint venture in the reverse order oftheir seniority (ie priority in liquidation).

39After the entity's interest is reduced to zero, additional losses are provided for,and a liability is recognised, onlyto the extent that the entity has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of theassociate or joint venture. If the associate or joint venture subsequently reports profits, the entity resumesrecognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.

Impairment losses

40After application of the equity method, including recognising the associate's or joint venture's losses inaccordance with paragraph 38, the entity applies LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measure-ment to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to its netinvestment in the associate or joint venture.

50AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

41The entity also applies LKAS 39 to determine whether any additional impairment loss is recognised withrespect to its interest in the associate or joint venture that does not constitute part of the net investment andthe amount of that impairment loss.

42Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an investment in anassociate or a joint venture isnot separately recognised, it is not tested for impairment separately by applying the requirements for impair-ment testing goodwill in LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets. Instead, the entire carrying amount of the investmentis tested for impairment in accordance with LKAS 36 as a single asset,by comparing its recoverable amount(higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount, whenever application of LKAS39 indicates that the investment may be impaired. An impairment loss recognised in those circumstances is notallocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms part of the carrying amount of the investment in theassociate or joint venture.Accordingly, any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance withLKAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases. In determiningthe value in use of the investment, anentity estimates:

(a)its share of the present value of the estimated future cash flows expectedto be generated by the associateor joint venture, including the cash flows from the operations of the associate or joint venture and theproceeds from the ultimate disposal of the investment; or

(b)the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from dividends to be received fromthe investment and from its ultimate disposal.

Using appropriate assumptions, both methods give the same result.

43The recoverable amount of an investment in an associate or a joint venture shall be assessed for each associateor joint venture, unless the associate or jointventure does not generate cash inflows from continuing use thatare largely independent of those from other assets of the entity.

Separate financial statements

44An investment in an associate or a joint venture shall be accounted for in the entity's separate financialstatements in accordance with paragraph 10 of LKAS 27.

Effective date and transition

45An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier applicationis permitted. If an entity applies this Standard earlier, it shall disclose that fact and apply SLFRS 10, SLFRS 11Joint Arrangements, SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and LKAS 27 at the same time.

References to SLFRS 9

46If an entity applies this Standard but does not yet apply SLFRS 9, any reference to SLFRS 9 shall be read as areference to LKAS 39.

Withdrawal of LKAS 28

47This Standard supersedes LKAS 28 Investments in Associates.

51AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 29 - Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 41This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this standard for a period begin-ning before 01 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

LKAS 31-Interests in Joint Ventures

The entire Standard has been removed

LKAS 32 - Financial Instruments: Presentation

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 4(a)those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordancewith SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements orLKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10,LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,associate or joint venture using LKAS 39; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements ofthis Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to all derivatives linked to interests in subsid-iaries, associates or joint ventures.

Para 11Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Para 23With the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and16D, a contract that contains an obligation for an entity to purchase its own equity instruments forcash or another financial asset gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the redemptionamount (for example, for the present value of the forward repurchase price, option exercise price orother redemption amount). This is the case even if the contract itself is an equity instrument. Oneexample is an entity's obligation under a forward contract to purchase its own equity instruments forcash. The financial liability is recognised initially at the present value of the redemption amount, andis reclassified from equity. Subsequently, the financial liability is measured in accordance with LKAS39. If the contract expires without delivery, the carrying amount of the financial liability is reclassifiedto equity. An entity's contractual obligation to purchase its own equity instruments gives rise to afinancial liability for the present value of the redemption amount even if the obligation to purchase isconditional on the counterparty exercising a right to redeem (eg. a written put option that gives thecounterparty the right to sell an entity's own equity instruments to the entity for a fixed price).

Para 35Interest, dividends, losses and gains relating to a financial instrument or a component that is afinancial liability shall be recognised as income or expense in profit or loss. Distributions to holdersof an equity instrument shall be recognised by the entity directly in equity. Transaction costs of anequity transaction shall be accounted for as a deduction from equity.

52AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 35AIncome tax relating to distributions to holders of an equity instrument and to transaction costs of anequity transaction shall be accounted for in accordance with LKAS 12 Income Taxes.

Para 37An entity typically incurs various costs in issuing or acquiring its own equity instruments. Thosecosts might include registration and other regulatory fees, amounts paid to legal, accounting andother professional advisers, printing costs and stamp duties. The transaction costs of an equitytransaction are accounted for as a deduction from equity to the extent they are incremental costsdirectly attributable to the equity transaction that otherwise would have been avoided. The costs ofan equity transaction that is abandoned are recognised as an expense.

Para 39The amount of transaction costs accounted for as a deduction from equity in the period is disclosedseparately in accordance with LKAS 1.

Para 40Dividends classified as an expense may be presented in the statement (s) of profit or loss and othercomprehensive income either with interest on other liabilities or as a separate item. In addition to therequirements of this Standard, disclosure of interest and dividends is subject to the requirements ofLKAS 1 and SLFRS 7. In some circumstances, because of the differences between interest anddividends with respect to matters such as tax deductibility, it is desirable to disclose them separatelyin the statement (s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. Disclosures of the tax effectsare made in accordance with LKAS 12.

Offsetting a financial asset and a financial liability (see also paragraphs AG38A-AG38F andAG39)

Para 43This Standard requires the presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities on a net basis whendoing so reflects an entity's expected future cash flows from settling two or more separate financialinstruments. When an entity has the right to receive or pay a single net amount and intends to do so,it has, in effect, only a single financial asset or financial liability. In other circumstances, financialassets and financial liabilities are presented separately from each other consistently with their charac-teristics as resources or obligations of the entity. An entity shall disclose the information required inparagraphs 13B-13E of SLFRS 7 for recognised financial instruments that are within the scope ofparagraph 13A of SLFRS 7.

Para 96An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is permitted. An entity shall not apply this Standard for annual periods beginning before1 January 2012 unless it also applies LKAS 39. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginningbefore 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 97ISLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 4(a) andAG29. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11.

Para 97JSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 11 and amendedparagraphs 23 and AG31. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 97KPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraph 40. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies LKAS 1 as amended in2014.

53AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 97LOffsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to LKAS 32), issued in 2014,deleted paragraph AG38 and added paragraphs AG38A-AG38F. An entity shall apply those amend-ments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. An entity shall apply those amend-ments retrospectively. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments from anearlier date, it shall disclose that fact and shall also make the disclosures required by Disclosures-Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to SLFRS 7) issued in 2014.

Para 97MDisclosures-Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to SLFRS 7), is-sued in 2014, amended paragraph 43 by requiring an entity to disclose the information required inparagraphs 13B-13E of SLFRS 7 for recognised financial assets that are within the scope of paragraph13A of SLFRS 7. An entity shall apply that amendment for annual periods beginning on or after 1January, 2014 and interim periods within those annual periods. An entity shall provide the disclosuresrequired by this amendment retrospectively.

Para 97NAdoption of IASB's Annual Improvements, (2009 - 2011 cycle issued in May 2012), amended para-graphs 35, 37 and 39 and added paragraph 35A. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectivelyin accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in AccountingEstimates and Errorsfor annual periods beginning on or after 1 January, 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entityapplies that amendment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Para AG16Derivative financial instruments create rights and obligations that have the effect of transferringbetween the parties to the instrument one or more of the financial risks inherent in an underlyingprimary financial instrument. On inception, derivative financial instruments give one party a contrac-tual right to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions thatare potentially favourable, or a contractual obligation to exchange financial assets or financial liabili-ties with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable. However, they generallydo not result in a transfer of the underlying primary financial instrument on inception of the contract,nor does such a transfer necessarily take place on maturity of the contract. Some instruments embodyboth a right and an obligation to make an exchange. Because the terms of the exchange are determinedon inception of the derivative instrument, as prices in financial markets change those terms maybecome either favourable or unfavourable.

Para AG29In consolidated financial statements, an entity presents non-controlling interests-ie the interests ofother parties in the equity and income of its subsidiaries-in accordance with LKAS 1 and SLFRS 10.When classifying a financial instrument (or a component of it) in consolidated financial statements, anentity considers all terms and conditions agreed between members of the group and the holders of theinstrument in determining whether the group as a whole has an obligation to deliver cash or anotherfinancial asset in respect of the instrument or to settle it in a manner that results in liability classifica-tion. When a subsidiary in a group issues a financial instrument and a parent or other group entityagrees additional terms directly with the holders of the instrument (eg a guarantee), the group may nothave discretion over distributions or redemption. Although the subsidiary may appropriately classifythe instrument without regard to these additional terms in its individual financial statements, the effectof other agreements between members of the group and the holders of the instrument is considered inorder to ensure that consolidated financial statements reflect the contracts and transactions enteredinto by the group as a whole. To the extent that there is such an obligation or settlement provision, theinstrument (or the component of it that is subject to the obligation) is classified as a financial liabilityin consolidated financial statements.

54AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

AG 31(b)The equity instrument is an embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the issuer. Thisoption has value on initial recognition even when it is out of the money.

Para AG38Deleted

Para AG38AA right of set off may be currently available or it may be contingent on a future event (for example, theright may be triggered or exercisable only on the occurrence of some future event, such as the default,insolvency or bankruptcy of one of the counterparties). Even if the right of set off is not contingent ona future event, it may only be legally enforceable in the normal course of business, or in the event ofdefault, or in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy, of one or all of the counterparties.

Para AG38BTo meet the criterion in paragraph 42(a), an entity must currently have a legally enforceable right ofset-off. This means that the right of set-off:

(a)must not be contingent on a future event; and

(b)must be legally enforceable in all of the following circumstances:

(i)the normal course of business;

(ii)the event of default; and

(iii) the event of insolvency or bankruptcy

of the entity and all of the counterparties.

Para AG38CThe nature and extent of the right of set-off, including any conditions attached to its exercise andwhether it would remain in the event of default or insolvency or bankruptcy, may vary from one legaljurisdiction to another. Consequently, it cannot be assumed that the right of set-off is automaticallyavailable outside of the normal course of business. For example, the bankruptcy or insolvency laws ofa jurisdiction may prohibit, or restrict, the right of set-off in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency insome circumstances.

Para AG38DThe laws applicable to the relationships between the parties (for example, contractual provisions, thelaws governing the contract, or the default, insolvency or bankruptcy laws applicable to the parties)need to be considered to ascertain whether the right of set-off is enforceable in the normal course ofbusiness, in an event of default, and in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy, of the entity and all ofthe counterparties (as specified in paragraph AG38B(b)).

Criterion that an entity 'intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle theliability simultaneously' (paragraph 42(b))

Para AG38ETo meet the criterion in paragraph 42(b) an entity must intend either to settle on a net basis or to realisethe asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Although the entity may have a right to settle net, itmay still realise the asset and settle the liability separately.

Para AG38FIf an entity can settle amounts in a manner such that the outcome is, in effect, equivalent to netsettlement, the entity will meet the net settlement criterion in paragraph 42(b). This will occur if, andonly if, the gross settlement mechanism has features that eliminate or result in insignificant credit andliquidity risk, and that will process receivables and payables in a single settlement process or cycle.

55AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

For example, a gross settlement system that has all of the following characteristics would meet the net

settlement criterion in paragraph 42(b):

(a)financial assets and financial liabilities eligible for set-off are submitted at the same point in timefor processing;

(b)once the financial assets and financial liabilities are submitted for processing, the parties arecommitted to fulfil the settlement obligation;

(c)there is no potential for the cash flows arising from the assets and liabilities to change once theyhave been submitted for processing (unless the processing fails-see (d) below);

(d)assets and liabilities that are collateralised with securities will be settled on a securities transferor similar system (for example, delivery versus payment), so that if the transfer of securities fails,the processing of the related receivable or payable for which the securities are collateral will alsofail (and vice versa);

(e)any transactions that fail, as outlined in (d), will be re-entered for processing until they aresettled;

(f)settlement is carried out through the same settlement institution (for example, a settlement bank,a central bank or a central securities depository); and

(g)an intraday credit facility is in place that will provide sufficient overdraft amounts to enable theprocessing of payments at the settlement date for each of the parties, and it is virtually certainthat the intraday credit facility will be honoured if called upon.

Para AG39The Standard does not provide special treatment for so-called 'synthetic instruments', which aregroups of separate financial instruments acquired and held to emulate the characteristics of anotherinstrument. For example, a floating rate long-term debt combined with an interest rate swap thatinvolves receiving floating payments and making fixed payments synthesises a fixed rate long-termdebt. Each of the individual financial instruments that together constitute a 'synthetic instrument'represents a contractual right or obligation with its own terms and conditions and each may betransferred or settled separately. Each financial instrument is exposed to risks that may differ from therisks to which other financial instruments are exposed. Accordingly, when one financial instrument ina 'synthetic instrument' is an asset and another is a liability, they are not offset and presented in anentity's statement of financial position on a net basis unless they meet the criteria for offsetting inparagraph 42.

LKAS 33 - Earnings per Share

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 4When an entity presents both consolidated financial statements and separate financial statementsprepared in accordance with SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and LKAS 27 SeparateFinancial Statements respectively, the disclosures required by this Standard need be presentedonly on the basis of the consolidated information. An entity that chooses to disclose earnings per

56AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

share based on its separate financial statements shall present such earnings per share informationonly in its statement of comprehensive income. An entity shall not present such earnings per shareinformation in the consolidated financial statements.

Para 4AIf an entity presents items of profit or loss in a separate statement as described in paragraph 10A ofLKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, it presents earnings per share only in that separatestatement.

Para 8Terms defined in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation are used in this Standard with themeanings specified in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32, unless otherwise noted. LKAS 32 defines financialinstrument, financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument, and provides guidance on apply-ing those definitions. SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement defines fair value and sets out requirementsfor applying that definition.

Para 40A subsidiary, joint venture or associate may issue to parties other than the parent or investors withjoint control of, or significant influence over, the investee potential ordinary shares that are convert-ible into either ordinary shares of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate, or ordinary shares of theparent or investors with joint control of, or significant influence (the reporting entity) over, theinvestee. If these potential ordinary shares of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate have a dilutiveeffect on the basic earnings per share of the reporting entity, they are included in the calculation ofdiluted earnings per share.

Para 47AFor share options and other share-based payment arrangements to which SLFRS 2 Share-basedPayment applies, the issue price referred to in paragraph 46 and the exercise price referred to inparagraph 47 shall include the fair value (measured in accordance with SLFRS 2) of any goods orservices to be supplied to the entity in the future under the share option or other share-based paymentarrangement.

Para 54The number of ordinary shares contingently issuable may depend on the future market price of theordinary shares. In that case, if the effect is dilutive, the calculation of diluted earnings per share isbased on the number of ordinary shares that would be issued if the market price at the end of thereporting at the end of the contingency period. If the condition is based on an average of market pricesover a period of time that extends beyond the end of the reporting period, the average for the periodof time that has lapsed is used. Because the market price may change in a future period, the calculationof basic earnings per share does not include such contingently issuable ordinary shares until the endof the contingency period because not all necessary conditions have been satisfied.

Para 67AIf an entity presents items of profit or loss in a separate statement as described in paragraph 10A ofLKAS 1, it presents basic and diluted earnings per share, as required in paragraphs 66 and 67, in thatseparate statement.

Para 68AIf an entity presents items of profit or loss in a separate statement as described in paragraph 10A ofLKAS 1, it presents basic and diluted earnings per share for the discontinued operation, as requiredin paragraph 68, in that separate statement or in the notes.

Para 73AParagraph 73 applies also to an entity that discloses, in addition to basic and diluted earnings pershare, amounts per share using a reported item of profit or loss, other than one required by thisStandard.

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

57AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 74An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies the Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 74BSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 4, 40 and A11.An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11.

Para 74CSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 8, 47A and A2. An entity shall apply thoseamendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 74DPresentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraphs 4A, 67A, 68A and 73A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it appliesLKAS 1 as amended in 2014.

Para A2The issue of ordinary shares at the time of exercise or conversion of potential ordinary shares doesnot usually give rise to a bonus element. This is because the potential ordinary shares are usuallyissued for fair value, resulting in a proportionate change in the resources available to the entity. In arights issue, however, the exercise price is often less than the fair value of the shares. Therefore, asnoted in paragraph 27(b), such a rights issue includes a bonus element. If a rights issue is offered toall existing shareholders, the number of ordinary shares to be used in calculating basic and dilutedearnings per share for all periods before the rights issue is the number of ordinary shares outstandingbefore the issue, multiplied by the following factor:

Fair value per share immediately before the exerciseof rights

Theoretical ex-rights fair value per share

The theoretical ex-rights fair value per share is calculated by adding the aggregate fair value of theshares immediately before the exercise of the rights to the proceeds from the exercise of the rights, anddividing by the number of shares outstanding after the exercise of the rights. Where the rights are tobe publicly traded separately from the shares before the exercise date, fair value is measured at theclose of the last day on which the shares are traded together with the rights.

A11Potential ordinary shares of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate convertible into either ordinaryshares of the subsidiary, joint venture or associate, or ordinary shares of the parent or investors withjoint control of, or significant influence (the reporting entity) over, the investee are included in thecalculation of diluted earnings per share as follows:

LKAS 34 - Interim Financial Reporting

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 5LKAS 1 defines a complete set of financial statements as including the following components:

(a)a statement of financial position as at the end of the period;

(b)a statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the period;

(c)a statement of changes in equity for the period;

58AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(d)a statement of cash flows for the period;

(e)notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatoryinformation;

(ea)comparative information in respect of the preceding period as specified in paragraphs 38 and38A of LKAS 1; and

(f)a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entityapplies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items in itsfinancial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements in accordance withparagraphs 40A-40D of LKAS 1.

An entity may use titles for the statements other than those used in this Standard. For example, anentity may use the title 'statement of comprehensive income' instead of 'statement of profit or loss andother comprehensive income'.

Para 7Nothing in this Standard is intended to prohibit or discourage an entity from publishing a complete setof financial statements (as described in LKAS 1) in its interim financial report, rather than condensedfinancial statements and selected explanatory notes. Nor does this Standard prohibit or discourage anentity from including in condensed interim financial statements more than the minimum line items orselected explanatory notes as set out in this Standard. The recognition and measurement guidance inthis Standard applies also to complete financial statements for an interim period, and such statementswould include all of the disclosures required by this Standard (particularly the selected note disclo-sures in paragraph 16A) as well as those required by other SLFRSs.

Para 8An interim financial report shall include, at a minimum, the following components:

(a)a condensed statement of financial position;

(b)a condensed statement or condensed statements of profit or loss and other comprehensiveincome;

(c)a condensed statement of changes in equity;

(d)a condensed statement of cash flows; and

(e)selected explanatory notes.

Para 8AIf an entity presents items of profit or loss in a separate statement as described in paragraph 10A ofLKAS 1, it presents interim condensed information from that statement.

Para 11AIf an entity presents items of profit or loss in a separate statement as described in paragraph 10A ofLKAS 1, it presents basic and diluted earnings per share in that statement.

Para 16 (g) (iv)a measure of total assets and liabilities for a particular reportable segment if such amounts areregularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and if there has been a material changefrom the amount disclosed in the last annual financial statements for that reportable segment.

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

59AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 16 (j)for financial instruments, the disclosures about fair value required by paragraphs 91-93(h), 94-96,98 and 99 of SLFRS 13 Fair ValueMeasurement and paragraphs 25, 26 and 28-30 of SLFRS 7Financial Instruments: Disclosures.

Para 16 (k)for entities becoming, or ceasing to be, investment entities, as defined in SLFRS 10 ConsolidatedFinancial Statements, the disclosures in SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entitiesparagraph 9B.

Para 20 (b)statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the current interim period andcumulatively for the current financial year to date, with comparative statements of profit or loss andother comprehensive income for the comparable interim periods (current and year-to-date) of theimmediately preceding financial year. As permitted by LKAS 1, an interim report may present foreach period a statement or statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.

Para 46This Standard becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged.

Para 50SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, added paragraph 16A(j). An entity shall apply that amendment whenit applies SLFRS 13.

Para 51Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014,amended paragraphs 8, 8A, 11A and 20. An entity shall apply those amendments when it appliesLKAS 1 as amended in 2014.

Para 52Adoption of IASB's Annual Improvements (2009 - 2011 Cycle, issued in May 2012), amended para-graph 5 as a consequential amendment derived from the amendment to LKAS 1 Presentation ofFinancial Statements. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance withLKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periodsbeginning on or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amend-ment for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Para 53Adoption of IASB's Annual Improvements (2009 - 2011 Cycle, issued in May 2012), amended para-graph 16A. An entity shall apply that amendment retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginningon or after 1 January 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies that amendment for anearlier period it shall disclose that fact.

LKAS 36 - Impairment of Assets

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

In addition to the below changes, throughout this standard "to sell" term has been replace by "of disposal"

Para 4This Standard applies to financial assets classified as:

(a)subsidiaries, as defined in SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements;

(b)associates, as defined in LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures; and

60AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(c)joint ventures, as defined in SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.

For impairment of other financial assets, refer to LKAS 39.

Para 5This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39, investment propertymeasured at fair value with in the scope of LKAS 40, or biological assets related to agriculturalactivity measured at fair value less costs to sell with in the scope of LKAS 41. However, this Standardapplies to assets that are carried at revalued amount (ie fair value at the date of the revaluation less anysubsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses) in accor-dance with other SLFRSs, such as the revaluation model in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipmentand LKAS 38 Intangible Assets. The only difference between an asset's fair value and its fair valueless costs of disposal is the direct incremental costs attributable to the disposal of the asset.

(a)If the disposal costs are negligible, the recoverable amount of the revalued asset is necessarilyclose to, or greater than, its revalued amount. In this case, after the revaluation requirementshave been applied, it is unlikely that the revalued asset is impaired and recoverable amount neednot be estimated.

(b)[deleted]

(c)If the disposal costs are not negligible, the fair value less costs of disposal of the revalued assetis necessarily less than its fair value. Therefore, the revalued asset will be impaired if its value inuse is less than its revalued amount. In this case, after the revaluation requirements have beenapplied, an entity applies this Standard to determine whether the asset may be impaired.

Para 6The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised after deducting any accumulateddepreciation (amortisation) and accumulated impairment losses thereon.

A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows thatare largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.

Corporate assets are assets other than goodwill that contribute to the future cash flows of both thecash-generating unit under review and other cash-generating units.

Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset or cash-generating unit, excluding finance costs and income tax expense.

Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost in the financialstatements, less its residual value.

Depreciation (Amortisation) is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset overits useful life 5.

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

5In the case of an intangible asset, the term ‘amortisation’ is generally used instead of ‘depreciation’. The two terms have the same meaning.

61AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generatingunit exceeds its recoverable amount.

The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value lesscosts of disposal and its value in use.

Useful life is either:

(a)the period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the entity; or

(b)the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the entity.

Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.

Para 12In assessing whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired, an entity shall consider,as a minimum, the following indications:

External sources of information

(a)there are observable indications that the asset's value has declined during the periodsignificantly more than would be expected as a result of the passage of time or normal use.

(b)significant changes with an adverse effect on the entity have taken place during the period, orwill take place in the near future, in the technological, market, economic or legal environmentin which the entity operates or in the market to which an asset is dedicated.

(c)market interest rates or other market rates of return on investments have increased duringthe period, and those increases are likely to affect the discount rate used in calculating anasset's value in use and decrease the asset's recoverable amount materially.

(d)the carrying amount of the net assets of the entity is more than its market capitalisation.

Internal sources of information

(e)evidence is available of obsolescence or physical damage of an asset.

(f)significant changes with an adverse effect on the entity have taken place during the period, orare expected to take place in the near future, in the extent to which, or manner in which, anasset is used or is expected to be used. These changes include the asset becoming idle, plans todiscontinue or restructure the operation to which an asset belongs, plans to dispose of an assetbefore the previously expected date, and reassessing the useful life of an asset as finite ratherthan indefinite 6.

6 Once an asset meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or is included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale), it is excluded from the scope of this

Standard and is accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.

62AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(g)evidence is available from internal reporting that indicates that the economic performance ofan asset is, or will be, worse than expected.

Dividend from a subsidiary, joint venture or associate

(h)for an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the investor recognises adividend from the investment and evidence is available that:

(i)the carrying amount of the investment in the separate financial statements exceeds thecarry ing amounts in the consolidated financial statements of the investee's netassets, including associated goodwill; or

(ii)the dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary, joint venture orassociate in the period the dividend is declared.

Para 18This Standard defines recoverable amount as the higher of an asset's or cash-generating unit's fairvalue less costs of disposal and its value in use. Paragraphs 19-57 set out the requirements formeasuring recoverable amount. These requirements use the term 'an asset' but apply equally to anindividual asset or a cash-generating unit.

Para 20It may be possible to measure fair value less costs of disposal, even if there is not a quoted price inan active market for an identical asset. However, sometimes it will not be possible to measure fair valueless costs of disposal because there is no basis for making a reliable estimate of the price at which anorderly transaction to sell the asset would take place between market participants at the measurementdate under current market conditions. In this case, the entity may use the asset's value in use as itsrecoverable amount.

Fair value less costs of disposal

Para 53AFair value differs from value in use. Fair value reflects the assumptions market participants would usewhen pricing the asset. In contrast, value in use reflects the effects of factors that may be specific tothe entity and not applicable to entities in general. For example, fair value does not reflect any of thefollowing factors to the extent that they would not be generally available to market participants:

(a)additional value derived from the grouping of assets (such as the creation of a portfolio ofinvestment properties in different locations);

(b)synergies between the asset being measured and other assets;

(c)legal rights or legal restrictions that are specific only to the current owner of the asset; and

(d)tax benefits or tax burdens that are specific to the current owner of the asset.

63AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 81Goodwill recognised in a business combination is an asset representing the future economic benefitsarising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified andseparately recognised. Goodwill does not generate cash flows independently of other assets orgroups of assets, and often contributes to the cash flows of multiple cash-generating units. Goodwillsometimes cannot be allocated on a non-arbitrary basis to individual cash-generating units, but onlyto groups of cash-generating units. As a result, the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwillis monitored for internal management purposes sometimes comprises a number of cash-generatingunits to which the goodwill relates, but to which it cannot be allocated. References in paragraphs 83-99 and Appendix B to a cash-generating unit to which goodwill is allocated should be read asreferences also to a group of cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.

Para 105 (a)its fair value less costs of disposal (if measurable);

Para 111 (a)there are observable indications that the asset's value has increased significantly during the period.

Para 130An entity shall disclose the following for an individual asset (including goodwill) or a cash-generat-ing unit, for which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed during the period:

(a)the events and circumstances that led to the recognition or reversal of the impairment loss.

(b)the amount of the impairment loss recognised or reversed.

(c)for an individual asset:

(i)the nature of the asset; and

(ii)if the entity reports segment information in accordance with SLFRS 8, the reportable segment to which the asset belongs.

(d)for a cash-generating unit:

(i)a description of the cash-generating unit (such as whether it is a product line, a plant, abusiness operation, a geographical area, or a reportable segment as defined in SLFRS 8);

(ii)the amount of the impairment loss recognised or reversed by class of assets and, if theentity reports segment information in accordance with SLFRS 8, by reportable segment;and

(iii)if the aggregation of assets for identifying the cash-generating unit has changed sincethe previous estimate of the cash-generating unit's recoverable amount (if any), a de-scription of the current and former way of aggregating assets and the reasons for chang-ing the way the cash generating unit is identified.

(e)the recoverable amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) and whether the recoverable amountof the asset (cash-generating unit) is its fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use.

64AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(f)if the recoverable amount is fair value less costs of disposal, the entity shall disclose thefollowing information:

(i)the level of the fair value hierarchy (see SLFRS 13) within which the fair valuemeasurement of the asset(cash-generating unit) is categorised in its entirety (withouttaking into account whether the 'costs of disposal' are observable);

(ii)for fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair valuehierarchy, a description of the valuation technique(s) used to measure fair value less costsof disposal. If there has been a change in valuation technique, the entity shall disclose thatchange and the reason(s) for making it; and

(iii)for fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair valuehierarchy, each key assumption on which management has based its determination of fairvalue less costs of disposal. Key assumptions are those to which the asset's (cash-generat-ing unit's) recoverable amount is most sensitive. The entity shall also disclose the discountrate(s) used in the current measurement and previous measurement if fair value less costsof disposal is measured using a present value technique.

(g)if recoverable amount is value in use, the discount rate(s) used in the current estimate andprevious estimate (if any) of value in use.

Para 134An entity shall disclose the information required by (a)-(f) for each cash-generating unit (groupof units) for which the carrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite usefullives allocated to that unit (group of units) is significant in comparison with the entity's totalcarrying amount of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite useful lives:

(a)the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit (group of units).

(b)the carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to the unit (groupof units).

(c)the basis on which the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount has been determined (ie valuein use or fair value less costs of disposal).

(d)if the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount is based on value in use:

(i)each key assumption on which management has based its cash flow projections for the periodcovered by the most recent budgets/forecasts. Key assumptions are those to which the unit's(group of units') recoverable amount is most sensitive.

(ii)a description of management's approach to determiningthe value(s) assigned to each key assumption, whether those value(s) reflect past experienceor, if appropriate, are consistent with external sources of information, and, if not, how and whythey differ from past experience or external sources of information.

(iii)the period over which management has projected cash flows based on financial budgets/fore-casts approved by management and, when a period greater than five years is used for a cash-generating unit (group of units), an explanation of why that longer period is justified.

65AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

(iv)the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond the period covered by themost recent budgets/forecasts, and the justification for using any growth rate that ex-ceeds the long-term average growth rate for the products, industries, or country orcountries in which the entity operates, or for the market to which the unit (group of units)is dedicated.

(v)the discount rate(s) applied to the cash flow projections.

(e)if the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal, thevaluation technique(s) used to measure fair value less costs of disposal. An entity is not requiredto provide the disclosures required by SLFRS 13. If fair value less costs of disposal is notmeasured using a quoted price for an identical unit (group of units), an entity shall disclose thefollowing information:

(i)each key assumption on which management has based its determination of fair value lesscosts of disposal. Key assumptions are those to which the unit's (group of units') recov-erable amount is most sensitive.

(ii)a description of management's approach to determining the value (or values) assigned toeach key assumption, whether those values reflect past experience or, if appropriate, areconsistent with external sources of information, and, if not, how and why they differ frompast experience or external sources of information.

(iiA) the level of the fair value hierarchy (see SLFRS 13) within which the fair value measure-ment is categorised in its entirety (without giving regard to the observability of 'costs ofdisposal').

(iiB)if there has been a change in valuation technique, the change and the reason(s) formaking it.

If fair value less costs of disposal is measured using discounted cash flow projections, anentity shall disclose the following information:

(iii)the period over which management has projected cash flows.

(iv)the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flow projections.

(v)the discount rate(s) applied to the cash flow projections.

(f)if a reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which management has based itsdetermination of the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount would cause the unit's (groupof units') carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount:

(i)the amount by which the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount exceeds its carryingamount.

(ii)the value assigned to the key assumption.

(iii)the amount by which the value assigned to the key assumption must change, after incor-porating any consequential effects of that change on the other variables used to measurerecoverable amount, in order for the unit's (group of units') recoverable amount to beequal to its carrying amount.

66AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 139This Sri Lanka Accounting Standard becomes operative for annual financial statements coveringperiods beginning on or after 1, January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies thestandard for a period beginning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose the facts.

Para 140HSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 4, the heading above paragraph12(h) and paragraph 12(h). An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 andSLFRS 11.

Para 140ISLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 5, 6, 12, 20, 22, 28, 78, 105, 111, 130 and 134,deleted paragraphs 25-27 and added paragraph 53A. An entity shall apply those amendments when itapplies SLFRS 13.

Para 140JIn 2014 paragraphs 130 and 134 and the heading above paragraph 138 were amended. An entity shallapply those amendments retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.Earlier application is permitted. An entity shall not apply those amendments in periods (includingcomparative periods) in which it does not also apply SLFRS 13.

LKAS 37 - Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 95This Standard becomes operative for annual financial statements covering periods beginning on orafter 1 January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for periodsbeginning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

LKAS 38 - Intangible Assets

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 3 (e)financial assets as defined in LKAS 32. The recognition and measurement of some financial assets arecovered by SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statementsand LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.

67AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 8The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Amortisation is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an intangible asset over itsuseful life.

An asset is a resource:

(a)controlled by an entity as a result of past events; and

(b)from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity.

Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial positionafter deducting any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses thereon.

Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration given toacquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction, or, when applicable, the amountattributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific requirements ofother SLFRSs, eg SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment.

Depreciable amount is the cost of an asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residualvalue.

Development is the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for theproduction of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems orservices before the start of commercial production or use.

Entity-specific value is the present value of the cash flows an entity expects to arise from thecontinuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life or expects to incur whensettling a liability.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

An impairment loss is the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverableamount.

An intangible asset is an identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance.

Monetary assets are money held and assets to be received in fixed or determinable amounts of money.

Research is original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining newscientific or technical knowledge and understanding.

The residual value of an intangible asset is the estimated amount that an entity would currentlyobtain from disposal of the asset, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal, if the asset werealready of the age and in the condition expected at the end of its useful life.

68AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Useful life is:

(a)the period over which an asset is expected to be available for use by an entity; or

(b)the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by an entity.

Para 33In accordance with SLFRS 3 Business Combinations, if an intangible asset is acquired in a businesscombination, the cost of that intangible asset is its fair value at the acquisition date. The fair value ofan intangible asset will reflect market participants'e xpectations at the acquisition date about theprobability that the expected future economic benefits embodied in the asset will flow to the entity. Inother words, the entity expects there to be an inflow of economic benefits, even if there is uncertaintyabout the timing or the amount of the inflow. Therefore, the probability recognition criterion in para-graph 21(a) is always considered to be satisfied for intangible assets acquired in business combina-tions. If an asset acquired in a business combination is separable or arises from contractual or otherlegal rights, sufficient information exists to measure reliably the fair value of the asset. Thus, thereliable measurement criterion in paragraph 21(b) is always considered to be satisfied for intangibleassets acquired in business combinations.

Intangible asset acquired in a business combination

Para 39Deleted

Para 40Deleted

Para 41Deleted

Para 47Paragraph 21(b) specifies that a condition for the recognition of an intangible asset is that the cost ofthe asset can be measured reliably. The fair value of an intangible asset is reliably measurable if (a) thevariability in the range of reasonable fair value measurements is not significant for that asset or (b)the probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and used whenmeasuring fair value. If an entity is able to measure reliably the fair value of either the asset receivedor the asset given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure cost unless the fairvalue of the asset received is more clearly evident.

Para 50Differences between the fair value of an entity and the carrying amount of its identifiable net assets atany time may capture a range of factors that affect the fair value of the entity. However, such differ-ences do not represent the cost of intangible assets controlled by the entity.

Para 75After initial recognition, an intangible asset shall be carried at a revalued amount, being its fairvalue at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and any subse-quent accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of revaluations under this Standard, fairvalue shall be measured by reference to an active market. Revaluations shall be made with suchregularity that at the end of the reporting period the carrying amount of the asset does not differmaterially from its fair value.

Para 78It is uncommon for an active market to exist for an intangible asset, although this may happen. Forexample, in some jurisdictions, an active market may exist for freely transferable taxi licences, fishinglicences or production quotas. However, an active market cannot exist for brands, newspaper mast-heads, music and film publishing rights, patents or trademarks, because each such asset is unique.

69AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Also, although intangible assets are bought and sold, contracts are negotiated between individualbuyers and sellers, and transactions are relatively infrequent. For these reasons, the price paid for oneasset may not provide sufficient evidence of the fair value of another. Moreover, prices are often notavailable to the public.

Para 82If the fair value of a revalued intangible asset can no longer be measured by reference to an activemarket, the carrying amount of the asset shall be its revalued amount at the date of the last revalu-ation by reference to the active market less any subsequent accumulated amortisation and anysubsequent accumulated impairment losses.

Para 84If the fair value of the asset can be measured by reference to an active market at a subsequentmeasurement date, the revaluation model is applied from that date.

Para 100 (b)there is an active market (as defined in SLFRS 13) for the asset and:

Para 124 (c)Deleted

Para 128 (b)a brief description of significant intangible assets controlled by the entity but not recognised asassets because they did not meet the recognition criteria in this Standard or because they wereacquired or generated before the version of LKAS 38 Intangible Assets was effective.

Para 130An entity shall apply this Standard:

(a)to the accounting for intangible assets acquired in business combinations for which the agree-ment date is on or after 1st January 2012; and

(b)to the accounting for all other intangible assets prospectively from the beginning of the firstannual period beginning on or after 1st January 2012. Thus, the entity shall not adjust thecarrying amount of intangible assets recognised at that date. However, the entity shall, at thatdate, apply this Standard to reassess the useful lives of such intangible assets. If, as a result ofthat reassessment, the entity changes its assessment of the useful life of an asset, that changeshall be accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with LKAS 8.

Para 130FSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 3(e). An entityshall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11.

Para 130GSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 8, 33, 47, 50, 75, 78, 82, 84, 100 and 124 and deletedparagraphs 39-41 and 130E. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

LKAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

In addition to the below changes, throughout this standard "determined" term has been replace by "measured"

Para 2 (a)those interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that are accounted for in accordancewith SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements orLKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, SLFRS 10,

70AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,associate or joint venture in accordance with some or all of the requirements of this Standard.Entities shall also apply this Standard to derivatives on an interest in a subsidiary, associate orjoint venture unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument of the entity inLKAS 32.

Para 2 (g)any forward contract between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an acquiree thatwill result in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3 Business Combinations at afuture acquisition date. The term of the forward contract should not exceed a reasonable periodnormally necessary to obtain any required approvals and to complete the transaction.

Para 9Definition of a derivative

Para 9 (b)It should be noted that SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement sets out the requirements formeasuring the fair value of a financial asset or financial liability, whether by designation or other-wise, or whose fair value is disclosed.

Para 9The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or afinancial liability (or group of financial assets or financial liabilities) and of allocating the interestincome or interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate thatexactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the finan-cial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financialasset or financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, an entity shall estimate cashflows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, calland similar options) but shall not consider future credit losses. The calculation includes all fees andpoints paid or received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the effectiveinterest rate (see LKAS 18 Revenue), transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts.There is a presumption that the cash flows and the expected life of a group of similar financialinstruments can be estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is not possible toestimate reliably the cash flows or the expected life of a financial instrument (or group of financialinstruments), the entity shall use the contractual cash flows over the full contractual term of thefinancial instrument (or group of financial instruments).

Derecognition is the removal of a previously recognised financial asset or financial liability from anentity's statement of financial position.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13.)

Para 13If an entity is unable to measure reliably the fair value of an embedded derivative on the basis of itsterms and conditions (for example, because the embedded derivative is based on an equity instrumentthat does not have a quoted price in an active market for an identical instrument, ie a Level 1 input), thefair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value of the hybrid (combined)instrument and the fair value of the host contract. If the entity is unable to measure the fair value ofthe embedded derivative using this method, paragraph 12 applies and the hybrid (combined)instrument is designated as at fair value through profit or loss.

Para 15In consolidated financial statements, paragraphs 16-23 and Appendix A paragraphs AG34-AG52 areapplied at a consolidated level. Hence, an entity first consolidates all subsidiaries in accordance with

71AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

SLFRS 10 and then applies paragraphs 16-23 and Appendix A paragraphs AG34-AG52 to the resultinggroup.

Para 43AHowever, if the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability at initial recognition differsfrom the transaction price, an entity shall apply paragraph AG76.

Para 46 (c)investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted price in an active market and whose fairvalue cannot be reliably measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by deliveryof such equity instruments, which shall be measured at cost (see Appendix A paragraphs AG80 andAG81).

HeadingDeleted

Para 48Deleted

Para 48ADeleted

Para 49Deleted

Para 66If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred on an equity instrumentthat does not have a quoted price in an active market and that is not carried at fair value becauseits fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must besettled by delivery of such an equity instrument, the amount of the impairment loss is measuredas the difference between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value ofestimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similarfinancialasset (see paragraph 46(c) and Appendix A paragraphs AG80 andAG81). Such impairment lossesshall not be reversed.

Para 80For hedge accounting purposes, only assets, liabilities, firm commitments or highly probable forecasttransactions that involve a party external to the entity can be designated as hedged items. It followsthat hedge accounting can be applied to transactions between entities in the same group only in theindividual or separate financial statements of those entities and not in the consolidated financialstatements of the group, except for the consolidated financial statements of an investment entity, asdefined in SLFRS 10, where transactions between an investment entity and its subsidiaries mea-sured at fair value through profit or loss will not be eliminated in the consolidated financial state-ments. As an exception, the foreign currency risk of an intragroup monetary item (eg. a payable/receivable between two subsidiaries) may qualify as a hedged item in the consolidated financialstatements if it results in an exposure to foreign exchange rate gains or losses that are not fullyeliminated on consolidation in accordance with LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in ForeignExchangeRates. In accordance with LKAS 21, foreign exchange rate gains and losses on intragroup monetaryitems are not fully eliminated on consolidation when the intragroup monetary item is transactedbetween two group entities that have different functional currencies. In addition, the foreign currencyrisk of a highly probable forecast intragroup transaction may qualify as a hedged item in consolidatedfinancial statements provided that the transaction is denominated in a currency other than the func-tional currency of the entity entering into that transaction and the foreign currency risk will affectconsolidated profit or loss.

Para 88 (d)The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, ie the fair value or cash flows of the hedgeditem that are attributable to the hedged risk and the fair value of the hedging instrument can bereliably measured.

72AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 91 (a)the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised. For this purpose, the replace-ment or rollover of a hedging instrument into another hedging instrument is not an expiration ortermination if such replacement or rollover is part of the entity's documented hedging strategy.Additionally, for this purpose there is not an expiration or termination of the hedging instrumentif:

(i)as a consequence of laws or regulations or the introduction of laws or regulations, the partiesto the hedging instrument agree that one or more clearing counterparties replace theiroriginal counterparty to become the new counterparty to each of the parties. For this purpose,a clearing counterparty is a central counterparty (sometimes called a 'clearing organisation'or 'clearing agency') or an entity or entities, for example, a clearing member of a clearingorganisation or a client of a clearing member of a clearing organisation, that are acting ascounterparty in order to effect clearing by a central counterparty. However, when the parties tothe hedging instrument replace their original counterparties with different counterpartiesthis paragraph shall apply only if each of those parties effects clearing with the same centralcounterparty.

(ii)other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are necessary toeffect such a replacement of the counterparty. Such changes are limited to those that areconsistent with the terms that would be expected if the hedging instrument were originallycleared with the clearing counterparty. These changes include changes in the collateralrequirements, rights to offset receivables and payables balances, and charges levied.

Para 101 (a)The hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised. In this case, the cumulativegain or loss on the hedging instrument that has been recognised in other comprehensive incomefrom the period when the hedge was effective (see paragraph 95(a)) shall remain separately inequity until the forecast transaction occurs. When the transaction occurs, paragraph 97, 98 or100 applies. For the purpose of this subparagraph, the replacement or rollover of a hedginginstrument into another hedging instrument is not an expiration or termination if such replace-ment or rollover is part of the entity's documented hedging strategy. Additionally, for the purposeof this subparagraph there is not an expiration or termination of the hedging instrument if:

(i)as a consequence of laws or regulations or the introduction of laws or regulations, theparties to the hedging instrument agree that one or more clearing counterpartiesreplace their original counterparty to become the new counterparty to each of theparties. For this purpose, a clearing counterparty is a central counterparty (some-times called a 'clearing organisation' or 'clearing agency') or an entity or entities,for example, a clearing member of a clearing organisation or a client of a clearingmember of a clearing organisation, that are acting as counterparty in order to effectclearing by a central counterparty. However, when the parties to the hedging instru-ment replace their original counterparties with different counterparties this para-graph shall apply only if each of those parties effects clearing with the same centralcounterparty.

(ii)other changes, if any, to the hedging instrument are limited to those that are neces-sary to effect such a replacement of the counterparty. Such changes are limited tothose that are consistent with the terms that would be expected if the hedging instru-ment were originally cleared with the clearing counterparty. These changes includechanges in the collateral requirements, rights to offset receivables and payables bal-ances, and charges levied.

73AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 103An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is permitted. An entity shall not apply this Standard for annual periods beginning before1 January 2012 unless it also applies LKAS 32.If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginningbefore 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 103AAn entity shall apply the amendment in paragraph 2(j) for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2012. If an entity applies IFRIC 5 Rights to Interests arising from Decommissioning, Restora-tion and Environmental Rehabilitation Funds for an earlier period, this amendment shall be appliedfor that earlier period.

Para 103PSLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 2(a), 15, AG3,AG36-AG38 and AG4I (a). An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 10 andSLFRS 11.

Para 103QSLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 9, 13, 28, 47, 88, AG46, AG52, AG64, AG76,AG76A, AG80, AG81 and AG96, added paragraph 43A and deleted paragraphs 48-49, AG69-AG75,AG77-AG79 and AG82. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

Para 108DNovation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge Accounting (Amendments to LKAS 39), issuedin 2014, amended paragraphs 91 and 101 and added paragraph AG113A. An entity shall apply thoseparagraphs for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. An entity shall apply thoseamendments retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes inAccountingEstimates and Errors. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amend-ments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.

Para AG3Sometimes, an entity makes what it views as a "strategic investment" in equity instruments issuedby another entity, with the intention of establishing or maintaining a long-term operating rela-tionship with the entity in which the investment is made. The investor or joint venturer entityuses LKAS 28 to determine whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate for such aninvestment. If the equity method is not appropriate, the entity applies this Standard to thatstrategic investment.

Para AG4IThe entity is a venture capital organisation, mutual fund, unit trust or similar entity whosebusiness is investing in financial assets with a view to profiting from their total return in the formof interest or dividends and changes in fair value. LKAS 28 allows such investments to bemeasured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with this Standard.An entity mayapply the same accounting policy to other investments managed on a total return basis but overwhich its influence is insufficient for them to be within the scope of LKAS 28.

HeadingDeleted

Para AG34Deleted

Para AG35Deleted

Para AG37The situation described in paragraph 18(b) (when an entity retains the contractual rights toreceive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cashflows to one or more recipients) occurs, for example, if the entity is a trust, and issues to investorsbeneficial interests in the underlying financial assets that it owns and provides servicing ofthose financial assets. In that case, the financial assets qualify for derecognition if the conditionsin paragraphs 19 and 20 are met.

74AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para AG38In applying paragraph 19, the entity could be, for example, the originator of the financial asset, or itcould be a group that includes a subsidiary that has acquired the financial asset and passes on cashflows to unrelated third party investors.

Para AG46When measuring the fair values of the part that continues to be recognised and the part that isderecognised for the purposes of applying paragraph 27, an entity applies the fair value measure-ment requirements in SLFRS 13 in addition to paragraph 28.

Para AG64The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is normally the transaction price (ie.the fair value of the consideration given or received, see also SLFRS 13 and paragraph AG76).However, if part of the consideration given or received is for something other than the financialinstrument, an entity shall measure the fair value of the financial instrument. For example, the fairvalue of a long-term loan or receivable that carries no interest can be measured as the presentvalue of all future cash receipts discounted using the prevailing market rate(s) of interest for asimilar instrument (similar as to currency, term, type of interest rate and other factors) with asimilar credit rating. Any additional amount lent is an expense or a reduction of income unless itqualifies for recognition as some other type of asset.

HeadingDeleted

Para AG69Deleted

Para AG70Deleted

HeadingDeleted

Para AG71Deleted

Para AG72Deleted

Para AG73Deleted

HeadingDeleted

Para AG74Deleted

Para AG75Deleted

Para AG76The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is normally thetransaction price (ie. the fair value of the consideration given or received, see also SLFRS 13). If anentity determines that the fair value at initial recognition differs from the transaction price as men-tioned in paragraph 43A, the entity shall account for that instrument at that date as follows:

(a)at the measurement required by paragraph 43 if that fair value is evidenced by a quotedprice in an active market for an identical asset or liability (ie. a Level 1 input) or based ona valuation technique that uses only data from observable markets. An entity shallrecognise the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the transactionprice as a gain or loss.

(b)in all other cases, at the measurement required by paragraph 43, adjusted to defer thedifference between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction price. After

75AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

initial recognition, the entity shall recognise that deferred difference as a gain or loss onlyto the extent that it arises from a change in a factor (including time) that market partici-pants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability.

Para AG76AThe subsequent measurement of the financial asset or financial liability and the subsequentrecognition of gains and losses shall be consistent with the requirements of this Standard.

Para AG77Deleted

Para AG78Deleted

Para AG79Deleted

Para AG80The fair value of investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted price in an active marketfor an identical instrument (ie a Level 1 input) and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled bydelivery of such an equity instrument (see paragraphs 46(c) and 47) is reliably measurable if (a) thevariability in the range of reasonable fair value measurements is not significant for that instrument or(b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and usedwhen measuring fair value.

Para AG81There are many situations in which the variability in the range of reasonable fair value measurementsof investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted price in an active market for anidentical instrument (ie a Level 1 input) and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled bydelivery of such an equity instrument (see paragraphs 46(c) and 47) is likely not to be significant.Normally it is possible to measure the fair value of a financial asset that an entity has acquired from anoutside party. However, if the range of reasonable fair value measurements is significant and theprobabilities of the various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed, an entity is precluded frommeasuring the instrument at fair value.

HeadingDeleted

Para AG82Deleted

Para AG96An investment in an equity instrument that does not have a quoted price in an active market for anidentical instrument (ie a Level 1 input) is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannototherwise be reliably measured or a derivative that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of suchan equity instrument (see paragraphs 46(c) and 47) cannot be designated as a hedging instrument.

Para AG113AFor the avoidance of doubt, the effects of replacing the original counterparty with a clearingcounterparty and making the associated changes as described in paragraphs 91(a)(ii) and 101(a)(ii)shall be reflected in the measurement of the hedging instrument and therefore in the assessment ofhedge effectiveness and the measurement of hedge effectiveness.

Para AG133An entity may have designated a forecast intragroup transaction as a hedged item at the start of anannual period beginning on or after 1 January 2012 (or, for the purpose of restating comparativeinformation, the start of an earlier comparative period) in a hedge that would qualify for hedge ac-counting in accordance with this Standard (as amended by the last sentence of paragraph 80). Such anentity may use that designation to apply hedge accounting in consolidated financial statements fromthe start of the annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2012 (or the start of the earlier compara-tive period). Such an entity shall also apply paragraphs AG99A and AG99B from the start of the annualperiod beginning on or after 1 January 2012. However, in accordance with paragraph 108B, it need notapply paragraph AG99B to comparative information for earlier periods.

76AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

LKAS 40 - Investment Property

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

In addition to the below changes, throughout this standard "determined" term has been replace by "measured"

Para 5The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financialposition.

Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration given toacquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amountattributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific requirements ofother SLFRSs, eg SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement)..

Investment property is property (land or a building-or part of a building-or both) held (by the owneror by the lessee under a finance lease) to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather thanfor:

(a)use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes; or

(b)sale in the ordinary course of business.

Owner-occupied property is property held (by the owner or by the lessee under a finance lease) foruse in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.

Para 26Any premium paid for a lease is treated as part of the minimum lease payments for this purpose, andis therefore included in the cost of the asset, but is excluded from the liability. If a property interestheld under a lease is classified as investment property, the item accounted for at fair value is thatinterest and not the underlying property. Guidance on measuring the fair value of a property interestis set out for the fair value model in paragraphs 33-35, 40, 41, 48, 50 and 52 and in SLFRS 13. Thatguidance is also relevant to the measurement of fair value when that value is used as cost for initialrecognition purposes.

Para 29The fair value of an asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonablefair value measurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the variousestimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. Ifthe entity is able to measure reliably the fair value of either the asset received or the asset givenup, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure cost unless the fair value of theasset received is more clearly evident.

Para 36Deleted

Para 37Deleted

77AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 38Deleted

Para 39Deleted

Para 40When measuring the fair value of investment property in accordance with SLFRS 13, an entity shallensure that the fair value reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and otherassumptions that market participants would use when pricing investment property under currentmarket conditions.

Para 42Deleted

Para 43Deleted

Para 44Deleted

Para 45Deleted

Para 46Deleted

Para 47Deleted

Para 48In exceptional cases, there is clear evidence when an entity first acquires an investment property (orwhen an existing property first becomes investment property after a change in use) that the variabilityin the range of reasonable fair value measurements will be so great, and the probabilities of thevarious outcomes so difficult to assess, that the usefulness of a single measure of fair value isnegated. This may indicate that the fair value of the property will not be reliably measurable on acontinuing basis (see paragraph 53).

Para 49Deleted

Para 51Deleted

Para 53There is a rebuttable presumption that an entity can reliably measure the fair value of an investmentproperty on a continuing basis. However, in exceptional cases, there is clear evidence when an entityfirst acquires an investment property (or when an existing property first becomes investment prop-erty after a change in use) that the fair value of the investment property is not reliably measurableon a continuing basis. This arises when, and only when, the market for comparable properties isinactive (eg there are few recent transactions, price quotations are not current or observedtransaction prices indicate that the seller was forced to sell) and alternative reliable measurementsof fair value (for example, based on discounted cash flow projections) are not available. If an entitydetermines that the fair value of an investment property under construction is not reliablymeasurable but expects the fair value of the property to be reliably measurable when con-struction is complete, it shall measure that investment property under construction at costuntil either its fair value becomes reliably measurable or construction is completed (which-ever is earlier). If an entity determines that the fair value of an investment property (otherthan an investment property under construction) is not reliably measurable on a continuingbasis, the entity shall measure that investment property using the cost model in LKAS 16.The residual value of the investment property shall be assumed to be zero. The entity shallapply LKAS 16 until disposal of the investment property.

Para 75 (d)Deleted

78AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 80 (a)if the entity has previously disclosed publicly (in financial statements or otherwise) the fair value ofthose property interests in earlier periods (measured on a basis that satisfies the definition of fairvalue in SLFRS 13), the entity is encouraged, but not required:

Para 85An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlierapplication is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 85 (c)SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 5, amended para-graphs 26, 29, 32, 40, 48, 53, 53B, 78-80 and 85B and deleted paragraphs 36-39, 42-47, 49, 51 and 75(d).An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.and 85B and deleted paragraphs36-39, 42-47, 49, 51 and 75(d). An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

LKAS 41 - Agriculture

Existing ParaReplaced /added paragraphReference

Para 8The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:

Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financialposition.

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in anorderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 FairValue Measurement.)

Government grants are as defined in LKAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosureof Government Assistance.

Para 9Deleted

Para 15The fair value measurement of a biological asset or agricultural produce may be facilitated by group-ing biological assets or agricultural produce according to significant attributes; for example, by age orquality. An entity selects the attributes corresponding to the attributes used in the market as a basisfor pricing.

Para 16Entities often enter into contracts to sell their biological assets or agricultural produce at a future date.Contract prices are not necessarily relevant in measuring fair value, because fair value reflects thecurrent market conditions in which market participant buyers and sellers would enter into atransaction. As a result, the fair value of a biological asset or agricultural produce is not adjustedbecause of the existence of a contract. In some cases, a contract for the sale of a biological asset oragricultural produce may be an onerous contract, as defined in LKAS 37 Provisions, ContingentLiabilities and Contingent Assets. LKAS 37 applies to onerous contracts.

Para 17Deleted

Para 18Deleted

Para 19Deleted

79AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'12'31PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.12.2014

Para 20Deleted

Para 21Deleted

Para 23Deleted

Para 30There is a presumption that fair value can be measured reliably for a biological asset. How-ever, that presumption can be rebutted only on initial recognition for a biological asset forwhich quoted market prices are not available and for which alternative fair valuemeasurements are determined to be clearly unreliable. In such a case, that biological assetshall be measured at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impair-ment losses. Once the fair value of such a biological asset becomes reliably measurable, anentity shall measure it at its fair value less costs to sell. Once a non-current biological assetmeets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or is included in a disposal group that isclassified as held for sale) in accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale andDiscontinued Operations, it is presumed that fair value can be measured reliably.

Para 47Deleted

Para 48Deleted

Para 58This Standard becomes operative for annual financial statements covering periods beginning on orafter 1 January 2012. Earlier application is encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for periodsbeginning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that fact.

Para 61SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 8, 15, 16, 25 and 30 and deleted paragraphs9, 17-21, 23, 47 and 48. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.

01-437

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.