==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20181A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Government Notifications

w;s úfYI

wxl 2096$18 - 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 05 jeks i÷od - 2018'11'05

No. 2096/18 - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

1A - G 27788 — 377 (11/2018)

THE CONSTITUTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Notification

IT is hereby notified by me that whereas the Ministries, subjects and functions thereof to be assigned in terms of Article44(2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to the Ministers who are not members of theCabinet of Ministers appointed by me in the exercise of powers vested in me under Article 44(1) of the Constitution havebeen determined, the Ministries, subjects and functions of the said Ministries, the departments, state corporations andstatutory institutions under the purview of the said Ministries shall be as set out in the Schedule given below with effectfrom 05th November 2018.

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,

President.

Presidential Secretariat,Colombo 01,November 05, 2018.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20182A

1. Formulation of policies

programmes and projects;implementation, monitoring andevaluation in relation to thesubject of National Unity &Co-existence and MuslimReligious Affairs and thosesubjects that come under thepurview of Departments,Statutory Institutions andPublic Corporations listed inColumn II.

2. To formulating policies with

the objective of promotingnational unity and co-existencein order to promote the SriLankan Identity.

3. Advising Government

authorities on policies andactions required for nationalunity and co-existence to buildlasting peace.

4. Advising Government

authorities on issues that mayemerge in the process of peacebuilding

5. Advising Government

authorities on presentingproposals for appropriatesolutions to such issues

6. Formulating of programmes and

projects for building an inclusiveunited society and promoting ofco-existence.

7. Monitoring and evaluating

relevant programmes andprojects under implementation atfield level.

1. Office for National Unity and

Reconciliation (An institutionimplementing the mission ofthe Ministry)

2. Office on Missing Persons

3. Department of Muslim

Religious and Cultural Affairs

• Office on missing persons

(Establishment, Administrationand Discharge of functions)Act No.14 of 2016

• Mosque and Muslim Charitable

Trusts or Wakf Act, No 51 of1956

• All other legislations

pertaining to the subjectsspecified in Column I andColumn II, and not specificallybrought under the purview ofany other Minister.

SCHEDULE

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(1) State Minister of National Unity & Co-existence and Muslim Religious Affairs

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20183A

8. Proposing to the government

measures for resolving issuesthat may result in difference ofopinion and conflicts within andbetween different communitiesand implementing suchproposals and monitoring

9. To identify serious differences

of opinion within and betweendifferent communities that maylead to conflicts andformulating and recommendingnecessary measures to be takenin order to difence suchsituations

10. Formulating programmes on

subjects such as education, law,politics, economics, social andcultural subjects in line with thepolicies indicated at 1 above andimplementing and monitoringsuch programmes

11. Maintaining a dialogue with the

Government businesscommunity and the Non-Governmental sectors with aview to seeking their views andparticipation in the programmeslaunch by the Office forNational Unity andReconciliation.

12. Intervening where necessary the

implementating of proposals ofthe Lessons Learnt andReconciliation Commission ofInquiry. (LLRC)

13. Establish contacts with the

International Community with aview to securing expertise andfinancial assistance

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(1) State Minister of National Unity & Co-existence and Muslim Religious Affairs (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20184A

14. Seeking funding if necessary

for the above programmes andprojects by adoption ofappropriate methodologies.

15. Attending to all matters relating

to the Office on MissingPersons (Establishment,Administration and Dischargeof Functions) Act, No.14 of2016.

16. Formulating of policies,

programmes and projects toinculcate religious values inpeople aimed building avirtuous society

17. Implementating and monitoring

programmes related to Muslimreligious affairs

18. All other subjects assigned to

the Institutions specified inColumn II.

19. Supervision of Institutions

specified in Column II.

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(1) State Minister of National Unity & Co-existence and Muslim Religious Affairs (Contd.)

(2) Minister of Youth, Women & Child Affairs

1. Formulation of policies,

programmes and projects;implementation, monitoring andevaluation in relation to thesubject of youth, women andchildren and those subjects thatcome under the purview ofInstitutions listed in Column II

2. Adoption of measures for the

advancement of women’squality of life

1. Sri Lanka Women’s Bureau

2. National Committee on

Women

3. Department of Probation

and Childcare Services

4. National Child Protection

Authority

5. Children’s Secretariat

• Prevention of Domestic

Violence Act, No. 34 of 2005

• National Child Protection

Authority Act, No. 50 of 1998

• Adoption of Children

Ordinance, No. 24 of 1941

• Children and Young Persons

Ordinance, No. 48 of 1939

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20185A

3. Formulation and

implementation of strategiesfor the enhancement ofwomen’s participation and theirrepresentation in the sphere ofdecision making in publicaffairs and politics

4. Adoption of measures for

empowerment of women withspecial focus on groupsaffected by conflict andpoverty, and to ensure genderequality and equity

5. Implementation and

strengthening of laws andpolicies for the prevention ofwomen and child abuse

6. Formulation and

implementation of policies andprogrammes for empowermentof women-headed households

7. Accomplishment of sustainable

development goals

8. Implementation of the

Women’s Charter

9. Formulation of policies and

programmes on early childhoodcare and development aimed atbringing up a physically andmentally healthy child,coordination and liaison withprovincial level committees,and monitoring of activities

10. Formulation and

implementation of plans,programmes and projects topromote rights of vulnerablechildren in line with national

6. National Youth Services

Council

7. National Youth Corps

8. National Youth Awards

Authority

9. National Youths Services

Co-operative Limited

10. National Centre for

Leadership Development

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(2) State Minister of Youth, Women & Child Affairs (Contd.)

• National Youth Service Council

Act, No. 69 of 1979

• Youth Corps Act, No. 21 of

2002

• All other legislations pertaining

to the subjects specified inColumn I and II, and notspecifically brought under thepurview of any other Minister.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20186A

policies and internationalstandards, thereby ensuringequal opportunities for them

11. Implementation of the

Children’s Charter

12. Regulating of Day Care Centres

13. Implementation of the Sevana

Sarana Foster-Parent Scheme

14. Formulation and

implementation of attitudinaldevelopment programmes thataim to guide the younggeneration in the right direction

15. Implementation of youth-

centric internationaldevelopment cooperationprogrammes

16. Implementation of unemployed

youth-centric skillsdevelopment programmes

17. Youth organization related work

18. Formulation volunteer

programmes for youthcommunity

19. Matters relating to all other

subjects assigned to Institutionslisted in Column II

20. Supervision of the Institutions

listed in Column II

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(2) State Minister of Youth, Women & Child Affairs (Contd.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20187A

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(3) State Minister of Mass Media & Digital Infrastructure

1. Formulation of policies,

programmes and projects;implementation, monitoringand evaluation in relation to thesubject of mass media & digitalinfrastructure and thosesubjects that come under thepurview of Departments,Statutory Institutions andPublic Corporations listed inColumn II

2. Formulation of strategies for

the mass media to contribute asa proactive agent in economic,social, cultural and politicalfields by focusing people’sattitudes on positive aspects

3. Implementation of programmes

aimed at developing knowledge,attitudes and a sense ofappreciation in the people

4. Adoption of necessary

measures to ensure people’sright to correct information

5. Implementation of programmes

to create a high level of mediaethic

6. Release of official

communiqués and news to themedia

7. Release of relevant

information about Sri Lanka tolocal and foreign mediainstitutions

8. Provision of information and

publicity material to Sri LankaMissions abroad

1. Department of Information

2. Sri Lanka Press Council

3. Sri Lanka Broadcasting

Corporation

4. Sri Lanka Rupavahini

Corporation

5. Independent Television

Network

6. Associated Newspapers of

Ceylon Ltd.

7. Lanka Puwath Ltd.

8. Selacine Rupavahini Institute

9. Mahinda Rajapaksa National

Tele-cinema Park(Ranmihithenna)

10. Right to Information

Commission of Sri Lanka

11. All Information Technology

Parks

12. Information and

Communication TechnologyAgency

• Associated Newspapers of

Ceylon Ltd. (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 28 of1973

• Ceylon Broadcasting

Corporation Act, No. 37 of1966

• Newspapers Ordinance, No. 5

of 1839

• Sri Lanka Broadcasting

Corporation (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 8 of 1996

• Sri Lanka Press Council Law,

No. 5 of 1973

• Sri Lanka Rupavahini

Corporation Act, No. 6 of1982

• Right to Information Act,

No. 12 of 2016

• Information and

Communication TechnologyAct, No. 27 of 2003

• Electronic Transactions Act,

No. 19 of 2006

• All other legislations

pertaining to the subjectsspecified in Column I and II,and not specifically broughtunder the purview of any otherMinister.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.20188A

9. Implementation of international

agreements and conventionsrelating to publications

10. Sale, storage and dispatch of

Government publications, otherthan departmental publications

11. Take appropriate measures for

production and exhibition ofnews, films and documentaries

12. Broadcasting, including

commercial television, radiobroadcasting and overseastransmission

13. Assist in adopting appropriate

information technologicalsolutions for promotingproductivity and efficiency inthe delivery of services by thepublic sector

14. Implementation of programmes

for promotion of computerliteracy

15. Development of strategies to

encourage the use ofinformation and communicationtechnology

16. Matters relating to all other

subjects assigned to Institutionslisted in Column II

17. Supervision of the Institutions

listed in Column II

SCHEDULE (Contd.)

Column IColumn IIColumn III

Duties & FunctionsDepartments, StatutoryLaws to be ImplementedInstitutions & Public

Corporations

(3) State Minister of Mass Media & Digital Infrastructure (Contd.)

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.