==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2091$77 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks fikiqrdod - 2018'10'06No. 2091/77 - SATURDAY OCTOBER 06, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 3876 — 22 (10/2018)

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Central Provincial Road Passenger Carriage Services Statute No. 03 of 2018 of the Central Province ProvincialCouncil

THE proposed Statute No. 03 of 2018 of the Central Province Passenger Transport Services Authority which was presentedto the Hon. Central Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka was unanimously passedand obtained the approval from the Hon. Governor on 06.10.2018 and publish the aforesaid statute for the information ofevery one.

EDIRIWEERA WEERAWARDENA,Minister of Road Development,Transport, Power and Energy,and Housing and Construction,Central Province.P. O. Box 104,No. 109, Yatinuwera Street,Kandy.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.20182A

STATUTE OF CENTRAL PROVINCE

TRANSPORT SERVICES AUTHORITY

A Statute for cancellation of Road Passengers Transport Services Statute No. 4 of 1992 and No. 01 of2000 for the establishment of Central Province Road Passenger Transport Service Authority and mattersconnected with it and consequential to it for this management of it and fulfill the needs of managementand to transport goods and services along roads in the Central Province using motor vehicle within theCentral Province.

It is enacted as follows by the Central Province Provincial Council of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka.

1. This Statute will be known as Transport Services Authority Statute of Central Province No. 03 of2018 and will be in force with effect from the date on which authority is granted by the Governorof Central Province (hereinafter called as “Scheduled Date”)

PART I

Transport Services Authority of Central Province

2. Central Province Road Passenger Transport Services Statute No. 4 of 1992 and the CentralProvince Passenger Transport Service Authority Statute No. 01 of 2000 will be hereby rescinded.

3(1) A Central Province Transport Services Authority will be established hereinafter called as“Authority”.

(2) By the name given to the Authority under 3 (1) above it should be an incorporated instituteand it should have an uninterrupted life and a common seal and in the name of the Authorityit compile action and actions could be files against it.

4. (1) The Authority should consist of eleven members of whom five will be Ex: office memberswhile site members will be appointed as members.

All members of the Authority have to be appointed formally by a letter signed and issued bythe Minister. All such appointments should have been published in Government Gazette.

2.(i) A Five office members should be as follows :

(a) The Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject of Transport of theCentral Province or Senior Officer of executive level nominated by him;

(b) A senior officer if Provincial Treasury of executive level nominated by the ChiefMinister of Central Province Senior Deputy IGP of Central Province or;

(c) An officer not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police ;

(d) Commissioner of Local Government of Central Province or an AssistantCommissioner of Local Government nominated by him;

(e) Commissioner of Transport of Central Province or an Assistant Commissionerof this Department nominated by him;

Short Nameandthe Date ofOperation

Membersof theAuthority

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

(ii) “Appointment Members” should be as follows:

(a) Four persons who are qualified in one or more of the fields of Transport, Law,Management, Commercial Administration or Civil Engineering and wellexperienced and showing abilities in those subjects in such a manner, that theMinister in charge is satisfied,

(b) Two persons selected by the Minister at his discretion to represent goods orthose who transport passengers.

5.(1) Out of the members appointed by the Minister as above one member should be selectedas the Chairman of the Authority.

(2) The period of office of the Chairman is the period of his membership in the post of solong on the Ministry wants him to be the Chairman.

(3) He could not hold the office due to ill health going abroad or due to any other reason, theMinister will appoint another person to act for him.

(6) Implementation of the powers vested in the Authority this Statute is the responsibility of theChairman.

(7)(1) The post of the Chairman may terminate due to one or more of the following reasons:

(i) Become ineligible for the membership of the Authority due to one or more reasonsgiven below,

(ii) Registration from the post by a letter addressed to the minister under his signature,

(iii) Minister expels him giving reasons,

(iv) Due to Death.

(2) The Chairmanship lost in this manner will be held by the Secretary of the Ministry ofTransport until the Minister in charge of the subject appoints a permanent Chairman.

8.(1) Before the Minister appoints a person as a member of the Board of Directors, he shouldsatisfy himself whether that person will be able to discharge duties as a members of theBoard of Directors or whether he has any financial or other dealings which may haveadvise effect due to financial or any other dealings.

(2) When a member of the Board of Directors is appointed to that post, the Minister shouldfrom time to time, be satisfied that he had not any such connection.

(3) A person proposed by the Minister to be appointed as a member of the Board of Directorsof the Authority, is bonded to supply any information for the purpose of the Statute whenthe Ministry makes such a request.

(4) If any members of the Authority is directly or indirectly conected in some agreementwhich the Authority involved with, he should reveals the details of the matter to the Boardat one of its meetings. Such reveals should be recorded in the Ministers of the Meetings.Those members of the Board of Director should not participate in any such meetings ordiscussion regarding this matter.

Chairmanof theAuthority

Responsibilityof theChairman

Vacation ofthe post ofChairman

MembersFinancialConnection

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.20184A

9(1) The Chairman should take the chair in all meetings of the Directorate. In the absence of theChairman one of the member should be elected by the other members as a chairman, only forthat meeting.

(2) A member of the Board of Directors of the Authority should have six person for its quorum.

(3) All matters submitted by the Authority for its consideration should be decided at a meetingof the Authority and such matters should be approved by the majority of its members.

(4) If an election is held to decide some matter at a meeting of the Directorate if the membersof votes become equal. The Chairman should have the deciding vote in addition to theoriginal votes.

(5) If there is any defect in the selection or appointment of a members of the Directorate ata meeting of Directors, if it is revealed later that there was a mistake, all his actions at themeeting should be accepted and needed as valid.

(6) For the reason that there is a vacancy of a member, any action or any other thing done atthe meeting should not be treated as null and void.

(10) Such members appointed to the Authority as an ex: officer members should hold the membershipso long as he hold the post as an ex:- officer members, he could be appointed again after theexpiry of the period.

11.(1) Unless a member of the Board of Directors vacates his post due to death resignation orexpelled from the post, all members of the Board of Director should hold office for aperiod of 3 years and unless he is expelled due to some reason he/she will be eligible forre appointment.

(2) Ministry could terminate the duties of a member of the Board of Directors by giving reasons.

(3) If any member of the Board of Directors wants to resign his post at any time he can do so bysending a letter to the Minister and when the registration is accepted by the Minsters theresignation will be effective.

(4) When a post of member of the Board of Directors falls vacant and when the Ministerconsiders the Provision of the Statute to appoint him another person can be appointed onhis behalf and that new member can hold office for the balance period of the resignedmember.

12.If a person,

(1) is a Member of Parliament and members of some Provincial Council or a Local GovernmentInstitute,

(2) is not a citizen of Sri Lanka,

(3) had been decided by an accepted Medical Board that the person is at unsound mind or hasbeen fully incapacitated,

Meeting of theBoard ofDirectorsof the Authority

MembersAppointed byEx:- Officemembers

Provisionsfor Members

DisqualificationTo become amember

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

4. Is a person who has been declared as a person of insolvency by a Court of Law in Sri Lanka,or by any other country but not declared as fully cured.

5. Is a person convicted by laws for a criminal act or is already under going punishment.

6. Is a person convicted for bribery or is undergoing punishment for such an offence. Suchpersons ineligible to become a member of the Board of Management of the Authority orto continue as a member for a further period.

131. Members of the Authority could be paid only remuneration for attending meetings of theAuthority by inquiring from the Minister in charge of the subjects of Finance and asdirected by the Minister

2. Board of Directors should meet once a month according to the meetings of the Authorityand if necessary the Minister in charge of the subject or the Secretary of the Ministry incharge of the subject

141. Seal of the Authority should be as decided by the Authority

2. Seal of the Authority

a) Should be in charge of the Chairman of the Authority

b) The stamp should not be placed or any document other than on a attendance sheet ofmembers of the Authority in support of their attendance in the presence of twomembers.

PART II

Powers and activities belonging to the Authority

15 Powers and activities of the Authority should be a follows

(1)i. Fulfilling passengers requirements within the Province and formalizing andformalizing the transport services and issue a license, renewal, cancellation,extension of the period and transferring the ownership.

ii. Commending to the Minister standards required for the transport of passengers andgoods and the licensed of a motor vehicle used for the transport of passengers andgoods and if no other law has ordered the quality and futures of the vehicle, theMinister should recommended to the Minister the required standards necessaryfor passengers transport and the transport of goods.

iii. Under this Statute if a person who has obtained a license for passenger transport orfor the transport of goods is ordered to supply information or reports etc for somepurpose under this Statute or any other written law.

iv. Issued of a license for the transport of standards for a fee, benefit or a gift attendingschools, universities, technical colleges or equivalent institute within the Provinceproviding transport services at concessionary rates and enacting laws.

Remunerationfor AttendingMeetings

Meeting Countof Board ofDirectors

Seal

Powers for theTransport ofPassengers andgoods

Suitability ofvehicles used forthe transport ofpassengers andgoods

Powersand Activities

Supply ofinformation

Transport ofSchool Children

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.20186A

v. Formalizing transport services office employee and factory employees for a fee, benefitor a gift within the Province, and issued of license and enacting laws for the maintenanceof such services.

vi. Formalizing the transport of passengers and good by Trishaws with or without charginga fee within the Province on benefit maintenance of such transport services andissued of license and enacting laws.

vii.(a) Charging a service charge from vehicles which travel across Central provinceor in the Province from another province and engage in transport of passengersor goods even without a license but charging a fee, gift or benefit.

(b) When recommendations are requested regarding issue a licenses by theNational Transport Commission or by any other institutes issue of therecommendations as necessary and when busses are travelling without an entrypass or a license from this Authority, they should not be given an entry passand legal action should be taken against them.

viii. The Authority has the power to introduce new projects for the development ofpassengers transport services within Central Province and to improve the quality ofthe services and implement them and with the concurrence of the Minister in chargeof the subject and the Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject and to formsubcommittee, implement projects and control and to enact the necessary laws anddirections.

ix. Given an order to implement a formal time table for all two common transportservices within the province which should be committed integrated and which theAuthority deems suitable and order all transporters to strictly abide by the timetable and for those who contravene an on the spot service charges recovered withlegal actions.

x. Issue of license and other authorities papers, their renewal, amending and qrountingrights.

xi. Name board indicating the starting points and destinations of busses which carry alicense issued by the Authority which should be exhibited outside and inside of thebus and signs and lodes should be enforced according to existing policies andstandards of the government.

xii. Drivers, Conductors and vehicle assistants of Motor Vehicles which are engaged inthe transport of passengers and goods on a license or any other document of authorityissued by the Authority should be registered and should be issued withy identitycards and attending to the cancellation of registration a vehicle assistants and renewaland suspension.

xiii. Investigation, prevention and taking action against the violation of the provisions ofthis Statute regarding the transport of passengers and goods within the province anddeveloping flying scuds and their establishment directing to enforce their powersand activities.

xiv. Establishment hiring cars and transport vehicle halting places, their maintenancemanagement, development effecting changes and closing down, and legal acquisition,making used the vacant spaces and buildings.

Transport ofoffice employeesand factoryemployees

Transport ofpassengers bytrishaws orhiring vehicles

Inter provincialtransport services

Introduction ofnew projects

Ordering Timetable

Issue of License

Bus terminals andname boards

Registration ofDrivers andconductors

Urgent Inspectionteam and Goodstransportation

Car hire andcarriage of goodsand parkingstations

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

xv. Identification of other reads have laws part of passengers done along separate theirclassification and determining the type of busses and other vehicles suitable forsuch rounds in the province.

xvi. In order to fulfill the aims and objecting of Authority and subject to the provisionsof the constitution of Sri Lanka and in any other law enter into agreements orcontracts will be a person or any institute in Sri Lanka or abroad and work withother institutes to achieve its aims and objectives.

xvii. Maintenance motor vehicles garages to suitability of vehicles for the transport ofpassengers and goods.

xviii. Maintenance motor vehicles garages to suitability of vehicles for the transport ofpassengers and goods.

2. The Authority can execute the following powers.

i. In respect of bus Stands referred to in schedule 1. Bus halts along roads

ii. Management work of running busses, fixing time tables and their implementation fixing thestarting points of trips and developing the staff. The Authority has such work orderingtheir responsibility powers and activities giving orders regarding the duties of the staff ofthe Authority at these halting places.

iii. Administration and management of bus halts by the Authority in a for the Authority anddiscussion regarding outside powers being taken for transport work and taking decisionson such matters in a matter for the Authority.

3. Subject to the approval of the secretary in charge of the Ministry acquisition of movable orimmovable property to the work of the Authority or their disposed or is a matter for the Authority.

4. Implementations of the power of the Authority, its activities and work and getting others toimplement other powers which the Authority necessary.

PART III

Staff of the Authority

16 The Authority has the power to decide on the staff necessary for carrying out its duties and untila separate establishment code, Scheme of recruitment and financial regulations are approvedfor the Authority, all establishment work and financial administrations are done according tothe establishment code and F. R. of the Government and also under the rules and regulationsapplicable during the period, the Authority has been granted permission to act in terms of theabove code and FR.

Identification ofroads wherepassengerstransport servicescould bedeveloped andthe type ofvehicles suitablefor such roads

Agreements andContracts

Training ofDriversConductors andVehicle Assistant

Inspection ofsuitability ofmotor vehicles

Administration ofProvincial BusHalts.

acquisition ofmovable orimmovable

Staff

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.20188A

1. All appointment, promotions and educational and professional and other applications,wages and amounts salaries including the preparation of schemes of recruitment and therelevant institute for approval.

2. Conduct of disciplinary inquiries giving punishments and terminations of services andtheir abolition including disciplinary control general conduct leave, etc

3. Creation of staff development work necessary for the development of staff efficiencyand the related contribution.

4. Implementation of Employee’s provident fund,Employee’s trust fund, Gratuity allowancesand implementations of special allowance schemes under the formal authorization by theAuthority.

5. Implementations of welfare schemes for the staff of the Authority

6. All Officer staff including the General Manager, going through the performance reviewevery 2 years related their duties and decide about the future of the officer carrier basedon the results of performance review.

17. Any employee working against a disciplinary order can submit an appeal to the secretary of theministry in charge of the subject. The Secretary will appoint committee to inquire into it andhis decision is final.

18.1. The Authority has the power to recruit employees in terms of the provisions of pare 16above

2. The Authority has the power to recruit officers and employees as a contract basis orsecondman basis form the public service or provincial public service with the approval ofthe relevant authorities on or

3. When an officer or an employee of public service or provincial public service in recruits tothe staff of the Authority or he has to work according to the public management laws andregulations.

19. All members, officers and employees of the Authority will be treated as public servants forpurposes of penal code.

20. The Authority in a scheduled institute for purposes of the Bribery Act and its provisions will beapplicable to this.

21. A person who is qualified under the approved recruitment procedure can be formally appointedas the general manager of the Authority with the approval of the board of directors.

22.1. Subject to the common policy provisions of the Authority for operation of daily activitiesof the Authority, general disciplinary control of the employees of the Authority includingadministrative work will be to the general managers.

2. For the enhancement of Authority other powers and functions that may required fromtime to time may be given to the General Manager by the Chairman.

Appeal againstdisciplinary order

Recruitment ofemploymentand theirabsorption

Recruitment ofemploymentand theirabsorption

Is in a statuteof Bribery Act

GeneralManager

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

23.1. Supervision of controlling and deploying officers for reaching the objectives and for theenhancement of the Authority.

2. Having identified future transport requirements and also having identical new creativefields of transport field submission of proposals compliance to national policies andpreparation of relevant rules and regulations.

3. Protection of assets of the Authority and entering into agreements and maintenance of the

24. Out of the powers and activities cost on the General manager he can entrust and activities whichhe consider necessary to other staff officers.

PART IV

Permits for the transport of passengers and goods

25.1. No person should use a motor vehicle for the transport by passengers without a validregular passenger transport service permit or an equivalently license of Authority or somecharge or self or charging fares separately.

2. It is an offence under the Statute to transport passenger within the province having violatedthe provisions of sub section (1) above.

3. No person or institute should use a vehicle other than an approved vehicle on or after thedue date or by a regular passenger transport service permit or an equivalent documentscheduled date or thereafter under a regular transport service vehicle for transportingpassengers having charged a fee separately.

26. No motor vehicle should be used for a transport service within Central Province without apermit issued by the Authority by or under any other permit of Authority or a valid goods transportservice permit valid for the period on or after the date of validity of their

27. Any bus used for regular passenger transport should not be used with a special permit or anysuch authority obtained license on the due date or thereafter which is valid for the said periodshould not be used for any other service other than the regular service within the Province.

28.1. A person possessing a regular passenger transport service permit has the right to use amotor vehicle to maintained service as agreed to in the road or roads given in the permitin accordance with the conditions given in the regular passenger transport service permit.

2. A regular passenger transport service permit to any person who is not the registeredowner of the vehicle, should not be issued.

3. As indicated in sub section 25 (3) of their Statute vehicles other than busses which haveobtained a permit issued by the Authority for passenger transport provisions in the abovesub section will be equally applicable.

In this section ‘a Motor Vehicle” means a vehicle which is engaged in passenger transport.

Powers andResponsibilitiesof The GeneralManager .

GrantingPower by theGeneral Manager

PassengersTransportservicePermits forregular servicesand special.

Passengertransportfor transportof goods.

Specialpermits.

Regularservicepermitfor thetransportof passengers .

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201810A

29.1. Possessing a regular good transport license and agreed to this conditions stipulated withhave right to use a motor vehicle for the transport of goods.

2. A certain motor vehicle engaged in regular transport of goods will not be issue a regulargoods transport service permit to its necessary who is not a regular goods transport servicepermit holder.

In this section ‘a Motor Vehicle” means a vehicles like lorry trailers.

30. Every applicant who applies for a permit should send his application in the prescribed formunder the signature of the registered owner of the vehicle to the Authority.

(1) If the application is needed for a bus

i. Its registered number, numbered seats and internal height

ii. Place of origin of the road which is hoped to be used for the bus, in between importantbus halts, destinations route number and distance of the roads (roughly)

iii. As indicated under this Statute their implementation requested by the Authority toassured or reject the application and to exercise the discretion of the Authorityshould be sent by the applicant.

(2) If the applicant is relevant to use a motor vehicle for the transport of goods.

i. Its registered number, tare and weight of the maximum load

ii. If a trailer has been attached to the motor vehicle, registered number of the trailer,tare, maximum weight of the load

iii. For the approval or rejection of the permit as indicated in the application, otherparticulars asked for by the Authority should be supplied to than to exercise theirdiscretion.

31. The Authority reserves the right to permit or reject the of a permit, renewal of a permit given earlieramendment grating permission to transport the rights or rejection of such actions.

32. The Authority should not issue any permit under this Statute, unless the conditions andrequirements orders under in Statute unless the fee ordered to the paid is paid and the conditionsand requirements enforced are full filled.

33. In every passenger transport permit conditions and standards should be enacted to that securityof the public god will and convenience is ensured by enacting conditions and standards as decidedby the Authority subjects to be provisions of the Statute and orders included therein.

34. Subject to the provisions of the Statute and orders given under the same, in every item a goodsissued under the Statute and in every service permit should have public security, convenienceand safe by of goods under the conditions and statements enacted by the Authority and theycould be amended to suit the occasion.

Regularservicepermitfor thetransportof goods.

Applicationforpassenger orgoods transportservice.

Discretionregardingpermits.

Periodofvalidityof permits.

ConditionsTo beincludedIn passengerTransportPermit.

ConditionsTo beincludedIn goodsTransportPermit.

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

35. A passenger or goods transport service permit issued to a person under this Statute could be toanother party and such orders should be enacted through the Minister

36. In the case of holder of a permit wants get if renewed and submits an application to the Authority,the holder should prove that

1. He has acted according to provision of this Statute or orders made under at

2. If the Authority is satisfied that the holder of the permit has not been found guilty of anyoffence under the provisions of their Statute or found not guilty of some offence, he vanrenew that license for a period of one years from that date of expiry or for a period of notmore than a year as decided by the Authority.

37. A person holding a permit,

1. Has violate a provision of this permit or an order made under it

2. If it is in revealed to the Authority that in an application made to the Authority or a certainreport or some written information given to the Authority or a written explanation madeto the Authority or have submitted false or wrong information, the Authority will issuedan order to recover and amount equal to 3 times of the amount as a surcharge and asuspension order on the permit equivalent to 3 months or an order to cancel the permit.

3. Under this section if this Authority issues a suspension order or a cancellation order onthe permit holder, he should stop the transport service at once

38. By Institute,

1. If the Authority had rejected the award of a permit or renewing the permit or transportingit.

2. If a permit is cancelled or suspended or amended it or impose a surcharge or a decisionor an order is given on it, the said decision or an order is made, the applicant or the holderof a permit should be informed about it.

3. For the purposes of Sub sections (1) and (2) the date of sending the order or the decision byregistered post should be treated as the date of making that order or the decision. However,the date of implementation of the decision should be treated as three days after the date ofsending it by registered post.

4. If an applicant or a permit holder for permits is not satisfied with their decision or anorder given in (1) or (2) above, he can make an appeal he should, within 14 days of thereceipt of the decision or order, he can send written appeal against the decision or theorder to the secretary of the provincial ministry in charge of the subject.

5. Once the appeal forwarded in terms of Sub section (4) above in considered, the secretarywill

(i). Allow the appeal an order the Authority to renew or allow the award of the permit, or

(ii). Reject the appeal or

(iii). Can order to amend this permit or award the permit in terms of his order made by him

Transferof aPermit

Renewalof aPermit

CancellationorSuspendingof a permit

That therefuses forthe decisionof the courtsshould beinstitutedof the permit

Appeals

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201812A

6. That decision of the secretary should be intimated to the appellant or the Authority within14 days of the receipt of the appeal.

7. An appellant or permit holder who is not satisfied with the decision or an order given in Subsection (4) above can make a written appeal to the minister, within 14 days of the receipt ofthe decision or the order.

8. The minister having considered the appeal made to him, he will

(i). Having allowed the appeal will order the Authority to allow the award of the permit orto renew it or

(ii). To reject the appeal for

(iii). To amend the permit or to award in terms of his decision,

9. The minister’s decision on the appeal should be intimated without delay to the Authority,Secretary of the Ministry and the appellant.

39. No more vehicles should be allowed to enter a passenger terminal or a bus stop in the provincewithout a valid permit or any other permit accepted by the Authority and issued on the due dateor thereafter by the Authority.

PART V

The Authority should have an account belonging to it

40.1. The Authority should have an account belonging to it

2. The following monies should be credited to the account of the Authority.

(i). All monies allocated by the provincial council or by the Central government

(ii). Monies received by the Authority of assistance, gifts, awards or loans.

(iii). Monies received on behalf of various projects

(iv). If the implementations of the activities of the Provincial Authority stationary servicecharges received by the Authority and all monies received money or charges.

3. Maintenance of the account and its implementation should be subject to the provisions ofthis Statute and provisions of Chapter III of provincial councils act No. 42 of 1987 ofprovincial council fund.

41. General Manager responsible for the money received to an account of the Authority of theAuthority and for payments and general supervision.

42. Form the account of the Authority money can be spent as follows

1. Allowances of members of the Authority

2. Salaries remunerations and other allowances under formal approvals of officers andemployees of the Authority.

AccountOf theAuthority

Generalsupervisionof receipts and

Usageof fundsby the Authority

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

3. Department of funds on special projects in terms of 15 (VIII).

4. Department of funds for enterprise development activities.

5. Development of extra structure facilities.

6. Human Resources Development work done in consideration of financial situation of theAuthority.

7. Other activities decided by the Authority required for the fulfillment of powers, activitiesand responsibilities of the Authority under this Statute.

43.1. The Authority has the power to obtain loans for specific objectives with prior approval ofthe Provincial Ministry and the amount of the loan period of repayment loan control andconditions and instituted from which loans are to be obtained will be decided by theProvincial cabinet of Ministries.

2. Short team financial requirements needed by the Authority to perform, its responsibilitiescan be obtained by a draft or in any other manner with the approval of the Minister incharge of the subject and in terms of the orders on a temporary basis.

However the temporary loans obtained by the Authority under this section by means soulsexceed the amount decided by its Minister

44. Financial year of the Authority should be a Calendar Year

45.1. Income, expenditure, assets and liabilities of the Authority and all terminated transactionsof the Authority can be audited from time to time by the Audit Department of the Government;however necessary Central Province Director of auditor also can do its auditing.

2. Assets liabilities for each year should be submitted to the auditor general not later than 3months of the end of the financial year in the process of auditing services of a qualifiedaudit or auditing form can be obtained and they should act on his advice and control.

3. For the purposed auditing in order to settle the expenses of the auditor general an amountdecided by the Chairman or General Manager or an amount asked for by the Auditingsection could be paid from the funds of the Authority.

4. If there is a person assisting the auditor general in the process of auditing, he and theauditor general should be shown all books, deeds, agreements, vouchers and all otherdocuments which have a bearing on the auditing should be forwarded and all particularswhich you consider will be necessary for the auditing should be supplied to them by yourofficer.

5. Auditor for the purpose of activities referred to in the section is,

(i). A person possessing a certificate from the chartered auditors institute of Sri Lanka or anyother equal institute or a member of an institute which has been accepted by law or a personappointed by the board of control of that institute.

Obtain loanby theAuthority.

Financialyear.

Auditingof financeof the auditory

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201814A

(ii). A term of auditing with show holders of an institute naming membership of Charteredaccountants Institute of Sri Lanka or any other equal institute an institute established bylaw.

46.1. Auditor general having inspected the accounts of the authority,

(i). Stating that all the documents required by him were forwarded or not,

(ii). To show the work of the Authority is strength and reasonable,

(iii). He can according to his opinion submit a report saying that the Provincial Councilshould take some interest in conducting an inquiry regarding the accounts of theAuthority or any other matter pertaining to accounts.

2. Auditor General will send his report to the Secretary of the ministry with accounts auditedby him.

3. of transport and he should take action to their copies within four months after the end of therelevant financial year to the Provincial Council.

47. On receipt of the audit report containing assets and liabilities, of the account for each year, theSecretary will send the report accounts audited regarding assets and liabilities and the statementof the Authority regarding annual activities of the Authority to the Minister in charge of thesubject. The Subject of a Transport and he should take action to send their copies within dourmonths after the end of the relevant financial year to the Provincial Council.

PART VI

General Provision

48.1. The Minister can issue general or special provisions to the Authority regarding theimplementations of its powers and the Authority should impotent those provision.

2. The Minister can order the Authority to submit from time to time term reports, accounts andother information regarding the activities of the Authority in a formal ordered by him andthe Authority should fulfill all general recruits.

49. A person who has been authorized by the Authority or possesses some authority can at any timewithin the Central Province at any place,

1. Can enter a motor vehicle which is transporting goods or passengers and check whether ithas got the authority from neither the Statute nor any other institute and whether thevehicle possessed the relevant conditions or the driver conductor or vehicle assistantpossesses them, or whether they have followed in orders of this Statute or regulations.

2. (i) Can order the driver of the vehicle, conductor or vehicle assistant or the person in charge or

(ii). He can take charge the license or other documents or its copies when a document likethat is taken, you should give a receipt.

AuditorGeneral’sReport.

Submission ofreports ofaccounts andannual reports tothe Minister.

Powerto theMinister.

Gettingintothevehicleand inspection.

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

3. You can inspect the driving license issued by the Department of Motor Traffic the annualrevenue license or any other relevant documents.

50 (1) (i). All actions done by the Authority in good faith under their Statute or

(ii). Under this Statute some members officer or a servant of the Authority does someaction on its order of the Authority in good faith or does not do something necessary,no civil or criminal action could be taken against of such member, officer or servant

2. In a civil or criminal case against the authority any expenses incurred by the Authority could bepaid from the funds of the Authority, in a civil or criminal case, any expenses or compensationrecovered by the Authority should be credited to the fund of the Authority. If the officer ispersonally responsible for the, the board of directors in responsible for taking a decision onthe matter.

51(1) (1). Some officer who is authorized by the Authority or the authority given by a license underthis Statute, a motor vehicle transporting passengers or goods if any of the provisionsgiven in the Statute, has been breached and if the breach is liable to be charged with alocal service charge and if there is a person who takes its responsibility of his own freewill, instead of filing action against him, it is possible to him with the management servicecharge instead of filing action against him. An authorized officer or any other suitableofficer should inform the authority giving the route with the members of motor vehicles.

(2). Such a local service charge having been paid to the authority or a sub office of the Authorityto be credited to the fund of the authority as evidence within two weeks of finding thefault of the relevant receipt should be forwarded to the authority.

52. The Authority can issue recommendations to facilitate purchase of buses and in terms of theGovernment policy solely for the benefit of the transport service.

53.1. The ministers can make orders for the implementations of the recommendations of thisStatute and give effect to them.

2. Without prejudice to the powers offered by the above sub section no. (01) Above theministers can make orders to each matter together or separately:

(i). Matter for which authority is given to make orders under this Statute.

(ii). use of permits and other authority’s permits, renewal amending, granting rights andafflicted matters thereto procedure to be followed and the forms to be used anddeciding on the charges,

(iii). According to the suitability and usage of roads transport of passage and transport ofgoods and deciding on the type of motor vehicles to be used in those roads andprocedure to be followed in the use of motor vehicle on those roads.

(iv). In a vehicle used under the authority of a license, the documents to be carried by thedriver conductor vehicle assistant or the person in charge of the vehicle andparticulars to be and should be included in them.

Protectionfrombeingfilingaction.

LocalServiceCharges.

Recommendingfor thepurchase ofbuses.

MakingCommandunderstatute.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201816A

(v.) Reports to be kept regarding the number of trips done by the buses under a permanentpassenger transport service license.

(vi). Standards to be followed by a person who is using a vehicle under the power oflicense.

(vii). Records to be kept by license holders who start the service and terminate the serviceincluding the interval taken by those drivers, conductors and vehicle assistants inbuses by those who use regular passenger and goods transport licenses.

(viii). The reports kept in this manner should be kept safely and a person authorized by theAuthority should inspect them and person who was should forward them forinspection.

(ix). Registration renewal of registration cancellation and suspension of driver’sconductors and vehicle assistants who are engaged in passenger transport and goodstransport under the authority of license have to prepare the procedure.

(x). Under the authority of permits, the drivers and conductors regular passenger transportservice who should wear the uniforms and medals should be order to do so along withthe disciplinary matters that they should follow whilst on passenger transport duty .

(xi). Regarding the management of buses while they are parked at parking places especiallywhen they are coordinated and time keeping of buses is in progress.

(xii). School vans, trishaws and hiring vehicles under a passenger transport license or anyother authority within the province which are not covered by any other law should bedecided, proved and amended.

(xiii). Volumes of drivers and conductors issued in use of regular passenger and goodstransport services and special passenger Transport permit minimum eligibility criteriaand their physical and mental fitness has been periodically tested.

(xiv). Procedure to be followed by buses which possess inter provincial license and areengaged in transporting passengers the procedure that should be followed by them.Bus fares have to be decided and regulations should be enacted.

3. All orders made under section (I) should be prohibited in the gazette and they will beeffective W. E. F. the date of the order or W. E. F. some other date given in the order.

4. All orders made under sub section (I) should be submitted to the provincial council forapproval within one month of their publication and if there are orders which have not beenapproved, it should be treated as cancelled without harming any act done under into.

5. If there is any order which has been rescinded, it should be published in the gazette againalong with the date.

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

PART VII

Offences and penalties

54 (1)(i). A passenger travelling in a bus with a valid ticket is used offensive or insulting words in anugly and impulsive manner in words or signals the driver or conductor of the bus whoresort to that type of behavior.

(ii). A bus which is used for transporting passengers has electrical gadgets which and disturbingsounds, in excess of the approved level; a person possessing a ticket driver or conductor

(iii). Without registering in the authority as a driver, conductor or an assistant or even when hisregistration has been cancelled any person engaged in the transport, passengers or goods.

(iv). A ticket issued with the permission of the Authority or under it is being used fraudulentlyor get another person to use it

(b) A similar ticket fraudulently imitated or changing its nature, distorted or ruin

(c) A ticket like that selling without permission of the authority, supplying distributing orforwarding for sale

(d) Supposed to have printed such a ticket or printing a used ticket.

(e) A person transporting passengers without issuing a ticket or without the permissionof the authority or a without issuing a valid ticket.

(v). A person purposely displaying notices at a bus halt belonging to the authority or a buildingsituated at another place or a passengers shed or displaying notices pasting notices orwriting characters, words or drawing pictures or pasting photographs or other symbolsand displaying notices or purposely making them dirty

Will be guilty of an offence under this Statute and when a case in filed against him in a magistrate’scourts and informed guilty he will fine not less than Rs. 20,000 or equivalent and six monthsimprisonments or both.

Hence if it has paid a local services fee ordered by the authority, he will not be subject to theprovision of the above section.

(2).If in a bus for which the authority has issued a passenger transport service license or underany other authority a bus which in employed in transporting passengers.

(i). If travelling is a bus without a license issued by the authority or by any other institutea ticket or any other authority.

(ii). If the ticket issued for the journey is not retained by him till the end of the journey or

Offence

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201818A

(iii) A passenger who refuses to submit the ticket when demanded or refuses to hand itover any authorized person asks for it and refuses to hand over or to be show itwhen demanded

he will be guilty under this Statute and after a simple hearing and informed guilty bya magistrate he will have to pay a penalty of not less than Rs. 10,000 and 3 monthsimprisonment or both.

However he pays a service charge ordered by the authority the provisions the abovesection will not apply to him.

3. If a person travels by a transport service, in a bus with a ticket issued by the Authority orbuy any other institute.

(i). If he reject to pay the fare due from him.

(ii). When he arrives at the destination, if he refuses to set down from the bus or neglectsit

(iii). If he uses a language of insult and indecent and provocative language or uses indecentsigns or conduct he will be guilty of an offence under this authority and if he will beat a magistrate courser and found guilty he will be subject to an offence punishablewith not less than Rs. 10,000 after a simple trial or 3 months in or both in one of thetwo ways.

However it has paid a simple service charge the provisions of the above section will notapply to him.

4. Any person who commits an offence punishable under (1), (2) and (3) of this chaptercould be taken into legal custody by any police officer and the person who was taken intocustody should be produced before a magistrate in order rake legal action.

55. Any person who submits a false or wrong report or a written information or written explanationwill be found guilty under this Statute and at simple trial before a magistrate if found guilty, hewill be subject to a fine of not less than Rs. 10,000/- or 3 months in one of two ways or both.

56.1. It is a punishable offence to take passengers from bus halts without approved shouting atthe top of the voice to collect passengers and acting in a manner that obstructing theduties of officers of the authority. On such occasion police officers or officers of theauthority can offer a simple trial before a magistrate if found guilty he will have to pay afine not less than Rs. 10,000 or 3 months in two ways or both

2. Transport of passengers should not be done without a license issued by the Authority anddoing such an act is a punishable offence under Statute. On such an occasion police officersor officers of the authority can file action against them in a magistrate count.

3.(i) Without the a license issued by the authority, employees should not be transportedto schools, factories or places of work, it in a punishable offence under this Statute.In such an instance, the police or the officer of the Authority can take legal actionagainst such persons an if field action in a magistrate council and in simple trialbefore magistrate, if found guilty he in liable to pay a fine of not less than Rs. 10,000/- or 3 months imprisonment or both imprisonment and fine.

TakingInto custody aGuiltyperson

Submissionof wrong report

BusHaltingPlaces

DrivingWithoutALicense

Other commonpassengertransport

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

(ii) Without a valid license form the Authority, passenger should not be transport inthree wheels and it is a punishable offence under this statute. In such an instance thepolice or officer of the Authority can take legal action against them in relevantcourt of law and if found is liable to pay affine of not les than Rs. 10,000/- and 3months imprisonment in one of the two ways or both way and imprisonment

4. Without a license from the Authority, transport of goods is a punishable offence. In suchan instance the police or the officer of the Authority can take legal action against the suchpersons and file action in a magistrate court and after simple hearing of the case, if foundguilty, he is liable to pay a fine of not less than Rs. 10,000/- and 3 months imprisonmentin one of the two ways and both fine and imprisonment

57. When the Authority is implementing the authority given under the Statute performing the tasksand activities entrusted to it and when an officer authorized by the Authority is performing suchtasks and activities a person obstructing, interfering or working against such action, or showingresistance or trying to do so will be an office under this Statute and if taken before a magistrateand file action and in a simple hearing before a magistrate if found guilty will be liable to paya time of not less that Rs. 50,000 or not less than one years imprisonment in any of the two waysand both time and imprisonment.

58. If any person violates any orders some command or an order given under the 01 act incontravention of orders is committing an offence under this Statute and when the said offenceis not treated as a special penalty by this Statute if action in a court of law before a magistrate,if found guilty, he is liable to pay a fine of not less than Rs. 10,000 or 3 months imprisonment.

59. If an officer employee is granted permission by the Authority to legal action regarding the offencesunder this Statute by a written document, should be treated as public officer under chapter 136 ofcriminal procedure code No. 15 of 1979.

PART VIII

Removal and interim provision

60. Unless the ministry decide otherwise the orders and regulations made under road passengertransport service chapter No. 04 of 1992 and the central province passenger transport serviceauthority Statute No. 01 of 2000 are not contrary to provisions of this Statute, valid orders andregulations will be in force until regulations will be in force until regulations are enacted underthis Statute.

61. However until the minister appoints member of the Authority under section 04 of this Statute.All members of the Central Province Passenger Transport Service Authority No. 01 of 2000holding membership until the day prior to the implementation of this chapter should be treatedas members appointed under this chapter.

62.1. All officers and other employees who were in employment before the date prior to thescheduled under central province passenger transport service authority Statute and officeremployees who are employed under orders and conditions which are not lower than theorders and conditions that they are enjoy should be treated as employees of the authority.The service of those employees should not be terminated in any manner other than underlegal reason.

Transport ofgoods

ObstructingTheAuthorityor usingforce

GeneralPenalties

GrantingAuthority toFile action

Regulations(Orders)Under removedStatute

EmployeesoftheAuthority

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201820A

2. On the day prior to the scheduled date, the said authority established under central provincepassenger transport service authority Statute inclusive of its all funds inclusive of its allfunds including its movable and immovable property should be treated as the property ofthe Authority and property should be the property of the Authority.

3. On the day prior to the scheduled date, central province passenger transport serviceauthority established under central province passenger transport service authority No. 01of 2000, all obligations and responsibilities regarding employees provident fundemployees trust fund and gratitude including all contracts and agreements should be treatedas contracts and agreement of the authority.

4. On the day prior to the schedules date central province passenger transport service authorityNo. 01 of 2000 has filed some cases in a court of law or a tribunal and a case, request oran appeal have been filed against the Authority it should be treated as a case, request or anappeal against the authority and they can be maintained or terminated.

5. On the day prior to the scheduled date in a case or an appeal made by or filed against thecentral province passenger transport services authority established under central provincepassenger transport service chapter No. 01 of 2000 as reported by a court of law ortribunal authority or awarded by and on the day prior to the scheduled date if not complexlyor penalty furnished and if a verdict is awaited which has been given for an against theauthority, is should be treated as a verdict reported or awarded, it should be treated as averdict or award given in terms of the civil procedure code or verdict or award givenunder any other Statute.

6. Under the provisions of the central province road passenger transport service chapterNo. 4 of 1992 or central province passenger transport service authority chapter No. 01 of2000 or treated as a passenger transport service license, a day prior to the effecting thischapter a passenger transport service license or any other document issued under thisStatute, earlier but not cancelled should be treated as a passenger transport service licenseduring the period of its validity.

63. If there is a difference in meaning of these Sinhala Tamil and English versions of this document,the Sinhala document prevails.

64. Unless it is required to have another meaning in the context of this document.

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of Transport services of the cabinet of ministers ofthe Central Provincial Council

“Cabinet” means the Cabinet of Ministers of the Central Provincial Council

“Province” means the Central Province

“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council.

“Officer” means all employess serving in the Authority including members of the Board ofDirectors of Central Province Transport Services Authority.

“A senior officer” means an officer of not less than Grade II of Sri Lanka AdministrativeService or a post in Parallel Service

ProvisionsFor allAgreementsRights obligationsresponsibilitiesand cases filedand existing

Interpretation

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

“Permit” means Passenger Service Permit goods service permit special service permitpassenger transport service permit road permit permanent transport service permitschool services permit factory transport services permit means a permit issued givingauthority for the transport of passengers or goods under any name or this chapter orunder any other written laws. Charging a fare, gift, benefit or separate charges used intransporting people or goods giving the necessary authority.

“Transport services” mean any vehicle transporting people or goods

“Bus halt” means passenger terminals situated in Province and it also include bus haltingplaces within Central Province Gazette under No. 1169 and bus halts within CentralProvince belonging to the Authority and places along the roads where buses are stopped.

“Gazette” means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

“Local Government Institute” means a Municipal Council Urban Council, Town Council orPradeshiya Sabawa.

“Bus and Omni bus” means a motor coach registered as a bus ion the Motor Vehicle Act andit also includes a dual purpose vehicle.

“Passenger means” a person travelling in a hiring vehicle, a bus school service bus or a van,factory bus or a van but if a driver or bus conductor or vehicle assistant are not includedin this category.

“Separate fares” means fare paid by a person who is entitled to be taken in a bus

“Motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle interpreted in the motor vehicle transport act

Motor coach is a motor vehicle as interpreted in the motor vehicles transport act

Lorry is a motor vehicle interpreted in the motor vehicle transport act

“Trailers” means is a trailer interpreted in the motor vehicle transport act

“Hire” means a vehicle given on hire to people having parking than on therefore or any otherplace

“Passenger transport service” means all vehicles carrying people, school children and officeand other passengers charging a fee.

“Formal scheme” means the scheme of recruitment approved by the Government ManagerService Department.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201822A

Kandy District SerialBus StandArea NoARp

1Bogambara Bus stand

2Deltota Bus Stand0217.06

3Ampitiya Bus Stand0024.27

4Nawalapitiya Bus Stand0227.81

5Thalatuoya Bus Stand 117.34

6Ankumbura Bus Stand0017.68

7Panvila Bus Stand016.93

8Gelioya Bus Stand0312.76

9Weligalle Bus Stand0021.51

10Gampola Bus Stand0227.77

11Good shead main Bus Stand2 31.45

12Pottapitiya Bus Stand0036.13

13Good shead Private Bus Stand0029.22

14Wattegama Bus Stand0224.02

15Penideniya Bus Stand004.03

16Kadugannawa Bus Stand0126.5

17Haragama Bus Stand0122.59

18Karalliyadda Bus Stand024.45

19Digana Bus Stand2225.13

20Clock Tower Bus Stand0236.95

21Torington Bus Stand 14.1

22Peradiniya Bus Stand0029.24

23Mahakandha Bus Stand004.78

24Katugastota Bus Stand

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.2018

25Bokkawala Bus Stand 15.7

26Menikhinna Bus Stand0028.07

27Alawathugoda Bus Stand007.98

28Polgolla Bus Stand0010.6

29Hasalaka Bus Stand0221.05

30Ganhatha Bus Stand0017.16

31Pussellawa Bus Stand 18.78

32Galagedara Bus Stand017.57

33Medawala Bus Stand0026.73

34Amunugama Bus Stand0026.73

Nuwara Eliya District

SerialBus StandArea NoARp

1Maskeliya Bus stand0119.82

2Samimale Bus stand0029.89

3Thalawakele Bus stand0134.6

4Dayagama Bus stand011.07

5Hatton Bus stand

6Nildhandahinna Bus stand0218.96

7Nuwaraeliya Bus stand127.33

8Hanguranketha Bus stand0213.55

9Walapane Bus stand0320.03

10Ragala Bus stand

Kandy District SerialBus StandArea NoARp

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'06PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -06.10.201824A

11Nallathanniya Bus stand

12Pundaluoya Bus stand0013.48

13Ginigathhena Bus stand0031.94

14Kotmale Bus stand0215.36

15Nuwaraeliya Private Bus stand01-

Matale Disrict

SerialBus StandArea NoARp

1Naula Bus stand036.4

2King Street Bus stand012.86

3Hettipola Bus stand1023.69

4Rattota Bus stand

5Gongawela Bus stand034.62

6Nugasewana Bus stand0113.8

7Dambulla Bus stand2233.68

8Galewela Bus stand---

9Laggala Bus stand---

10Hettipola Bus stand--23.69

Nuwara Eliya Disrict

SerialBus StandArea NoARp

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.