==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'11'28

Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2025 1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hw;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Proclamations & c., by the President

wxl 2464$29 – 2025 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'11'28 No. 2464/29 – FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 2025

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A – G045825 – 358 (11/2025)

ORDER BY THE Hඈඇ. PRESIDENT

Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979 Aඇඎඋൺ Kඎආൺඋൺ Dංඌඌൺඇൺඒൺ඄ൾ

By virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 2 of the Essential Public Services Act, No. 61 of 1979, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do by this Order, considering it necessary that the services provided by any Public Corporation or Government Department or Local Authority or Co-operative Society or any branch thereof being a Department or Corporation or Local Authority or Cooperative Society, which is engaged in provision of the services speciﬁ ed in the Schedule hereto, is essential to the life of the community and is likely to be impeded or interrupted due to the severe adverse weather condition currently prevailing, declare the services speciﬁ ed in the Schedule hereto to be an essential public service for the purposes of the aforesaid Section.

Given on the 28th day of November, Two Thousand and Twenty Five. By Order of the Hon. President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake,Secretary to the President.

Seal

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'11'28

Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2025 2A

SCHEDULE

1. All services connected to the supply of electricity2. The supply or distribution of fuel, including petroleum products and gas3. All service, work or labour, of any description whatsoever, necessary or required to be done in connection with the maintenance, and the reception, care feeding and treatment, of patients in hospitals, nursing homes, dispensaries, and other similar institution4. Public transport services for the transportation of passengers or goods5. The Facilitation and maintenance of transportation services and tourism services by road, rail, or air, including highways, bridges, culverts, airports, ports, and railways6. All services connected to the supply of water and drainage7. All services connected with the supply, safeguard, and distribution of food and essential commodities8. All type of services, works, or labour contributions which should be carried out or required to be carried out by District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats, Grama Niladharis, Samurdhi Development Oﬃ cers, Agricultural Research Assistants, Community Empowerment Oﬃ cers, Oﬃ cers of the Clean Sri Lanka Centralized Team, including all ﬁ eld level oﬃ cers of all District and Divisional Secretariats.9. Ambulance services10. All state banking and insurance services including the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.11. Any services carried out by any Local Authorities for the supply of water, electricity, drainage and sewerage systems, ﬁ re-ﬁ ghting and ambulance services, scavenging and the removal of garbage (including the carriage and disposal of feces), and all services carried out by Local Authorities12. All services connected to the irrigation13. All services connected to the telephone, telecommunication, and media14. All services connected to the reclamation and development of low-lying lands15. All services connected to the agriculture and agricultural insurance services

EOG - 11- 0208

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.