==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

අංංක 2469/08 - 2025 දෙෙසැැම්බර් 30 වැැනි අඟහරුවාාදාා - 2025.12.30No. 2469/08 - TUESDAY, DECEMBER 30, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

1A - PG 7440 - 358 (12/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

BY HON. ANURA KUMARA DISSANAYAKE

THE PRESIDENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

To:

1. Piyasena Ranasinghe Esquire, Attorney-at-Law

Former Judge of the High Court

2. E.R.M.S.H. Ekanayake Esquire

Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service – Grade I

3. D.S. Wikramasinghe Esquire

Former Senior Superintendent of Police

SealAnura Kumara Dissanayake.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.20252A

Greetings!

Whereas, over the past several decades, numerous complaints and allegations have been made pertaining to acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property, deception, and the misuse or abuse of power, authority, public resources, and privileges, against persons who have held or continue to hold political office, as well as against persons who have served or continue to serve as public officers and officers of statutory bodies, and persons engaged in the provision of goods and services, in connection with all properties, including lands and buildings, belonging to the Colombo Municipal Council, and further, in connection with supplies, services, projects and various development activities undertaken by the said Municipal Council.

And whereas, as a consequence of the aforesaid alleged acts of fraud and corruption, substantial losses and damage have been incurred to the state assets and revenue, and the Colombo Municipal Council have been unable to achieve their intended development objectives,

And whereas, it is necessary to inquire into and investigate the said complaints, allegations, and information, for the purpose of ascertaining the truth thereof,

And whereas, it is necessary to identify, if any, the individuals or institutions responsible for the aforesaid acts,

And whereas, I am of the opinion that it is essential for the public interest to determine the measures to be taken to ensure that such acts do not recur,

And Whereas, I am of the view that a Commission of Inquiry should be appointed to inquire into and investigate the aforesaid offences and acts of wrongdoing, and to report thereon or take such measures as may be necessary,

Now therefore, I, Anura Kumara Dissanayake, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability, and fidelity do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act No. 17 of 1948 (Chapter 393) as amended, by these presents appoint you, the said,

1. Piyasena Ranasinghe Esquire, Attorney-at-Law Former Judge of the High Court 2. E.R.M.S.H. Ekanayake Esquire Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service - Grade I3. D.S. Wikramasinghe Esquire Former Senior Superintendent of Police

To be my Commissioners, to investigate, inquire into, and report on the following matters, namely;

1. Call for and receive public complaints, information and other materials pertaining to serious allegations against persons who have held or continue to hold political office, as well as against persons who have served or continue to serve as public officers and officers of statutory bodies, and persons engaged in the provision of goods and services, in connection with the acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property, deception, and the misuse or abuse of power, authority, state resources and privileges; unlawful recruitments and appointments; illegal plans; breach of the provisions stipulated in the Procurement Guidelines; irregularities committed in the leasing or renting of movable or immovable property; and any litigation, mediation or arbitration, extraneous to the due process of law, as well as the resulting serious loss or damage caused to state assets and revenue as a consequence of such offences and acts of wrongdoing, which are alleged to have occurred in the Colombo Municipal Council during the period from 2010 to 2025. Call for and receive public complaints, information and other materials pertaining to an offence or offences, which are not covered by the above time period or extraneous to the aforementioned acts, which are yet deemed as of serious nature by the Commission of Inquiry in the course of carrying out this task. 2. Conduct prompt, impartial, and comprehensive investigations and inquiries into the complaints, information, and allegations referred to in paragraph 1 above.

3. Identify the persons or institutions responsible in accordance with the law, for the commission of such offences, acts of wrongdoing, or for the misuse or abuse of power, authority, state resources, or privileges.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'12'30Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.12.2025

3A

4. Identify and gather all such evidence as may be available against the persons or institutions responsible for the commission of the offences and acts of wrongdoing referred to in paragraph 1 above, and in relation to any such incidents and offences connected therewith. 5. Determine which of the acts referred to in paragraph 1 above should be referred to Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption or the Police, or any other law enforcement authority or statutory body, for the purpose of conducting the necessary investigations and inquiries against the persons or institutions alleged to have committed the aforesaid offences. 6. Submit all evidence obtained during investigations and inquiries to the Attorney General, enabling him to consider the initiation of criminal proceedings against the persons or institutions alleged to have committed the aforesaid offences and to institute prosecution against the accused. 7. Present to me, the recommendations of the Commission regarding any measures to be taken against the persons or institutions responsible for the commission of offences and acts of wrongdoing, and the recommendations aimed at preventing the recurrence of such offences and acts of wrongdoing in the future.

And, I do hereby appoint you, Piyasena Ranasinghe Esquire, Attorney-at-Law, Former Judge of the High Court to be the Chairman of the said Commission.

And, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to conduct or cause to effect criminal or forensic investigations and to hold all such public and /or confidential investigations or inquiries, into the aforesaid matters as may appear necessary, and direct you to submit to me, under your hand, the first interim report within three (03) months from the date of this warrant and thereafter an interim report every month (01 month) and the final report containing the conclusions of your inquiries and investigations, and your recommendations relating thereto, within six (06) months from the date hereof.

Furthermore, I do hereby direct that, should you, in your discretion, determine that any part of the investigation relating to the aforesaid matters ought not to be conducted in public; such part shall not be conducted in public.

And, I do hereby require and direct all public officers, officers of statutory bodies and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or information for the purposes of your investigations and inquiries, to duly render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may properly be rendered and furnished, in that behalf.

And, I do hereby declare that the provisions stipulated in Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act, shall apply in respect of this Commission.

Given at Colombo under the Seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 30 day of December, Two Thousand and Twenty Five.

By Order of the Honorable President,

Dr. N. S. Kumanayake, Secretary to the President.

EOG 12 - 0264

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.