==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

1A - PG 7510 - 04 (02/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA

Direction issued under Section 18 (9) (a) of Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 for Implementation of the recommendations of the report of the Public Hearing held in regard to the Total System Failure occurred in the Transmission Licensee’s (Ceylon Electricity Board) Network on 09th February 2025.

THE Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka hereby issue a direction to the Electricity Generation Licensee of Ceylon Electricity Board operating under Licence No. EL/GB/25/01, the Transmission and Bulk Supply Licensee of Ceylon Electricity Board operating under Licence No. EL/T/25/02, Electricity Distribution and Supply Licensees of Ceylon Electricity Board operating under Licence Nos. EL/D/25/03, EL/D/25/04, EL/D/25/05, EL/D/25/06 and the Electricity Distribution and Supply Licensee of Lanka Electricity Company (Pvt) Ltd operating under Licence No. EL/D/16-004, to implement the following recommendations made in the report of the Public Hearing held on 05th August 2025 at BMICH, in regard to the Total System Failure occurred in the Transmission Licensee’s (Ceylon Electricity Board) network on 09th February 2025.

1. Rooftop Solar Inverter Compliance and Grid Support – Applicable for Distribution Licensees

a) Implement a routine inspection and verification mechanism by Distribution Licensees to ensure rooftop solar inverters are configured with prescribed technical and regulatory standards including Low Voltage Ride Through (LVRT), High Voltage Ride Through (HVRT) and frequency ride-through settings.

b) Establish a structured replacement and upgrade policy to ensure that newly replaced or upgraded inverter models comply with the updated technical requirements, including LVRT, HVRT, frequency ride-through, and reactive power support capabilities.

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙˤෂ

අංංක 2474$17 - 2026 පෙෙබරවාාරි මස 02 වැැනි සඳුදාා - 2026'02'02No. 2474/17 - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 02, 2026

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.20262A

c) Periodically assess grid stability requirements against the actual capabilities of installed inverters.

d) Develop and maintain a centralized, updated digital database of inverter types, firmware versions, ride-through capabilities, and certification status, accessible for planning, system studies, and post event analysis.

2. Enhancement of Primary Frequency Response and System Stability - Applicable for Generation Licensee

a) Undertake Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) controller tuning of governors at Victoria Power Station and other frequency-controlling machines to achieve faster primary frequency response.

b) Further investigate and implement improvements to frequency response characteristics of other synchronous generators, particularly those mostly scheduled to operate during low load and high renewable penetration periods.

c) Review and optimize spinning reserve policies, considering actual system inertia and renewable penetration levels.

3. Improving Auxiliary Power and Communication Reliability at Lakvijaya Power Station - Applicable for Generation Licensee

a) Implement a reliable and independent auxiliary power supply arrangement at Lakvijaya Power Station to enable safe and timely shutdown of generating units without reliance on restoration process.

b) Implement fast and reliable communication mechanisms between Lakvijaya Power Station and the System Control Centre to ensure that system operators are immediately informed regarding the auxiliary power requirement for the safe shutdown of LVPS generation units, thereby avoiding delays and operational uncertainty during system restoration processes.

4. Adaptive Load Shedding and Improved Under Frequency Load Shedding (UFLS) Performance - Applicable for Transmission Licensee

a) Develop and implement an Adaptive Load Shedding (ALS) scheme, capable of responding dynamically to system conditions considering the embedded generation and unseen demand.

b) Update UFLS relays to detect power flow direction to ensure correct operation under high embedded generation scenarios.

5. Deployment of Digital Disturbance Recorders - Applicable for Transmission Licensee

a) Install Digital Disturbance Recorders (DDRs) at critical power stations, especially those designated as frequency-controlling units.

b) Revisit the criteria for selection of the location for Installation of DDRs.

6. Protection Relay Testing and Asset Planning - Applicable for Transmission Licensee

a) Review and standardize relay testing procedures and testing intervals for protection relays at Grid Substations (GSS).

b) Ensure all protection relays are identified and included under the GSS rehabilitation and replacement plans.

7. Power System Restoration Readiness - Applicable for Transmission Licensee

a) Update the Restoration Manual incorporating the lessons learned, successful procedures, and effective actions observed during the February 2025 restoration.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'02'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.02.2026

3A

b) Review the requirement of revising the Restoration Manual periodically without waiting for two- year cycle, or immediately following a total failure.

c) Establish real-time monitoring, communication, and control capabilities to enhance the visibility and controllability of large rooftop (RT) solar PV schemes, with specific focus on their readiness to support power system restoration.

d) Provide a training for Control Room Operators (CROs) at grid substations on the standing instructions to be followed during a total failure.

e) Simplify the Standing Instructions for CROs by extracting the relevant instructions from the “Sri Lankan Power System Restoration Procedure After a Total Failure”, presenting them in a concise and easy-to-understand Format in all three languages, and distribute them to all Grid Substations (GSSs) to improve the awareness in order to ensure the compliance during system restoration in total failure events.

By Order of the Commission, Prof. Lalith Chandralal Chairman, Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka. EOG 02 - 0014

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.