w;s úfYI

wxl 2375$21 - 2024 ud¾;= ui 12 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024'03'12No. 2375/21 - tuesday, March 12, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - PG 6671- 604 (03/2024) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996

Fisheries Development and Management Plan of the Chilaw Lagoon Management Area made under Subsection (4) of Section 31B of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996

Douglas Devananda, Minister of Fisheries.

Colombo,12th March, 2024.

Fisheries Development and Management Plan of the Chilaw Lagoon

The document containing these laws, rules, regulations principles and the implementation methodology has been formulated with a view to maintaining the environmental conditions of the Chilaw Lagoon located in Puttalam District in a sustainable manner thereby ensuring and improving the livelihoods carried out in and around the lagoon.

After the plan is approved and forwarded to the Director General of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources by the Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon, the Director General having examined the compliance with the matters mentioned in the Act shall forward the same to the Minister of Fisheries for approval. (Section 31B).

Once the plan is approved and published in the Gazette the matters in the plan shall become operative (Subsection 4 of Section 31B)

The Minister shall give effect to the provisions of the plan by making appropriate regulations under Section 61 and by publishing appropriate notifications under Section 34. (Subsection 5 of the Section 31B)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.20242A

01. Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chliaw Lagoon.

The committee appointed by the Director General of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources under the Section 31A of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act No. 2 of 1996 as amended No. 35 of 2013 designated as the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon hereinafter. (Its composition is shown under Annexure 01)

02. The area in which the Fisheries Development and Management Plan of Chilaw Lagoon is implemented

Chilaw Lagoon waters and the land area belonging to 30 identified Grama Niladhari divisions adjacent thereto belonging to the Divisional Secretariat Divisions of Mahawewa, Madampe, Chilaw and Arachchikattuwa in Puttalam District North Western Province of Sri Lanka (Chilaw Lagoon Management Area published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1964/3 and dated 25.04.2016 provisions in Section 31(1) of the Fisheries Management Areas of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996 as amended No. 35 of 2013 is designated as the Fisheries Management Area of Chilaw Lagoon).

Geographical Area

The lagoon area identified within Chilaw Lagoon will be described by the map contaning in GPS data. (Annexure No. 02).

Grama Niladhari Divisions of Mahawewa Divisional Secretariat Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw Lagoon.

1. 531 A Thoduwawa North Grama Niladhari Division 2. 532 Iranawila West Grama Niladhari Division 3. 532 A Iranawila East Grama Niladhari Division

Grama Niladhari Divisions of Madampe Divisional Secretariat Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw Lagoon.

1. 560 Pambala South Grama Niladhari Division 2. 560 A Pambala Grama Niladhari Division 3. 534 C Galahitiyawa Grama Niladhari Division

Grama Niladhari Divisions of Chilaw Divisional Secretariat Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw Lagoon.

1. 561 Kakkapalliya Grama Niladhari Division 2. 562 Ambakandawila Grama Niladhari Division 3. 562 A Walihena Grama Niladhari Division 4. 563 Pahala Olidaluwa Grama Niladhari Division 5. 566 Merawala Grama Niladhari Division 6. 566 B Maikkulama Grama Niladhari Division 7. 566 C Inigodawala Grama Niladhari Division 8. 575 A Kurusapaduwa Grama Niladhari Division 9. 575 C Egodawatta Grama Niladhari Division 10. 576 Aluthwatta Grama Niladhari Division 11. 576 A Aluthwatta Grama Niladhari Division 12. 577 Weralabada Grama Niladhari Division 13. 578 A Pitipana South Grama Niladhari Division 14. 578 B Pitipana North Grama Niladhari Division 15. 579 Wattakkalliya Grama Niladhari Division 16. 579 B Deduru Oya Grama Niladhari Division

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024

3A

Grama Niladhari Divisions of Arachchikattuwa Grama Niladhari Division bordering the identified area of land of the Chilaw Lagoon.

1. 591 Battuluoya Grama Niladhari Division 2. 590 Anavilundawa Grama Niladhari Division 3. 589 Suruwila Grama Niladhari Division 4. 585 B Wairankattuwa Grama Niladhari Division 5. 583 Kusala Grama Niladhari Division 6. 584 Kottapitiya Grama Niladhari Division 7. 582 Karukkupane Grama Niladhari Division 8. 573 Bangadeniya Grama Niladhari Division

03. Major activities to be implemented with the involvement of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of the Chilaw Lagoon.

To formulate a plan including activities / development proposals that can or should be implemented in the Chilaw Lagoon and around it and to implement the same based on the principles indicated in the plan.

All the members and partner institutions of the Coordinating Committee of the Chilaw Lagoon shall operate their services and provide relevant permissions based in the plan.

04. Principles

The Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee should act according to the following principles and values in decision making on harvesting, use and consumption of the resources of the lagoon ecosystem in order to preserve the biodiversity of the lagoon eco system, wildlife and to meet justice between generations.

• Equitable distribution of resources • Lawfulness • Co-ordination/representation • Transparency • Environmental friendliness • Efficiency and effectiveness • Accountability • Common consensus (irrespective of race/religion/caste/political/professional power) • Effective response • Collectivity • Sustainable use of resources

05. Institutional structure

05.01. Implementation Methodology

1. There are 12 Lagoon Fisheries Management Committees that include lagoon fishermen engaged in the fisheries industry in Chilaw Lagoon. (Fisheries Management Committees had been established and registered for Chilaw Lagoon Management area published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1772/29 and dated 22.08.2012 by Director General of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources provisions in Sub section 3 of Section 32 of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996).

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.20244A

Name of the Fisheries Committee Registration No.

1.1 Muthupanthiya Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./01 1.2 Naguleliya Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./02 1.3 Aluthwatta Carmel Mata Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./03 1.4 Palugasthanna Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./04 1.5 Welihena Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./05 1.6 Merawela St. Joseph Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./06 1.7 Iranawila Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./07 1.8 Ambakandavila Fisheries Lagoon Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./08 1.9 Thaladiya Beach Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./09 1.10 Pambala St. Sebastian Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./10 1.11 Karukkupane Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./11 1.12 St. Michael Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee DFAR/F.Com/C.L./12

2. The 12 lagoon Fisheris Management Committee shall meet separately once every month on agreed dates.

3. Twelve (12) members shall represent in the Chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee with one member representing each Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee who is elected at the 12 Lagoon Fisheries Management Committees.

4. The Annual General Meeting of the 12 Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee is held in December every year.

5. The Coordinating Committee will be established for Chilaw Lagoon with the representation of 12 Chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee in accordance with the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996 and the provisions of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment) Act, No. 35 of 2013. Its composition is mentioned under Annexure 01

6. The Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon shall be held once every 3 months and the District Assistant Director of Fisheries shall function as its Secretary while the Director General of Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and the District Secretary functions as Co-chairmen.

7. In the case of an essential requirement, the said Committee can meet even before the prescribed period.

7.1 Decision making methodology within the institutional structure.

1. The decision making process in respect of harvesting, use and consumption of the aquatic resources of the lagoon shall be carried out by the Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee and the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon in accordance with the principles and agreements identified in this plan.

2. The Director General of Fisheries and the District Secretary of Puttalam shall function as the Co-

Chairman of the Fisheris Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon.

3. Fishing operations in the lagoon shall be monitored by the Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee and/or Fisheries Officers, If there are any unsolvable issues, the same shall be referred to the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon.

4. When submitting proposals of Chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee to the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon, the proposals to be submitted shall be adopted with majority votes by each Fisheries Management Committee. Then, the members representing the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon shall cause the same to be taken up and decided on at the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024

5A

5. The proposals presented by the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon and the other partners for the decision of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon shall be taken up at the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon (subject to No. 7.1.1)

6. When submitting a development proposal that may effect the lagoon ecosystem to the member institutions or partners of the Chilaw Lagoon Coordinating Committee for seeking permissions and discussions or when implementing such a development plan, necessary approval for the same shall initially be taken from the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon.

6.1 In giving the approval, it should be informed to take an approval of the Central Enviornmental

Authority/Provincial Environmental Authority (Environmetal Impact Assessment/Environmental Recommendation) and subsequently, the recommendation of the relevant report shall be submitted to the recommendation of the Technical Committee of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon.

6.2 The Committee shall appoint a Technical Committee that is only relevant to a specific project from among the members of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon.

7. The Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon shall make a development plan referred under heading number 05 for the lagoon and accordingly, the Committee by implementing the same, shall take action to monitor, regulate and review the plan.

06. Conservation of protected natural resources and eco species of the lagoon.

All that plant communities in the mangrove ecosystem including the land strip/lagoon water/fish, birds and other aquatic organisms and the islands within the lagoon will be designated as natural resources belonging to the Chilaw Lagoon.

1. Mangroves should not be destroyed in the Lagoon Management Area and Mangroves be replanted as appropriate.

2. Waste should be disposed of –

I. When releasing water to the lagoon from shrimp farms adjacent to the lagoon, the same should not be released to the lagoon without it being stored in residual tanks in the farm for at least two weeks.

II. Waste water or solid waste discharged from animal farms, factories, hotels, houses, vessels and institutions should not be disposed of to the management area.

III. All living and non living resources other than consumable fish shall be considered research/acquisition/destruction/filling done without the permission and the approval of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon and no such activity shall be carried out within the lagoon and protected area.

3. Declaration of sensitive areas in the Chilw Lagoon.

The fisheries management coordinating committee of chilaw lagoon may designate sensitive areas of the lagoon from time to time and no any fishing activitiers shall be carried out in these areas

07. The activities that can be and cannot be done and restrictions within the Chilaw Lagoon.

1. Only the fishermen who have obtained membership of each of the 12 Fisheries Management Committee are permitted to engage in fishing industry in the lagoon.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.20246A

2. Having registered the fishing vessels engaging in fisheries industry and fishing operations in accordance with the fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996, painted the registration numbers properly and obtained fisheries operations licences, the respective fishing operations shall be carried out.

3. It fishing vessels are used for fishing operations in the lagoon, only non-mechanized fishing vessels can be used for that purpose.

4. Fishing methods in the lagoon.

1. Mesh size of gill nets should not be less than 1 1/2" and the maximum net size that can be set is 10 net pieces with the length of 3000 mesh. Fishing operations can be carried out by means of the nets set in the lagoon (gill nets) from 4 pm to 6 am.

2. The mesh size of middle nets of trammel net laid for shrimp in the lagoon shall be not less than 1/2" and the maximum net size which can be set for shrimp fishing is 20 net pieces with a length of 3000 mesh. Also the mesh size of the triple nets set for catching other fish should not be less than 2 1/2". The maximum size of nets that can be set is about 12 net pieces with a length of 3000 mesh. Trammel nets can be used in the lagoon only from 4 pm to 6 am.

3. Only the members of Pambala, Merawala, Karukkupane Lagoon Management Committees can engage in fishing operations using mangrove brush piles. The circumference of one pen should not exceed 25 fathoms (450 meter) and the number of brush files should be not more than 8.

4. Fishing operations carried out by means of cast nets, lift nets for lagoon crabs, longlines, pole and line can be done at any time of the day.

5. Only members selected by the Aluthwatta Carmel Matha Fisheries Management Committee can carry out fyke net fishing only in the places and on dates assigned by the Committee.

6. Basket cane traps can be set from the mouth of the lagoon to the Muthupanthiya in the Dutch Cannel with some management and when tying a basket cane trap, an empty space of about 3 meters should be left in the middle of the cannel.

7. Also, fishing operations using lift nets for crabs, oyster landing operations, fishing operation by hand outside the mangrove areas can be carried out from the mouth of the Maha (big) lagoon only towards the south of the lagoon starting from Inigodawela, Pahala Olidaluwa Grama Niladhari Division by beating the water with a rod and scaring fish.

8. In addition to the above mentioned operations, no any other fishing operations shall be carried out in the

Chilaw Lagoon without the permission of the Fisheries Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon (not applicable to the experiments of the National Aquatic Research and Development Agency)

9. Aquaculture

1. Pen culture –

I. Only the members of the Lagoon Management Committee can carry out pen culture in the lagoon.

II. Pen culture can be carried out only after receiving the approval of the Fisheries Coordinating

Committee of Chilaw Lagoon on the recommendation of the respective Committee.

III. After receiving the approval of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of

Chilaw Lagoon, operations licence should be obtained from the National Aquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka of this purpose.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024

7A

2. Shrimp/fish culture carried out in ponds –

I. Permission will not be given to carry out new shrimp culture in the management area.

II. The approval of Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon should be obtained to resume shrimp of fish culture at an abandoned site of such culture upon the recommendation of the Lagoon Management Committee in the respective area.

III. After receiving this approval, operations licenses should be obtained from the National

Aquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka for this purpose.

08. Landing Sites of the Chilaw Lagoon where the fishing boats are moored.

1. Muthupanthiya Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. - Anavilundawa No. 590

The Landing Site near the community hall.

2. Naguleliya Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Anavilundawa No. 590

The Landing Site near church Wairankattuwa - G. N. Div. Wairankattuwa No. 585 B

3. Karukkupane Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Karukkupane No. 582 Periyakarukkupane Medapaduwa (Near the church) Sinnakarukkupane

4. Thaladiyawella Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Egodawatta 575 C, Kurusapaduwa No. 575 A

Thaladiyawella Landing Site

5. Aluthwatta Carmel Mata Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Aluthwatta No. 576,

Aluthwatta No. 576 A, Maikkulama No. 566 B

Aluthwatta Landing Site Old Canoe Landing Site in front of the church Pitipana North Maikkulama

6. Merawala St. Joseph Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Merawala No. 566

Merawala Colony 1 Merawala Colony 2 Merawala Colony 3 Harindra Area

7. Pambala St. Sebestian Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Pambala North No. 560, Pambala South No. 560 A

Road end in from of the public cemetery End of Sarvodyaya Road. Near the Artisanal Fisheries Federation

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.20248A

8. Welihena St. Anthony Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Welihena South No. 562 A

St. Anthony Landing Site, Welihena Rajawatta Landing Site, Welihena

9. Palugasthanna Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Welihena South No. 562 A

Washington Landing Site Thinthaya Landing Site (Old Landing Site)

10. Ambakandawila Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Ambakandsawila Fisheries No. 562

Sarapuwatta Landing Site Riyansi Farm Landing Site Ambakandawila Landing Site Gangoda Landing Site

11. Iranawila Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee - G. N. Div. Iranawila East No. 532 A, Iranawila West No. 532, Thoduwawa North No. 531 A

Samidugama Landing Site Fisheries Villages Landing Site Thoduwawa North

The number of vessels opeerated from each landing site can be limited.

09. Submission of amendments to the Fisheries Development and Management Plan of Chilaw Lagoon

The Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon shall follow up the Fisheries Development and Management plan once every 3 years and include the amendments and proposals thereto. Once the amendments and proposals so entered are approved by the Committee, the same shall be presented to the Director General of Fisheries and be entered in the Fisheries Management Regulations of Chilaw Lagoon.

10. Violating the contents introduced in the Fisheries Development and Management Plan of Chilaw Lagoon.

When the contents in this plan related to the Fishing activities and the environment of the lagoon are violated, every partner of the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon shall identify the persons who violate the rules and agreements and then necessary legal action can be taken against them in accordance with the Regulations issued in terms of this Plan and the prescripts received by the relevant partners.

Annexure - 1

Upon the nomination made by the Fisheries Management Coordinating Committee of Chilaw Lagoon established for the Chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management area in provisions of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996 as amended Act, No. 35 of 2013, the officers to be included in that committee are as follows :

The Coordinating Committee shall be constituted by the Director General from among the following taking into consideration the matter to be determined by such Coordinating Committee under the Subsection 2 of the Section 31 of the aforesaid Fisheries Act.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024

9A

1. District Secretary - Puttalam

2. Assistant Director and two officers of the District Fisheries of Chilaw of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic

Resources.

3. Divisional Secretary - Mahawewa

4. Divisional Secretary - Madampe

5. Divisional Secretary - Chilaw

6. Divisional Secretary - Arachchikattuwa

7. Chairman, Pradeshiya Sabha - Naththandiya

8. Chairman, Pradeshiya Sabha - Chilaw

9. Chairman, Urban Council - Chilaw

10. Chairman, Pradeshiya Sabha - Arachchikattuwa

11. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the Urban Development Authority

12. Director, Ministry of Fisheries, North Western Province

13. An officer nominated by the Director General of Department of Coastal Conservation and Coastal Resources

Management.

14. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency.

15. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the National Aquaculture Development Authority of Sri Lanka

16. An officer nominated by the Director General of the Provincial Environmental Authority (NWP)

17. An officer nominated by the Director General of the Department of Wild Life Conservation

18. An officer nominated by the Director General of Department of Forest Conservation

19. An officer nominated by the Chairman of the Central Environmental Authority

20. An officer nominated by the Marine Environment Protection Authority

21. An officer nominated by the Ministry of Land

22. An officer nominated by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority

23. An officer of the Department of Sri Lanka Police nominated by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (NWP)

24. An officer nominated by the Director General of the Department of Coast Guard

25. An officer of the Sri Lanka Navy nominated by the Commander North Western Naval Area.

26. Commissioner of Local Government (North Western Province)

27. A representative of the Traditional Fyke Net Association of Chilaw

28. A representative of the Pambala Small Fisheries Federation

29. A representative of the Chilaw SEDEC Organization

30. A representative of the Sri Lanka Aquaculture Development Organization

31. 12 representatives for the Chilaw Lagoon Fisheries Management Committee at a rate of one representative from each

committee.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.202410A

Annexture 02

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2024

11A

Annexture 03

FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES ACT, No. 2 OF 1996

NOTIFICATION made by the Director-General of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources under Sub-section 3 of Section 32 of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996.

Notice

It is hereby notified that a Fisheries Management Committees had been established and registered for Chilaw Fisheries Management Area published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1744/4, 8th of February, 2012

Name of the Fisheries CommitteeRegistration No.

1.Mutupanthiya Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./012.Naguleliya Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./023.Aluth Watta Carmel Matha Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./034.Palugastanna Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./045.Walihena Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./056.Marawala St. Joseph Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./067.Iranawila East Diyawara Village Fisheries Lagoon Management Committee DFAR/F. Com/C.L./078.Ambakandawila Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./089.Thaladiyawella Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./0910.Pambala St. Sebastian Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./1011.Karukapana Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./1112.St. Micayel Fisheries Lagoon Management CommitteeDFAR/F. Com/C.L./12

N. D. Hettiarachchi, Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources.

Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, New Secretariat Building,Maligawatta, Colombo 10,15th August, 2012.

EOG 03 - 0115

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.