==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2085$1 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 20 jeks i÷od - 2018'08'20No. 2085/1 - MONDAY AUGUST 20, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA.

Presidential Directive

ESTABLISHMENT of a Special Agency by His Excellency the President in the exercise of powers vested in His Excellencyby Article 33(2) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to conduct a study of existing salarystructures in the public service, to minimize salary anomalies among different services in the entire public service and inState Corporations, Statutory Boards and Government owned companies through a systematic evaluation of the nature ofthe role and responsibilities of the staff of such services and to make recommendations to provide an optimal salarystructure for the state sector devoid of salary anomalies to enable the recruitment of qualified officers from the labourmarket and retain them.

1.S. Ranugge Esqr.2.K. L. L. Wijeratne Esqr.3.T. P. Collure Esqr.4.C. P. Siriwardene Esqr.5.Madam Sudharma Karunaratne6.Janaka Sugathadasa Esqr.7.Madam Dharani S. Wijethilake8.Lalith R de Silva Esqr.9.G. S. Edirisinghe Esqr.10.A. R. Deshapriya Esqr.11.Madam B. P. P. S. Abeygunarathne12.Dr Palitha Abeykoon Esqr.13.P. Thangamayil Esqr.14.S. D. Jayakody Esqr.15.M. C. Wickramasekara Esqr.

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Seal

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A- G 27787 — 32 (08/2018)N.B.—Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 2084/1 ends with No. 2084/66.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.20182A

Greetings :

Although the Salaries and Cadre Commission was established to advise and assist the government in the formulation andimplementation of a national salary policy to facilitate the fulfillment of manpower requirements public sector as well asthe private sector following the conduct of a cadre study and a review of the salaries, wages and other emolument structuresof the entire public service with the object of improving the efficiency and productivity of public service to fulfill theaspirations of the people within good governance, the government intends to obtain further recommendations on urgentremedial action that can be taken after analysing factors that have led to unrest owing to inequalities, anomalies and conflictsthat exist in salary structures in state sector, especially in services such as railway, postal and health where a large number oftrade unions operate, as well as the All Island Services.

Accordingly, considering the fact that the Salaries and Cadre Commission has issued Management Services CircularNo. 02/2016 having studied and reviewed the salary structure of the state sector and amending salaries of cadres in StateCorporations, Statutory Boards and Government owned companies ; Management Services Circular No. 03/2016 amendingthe salaries of members of Armed Forces ; Management Services Circular No. 04/2016 amending the salaries of the staffof the University Grants Commission and academic and non-academic staff of Universities ; Management Services CircularsNo. 05/2016, 03/2017, 01/2018, 02/2018 amending the salaries of Judicial Service Officers ; and Management ServicesCircular No. 06/2016 amending the salaries of Parliamentary staff.

Considering further the situation of unrest owing to trade union action demanding increases in salaries and allowancesin proportion to salary increases made from time to time for various services, and concurrently, the adverse impact on theefficiency of results in public service provision, and the economic cost incurred by the government.

Considering further that a large disparity has been created between the take home salaries of staff in Corporations,Statutory Boards, Government owned companies and Government Banks on the one hand, and the salaries and all emolumentsof staff of Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Government Banks, Sri Lanka Ports Authority, Ceylon Electricity Board, NationalWater Supply and Drainage Board, large scale Government business such as Ceylon Petroleum Corporation which areincreased by 20% - 25% every three years on the basis of collective agreements on the other hand.

Further considering that various demands are being made by other staff of the public sector to increase theiremoluments in view of the high emoluments drawn by the staffs of insitutions operating on collective agreements.

Further considering that attention should focus on the income earned, profit and the contribution made to the staterevenue by public enterprises when deciding on salaries and allowances for the staff of the said institutions.

Further considering that remedies should be provided, after study, if any detriment has been caused to servicessuch as Railway service, Postal service and Health Services which has large employee categories, when by PublicAdministration Circular No. 6/2006, 127 salary scales which existed at that time were reduced to 36 salary scales under 4classifications, namely senior, tertiary, secondary and primary grades with the intention of updating and simplifying postand grades.

And further considering that in view of all above situations there is a risk of adverse impacts on the community lifeand the overoll development process resulting from breakdown of industrial peace and strike action owing to increase inservice problems in the whole public service if appropriate and urgent solutions are not provided after revising the salariesand allowances of the entire public service.

And the Government is desirious of establishing a Special Commission on reviewing the salaries of the PublicSector (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for the purpose of ;

(a)Studying the impact on the provision of proposed salary scales to the Sri Lanka Railway SupervisoryManagement Service focussing on the existing salary circulars in relation to the salaries and allowances ofthe Public Service, and recommending methodologies to resolve any emerging issues.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.20183A

(b)Recommending solutions to minimize salary anomalies if any, caused by the existing salary circulars forrailway, health, higher education and education and postal service sectors that have made recent demands toincrease salaries and allowances.

(c)Making recommendations to minimize the salary anomalies that have been identified in relation to existingsalary problems in All Island Service as well as salary increases already effected.

(d)Making recommendations for a salaries and wages structure that will guide to minimize the anomalies insalaries and wages drawn by persons bearing similar responsibilities or similary qualification or professionalsin government and semi-government institutions.

AND WHEREAS I am of the views that the execution of the duties and responsibilities the said Commission is entrustedwith, as identified above, should commence immediately in the interest of public welfare.

Now, therefore, I, Maithripala Sirisena, President, in pursuance of the provisions of Article 33(2) of the Constitutionof the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby establish the Special Commission for Reviewing of Salariesof the Public Sector to undertake and execute the said duties and responsibilities for a two (02) months period commencingAugust 20, 2018.

And reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity do by these presents, appoint you, thesaid.

1.S. Ranugge Esqr.2.K. L. L. Wijeratne Esqr.3.T. P. Collure Esqr.4.C. P. Siriwardene Esqr.5.Madam Sudharma Karunaratne6.Janaka Sugathadasa Esqr.7.Madam Dharani S. Wijethilake8.Lalith R de Silva Esqr.9.G. S. Edirisinghe Esqr.10.A. R. Deshapriya Esqr.11.Madam B. P. P. S. Abeygunarathne12.Dr Palitha Abeykoon Esqr.13.P. Thangamayil Esqr.14.S. D. Jayakody Esqr.15.M. C. Wickramasekara Esqr.

as members of the Special Commission for Reviewing of Salaries of the Public Sector and direct you to take allsuch steps as may be deemed necessary to proceed with the implementation of the tasks set out from (a) to (d) above.

And I, further appoint S. Ranugge Esqr. as the Chairman of the Commission and H. G. Sumanasinghe Esqr. as theSecretary to the Commission.

And I, do hereby authorize the Commission to issue instructions, to make inquiries and investigate matters as maybe necessary in relation to the execution of the tasks the said Commission is hereby entrusted with.

And I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Commission may issueinstructions or apply for assistance for information, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and furnishall such information as may properly, be complied with, rendered and furnished, in that behalf.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'08'20PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.08.20184A

Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 20th day of August, in the yearTwo Thousand and Eighteen.

By Order of His Excellency,

UDAYA R. SENEVIRATHNE,Secretary to the President.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.