THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Part II of March 09, 2018

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 09.03.2018)

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE(AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause inserts new section 122A in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15of 1979 and the legal effect of the amendment is to enable the officer in charge of a police stationto cause, a child of, or above twelve years of age and under fourteen, alleged to have committed anoffence, to be examined with the consent of the parent or guardian of such child, by a Governmentmedical officer or other expert in the relevant field, in order to assist the Magistrate to form hisopinion on the maturity of understanding of such child, to act in compliance with the provisions ofsection 76 of the Penal Code.

1Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

5

10

15

Short title.

L. D.—O. 42/2016.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDUREACT, NO. 15 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:–

1.This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Amendment) Act, No. of 2018.

2.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 122 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 and shall have effect as section122A of that Act:–

122A. (1) The officer in charge of the policestation who is investigating an offence allegedto have been committed by a child of, or above,twelve years of age and under fourteen years,shall, with the consent of the parent or guardianof such child, cause the child to be examinedby a Government medical officer or any otherexpert in the relevant field, in order to obtain areport which enables the Magistrate havingjurisdiction in the case, to form his opinionwhether such child—

(a)has attained sufficient maturity ofunderstanding to judge, of the natureand consequences of the allegedoffence; and

(b)is in need of any therapeuticintervention.

Insertion ofnew section122A in theAct, No. 15of 1979.

20

“Medicalexaminationin case of anoffencealleged tohave beencommittedby a child of,or abovetwelve yearsof age andunderfourteen.

25

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)2

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

5

(2) Where such parent or guardian of thechild does not consent to the child being soexamined, the officer in charge of the policestation shall apply to the Magistrate havingjurisdiction in the case, for an order authorizingsuch Government medical officer or otherexpert to examine such child.

(3) Such Government medical officer orother expert shall submit his report to theofficer in charge of the police station who shallsubmit such report to the Magistrate, in orderto assist him to form his opinion as referred toin subsection (1) and to make his decision,taking into consideration the provisions ofsection 76 of the Penal Code.”.

3.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

10

15

3Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING