I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 21.10.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2146$3 - 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 21 jeks i÷od - 2019'10'21No. 2146/3 - MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4713— 617 (10/2019)

L.D.B 9/2016(II)

THE NATIONAL MEDICINES REGULATORY AUTHORITY ACT, No. 5 OF 2015

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine under Section 142 read with Section 118of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015.

Dr. RAJITHA SENARATNE (M.P.)Minister of Health, Nutrition andIndigenous Medicine.

Colombo,11th October, 2019.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as Pricing Regulations, 2019.

2. These regulations shall apply to and in relation to pricing of medicines, medical devices and borderline products(hereinafter referred to as “medicinal products”) in these regulations.

3. The Authority shall, for the determination of introductory prices of medicinal products, consider the prevailingmarket prices in Sri Lanka and any other countries of similar products within the same therapeutic class, regional andinternational reference prices and any other factors determined by the Pricing Committe including information from any otherrelevant sources, the cost, insurance an freight value of the medicinal products and the applicable exchange rate.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 21.10.20192A

4. The pricing committee shall consist of the following :-

(a) ex-officio members

(i) the Chairman of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority ;

(ii) the Chief Executive Officer of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority ;

(iii) a representative of the Consumer Affairs Authority ; and

(iv) a pharmacist of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority.

(b) seven persons from among persons who have expertise, experience or proven capacity in the fields ofMedicine, Pharmacy, Economics, Commerce, Accountancy, Law or any other related field.

5. The Authority shall appoint one of the members of the Pricing Committee as the Chairman of the Committee.

6. The quorum for any meeting of the Pricing Committee shall be seven members.

7. The Pricing Committee may regulate its own procedure in regard to its meetings and transaction of business atsuch meetings.

8. The members of the Pricing Committee shall be paid such allowances as the Authority may determine.

9. The powers and functions of the Pricing Committee shall include -

(a) assisting the Authority in obtaining relevant information and data from the manufacturers, importers, wholesaledealers, retail pharmacists, prescribers, dispensers and any other person in Sri Lanka or any other countrywhich may influence the determination of the price of any individual medicinal product or a group ofmedicinal products ;

(b) recommending to the Authority a reduction or increase in prices or maintaining the existing price of amedicinal products or a group of medicinal products ;

(c) monitoring the price fluctuations of a medicinal product ;

(d) collecting data on the use of a medicinal product or a group of medicinal products in Sri Lanka ;

(e) recommending to the Authority the methods of determining the introductory price and maximum retail priceof medicinal products and price revisions of such medicinal products. ;

(f) advising the Authority on any other matter relating to pricing of a medicinal product ;

(g) from time to time, take into consideration the medicinal products which shall be subject to revision of prices.

10. The holder of the certificate of registration or the local manufacturer of any medicinal product shall submitreports on the quantities imported or supplied to the market of such registered product, to the Authority once in every sixmonths.

11. It shall be the responsibility of the importer or the local manufacturer to inform the retailers, wholesale dealersand other relevant parties of the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) fixed by the Minister and the date of implementation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'21PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 21.10.20193A

12. Every manufacturer or importer shall mark the retail unit price of each medicinal product in the commercialpackage.

13. A person who sells a particular medicinal product at a price higher than the price fixed as the Maximum RetailPrice (MRP) commits an offence.

14. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Pricing Committee may, from time to time, considering the needfor setting a Maximum Retail Price (MRP), for a particular medicinal product or group of medicinal products in the bestinterest of the public shall make recommendations to the Minister to revise the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) and mayrequire relevant data from any holder of a certificate of registration of any medicinal product or local manufacturer.

15. The Pricing Committee may from time to time decide on the number of price revisions for any medicinal productduring a calendar year.

16. Each application for registration or renewal of registration of any medicinal product shall set out the existing andthe intended Maximum Retail Price (MRP), of the medicinal product together with the method of deciding the MaximumRetail Price (MRP). The application shall be as recommended by the Authority. Where appropriate, the Pricing Committeemay, after studying the price of any medicinal product, give its recommendation with respect to the Maximum RetailPrice (MRP) to the Medicines Evaluation Committee established under section 43 of the National Medicines RegulatoryAuthority Act, No. 5 of 2015.

17. The pricing committee may require such information as it considers necessary in respect of costs includingfreight, insurance and any other cost from manufacturers, importers and traders and such manufacturers, importers or tradersshall provide the required information with proper explanation and account of such data.

18. No manufacturer, importer or any other person shall carry out any activity influencing the price or the availabilityof any medicinal product which may lead to -

(a) the existence or possible existence of a monopoly situation ;

(b) the creation or possible creation of a merger situation ;

(c) the prevalence of any anti-competitive practice.

19. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations commits an offence and shall be triable undersection 131 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015.

11 - 628

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.