==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20171A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%hThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 2030$22 – 2017 wf.daia;= 02 jeks nodod – 2017'08'02No. 2030/22 – WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 02, 2017

1A – G 025998– 23 (2017/08)This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No.: id'.s$j;=/02/2017.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part andthe Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day of March, 2017, regarding the Maintenanceand Support Staff is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments ofCeylon (Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Acting Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,17th July, 2017.

Collective Agreement No. 17 of 2017

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT – MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT STAFF

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriyaof the First Part and the Ceylon Estate, Staffs Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into on theTwenty third day of March Two Thousand Seventeen Witnesseth as follows:-

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Maintenance and Support Staff Collective Agreement.

2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose namesare contained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, forand in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.

3. Unions and Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafterreferred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I onmonthly contracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.

4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of thesecategories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to theexistence of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved by reference to the ‘disputes Committee’ to beformed under the provisions of this agreement and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, ifthe matter is not resolved before the ‘disputes Committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Union actionon the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.

5. Date of Operation and Duration.– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1stOctober, 2016 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the IndustrialDisputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September, 2019.

6.General Terms and Conditions.–

(i) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st March 2017 and shall bedeemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect from the said date.Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect of any payment whatsoever relating to such revised terms for the period 1stOctober 2016 up to 28th February 2017.

(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.

7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the rightof the employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatisfactoryperformance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not beingextended after the period of six months, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed, notwithstanding there being no letter of confirmation.During the period of probation or extended probation, the Employer and shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasonstherefor.

8. Attendance At Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work onevery day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available forwork throughout the normal working hours.

9. Salaries.–

(1) The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st March 2017 shall be asfollows:

(i) With effect from 1st March 2017, the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreementshall be increased by 25% based on last drawn salary.

(ii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary scales applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of thisagreement.

(iii) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound will to pay therevised salaries in the month of March 2017.

10. Hours of work and Overtime.– The decisions of the relevant Wages Board shall apply.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20173A

11. Leave.–

1. Employees presently enjoying 14 days annual leave shall continue to do so. Others will receive annual holidays in accordancewith the relevant Wages Board Decisions applicable to them.

2. (i) Sick Leave- Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be grantedup to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over, a Medical Certificatefrom an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the right of theEmployer to call for a Medical Certificate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.

(ii)In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which hecould use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition, however, thathe cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave, he shall be permitted tocontinue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.

3. Casual Leave- Employees, if they are presently enjoying same, shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) dayscasual leave with full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will notbe carried over to the next year.

4. Employees shall be allowed Public Holidays to which they are entitled by the Decisions of the relevant Wages Board.

12. Gratuity.- Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

13. Age of Retirement.–

(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicableto those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.

(ii) However, an Employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “Unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act ofmiscon duct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.

(iii) An employer who dicides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above, shall give suchemployee one year’s notice, in writing, or pay one year’s salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given andthe employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would haveotherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the factthat notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.

14. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–

1.Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided, however, that such suspensionshall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

2.Punishment in excess of three day’s suspension, without pay, shall only be after a domestic inquiry.

15. Suspension pending Disciplinary Inquires.–

1.An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month, pending a disciplinaryinquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct againsthim. Such suspension shall be in writing.

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

2.Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shallbe on half pay.

3.The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pendinginquries by the Police, by other public Authorities or Audit verifications.

16. Administrative Transfers.–

1.Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to theexigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with onemonth’s notice, in writting.

2.Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account ofchildren’s schooling or the spouse’s employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month’s notice,in writing.

3.Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in thatparticular year.

4.The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to grade 01 in school also will be considered on a case by casebasis.

5.No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to hisretirement.

6.The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2) (3) and (4) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but theManagement shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.

17. Annual Increments.–

1.Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of year’s service. The increments will be awarded inaccordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employeesin the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, heshall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.

2.An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after theemployee has been notified, in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous,whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.

3.Revised annual increments shall be paid to all employees in employment from 1st March 2017.

18. Disciplinary Inquiries.–

1.An employee may be suspended without pay by his employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissalor where, in the opinion of the employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to beavoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay, he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for suchsuspension within three days of the actual suspension.

2.An employee may also be suspended with pay, pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the managementdeems that such measure is necessary.

3.An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show - cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against himand the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Wherenecessary, the employee may request further time and the employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending onthe nature of the charges but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.

4.If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges andwhere appropriate, he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory,the Employershall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 workingdays from the date on which the explanation to the ‘Show-cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances prevent theEmployer from doing so.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20175A

5.An employee shall be permitted to have a union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a

professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation, he shall inform the Superintendent of the

name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object

to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure of an

employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

6.The employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days

from the date on which the inquiry is concluded , unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be

delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending

criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused

employee shall be exonerated of the charges.

7.Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee

summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for

summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

19. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Disputes.–

1.Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any

of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.

2.Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as

personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption

of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.

3.Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner-General of

Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.

4.It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members shall not resort to any

form of Trade Union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

20. Disputes Resolution Committee.– It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution committee’ comprising of 4 members each

representing the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and the Ceylon Estates Staff Union will be formed. Such committee will meet once in

three months to resolve any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions of this

agreement, if required. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice.

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

21. Duty Leave.–

1.Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other Office Bearer of the parent Union will

be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.

2.Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office-bearer of the Parent Union,

as specified in sub-clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.

3.By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the parent Union shall be allowed twelve days’ duty leave in

any one year.

4.By arrangement with their respective employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave

which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve

days in any one year.

5.By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave

which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two

Office bearers shall not exeed twelve days in any one year.

Part II

1.The Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I to this Agree

ment undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in the situation of amalgamation/sub

leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations.

2.Electricity.–Free electricity would be grandted to members of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been

enjoying in the past.

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior staff-140 units

Junior staff-100 units

Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior staff-170 units

Junior staff-130 units

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in six months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.

Kerosene - The Employer shall provide 25 liters Kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions

without electricity.

3.Tea Allowance.– The Employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits

in those catagories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20177A

Senior staff-2 Kgs.

Junior staff-11/2 Kgs.

The staff members could purchase, in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or

COP, whichever is lower.

Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992, would be entitled

to purchase a maximum of 3 kg. at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA, whichever is lower with effect from 1st June

2003.

4.Death Grant.–

1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the Dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 75,000/- as funeral

expenses.

2. The Dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to three months’ salary within one

month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the Dependants hand over the staff quarters.

3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the Dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to three months’

salary within one month of the death of the staff member.

5.Medical Aid Scheme.–

1. The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers’ contribution shall be 10%.

2. A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fund

inclusive of the company’s contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment

from the estate.

INTERPRETATION

WORD MEANING

UnionMeans the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispute Act.

EmployerMeans a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.

WeekMeans the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.

YearMeans a continuous period of 12 months.

GenderA reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20179A

SCHEDULE I

Agalawatte plantations PLC

Agarapatana Plantations Limited

Balangoda Plantations PLC

Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC

Elpitiya Plantations PLC

Elkaduwa Plantations Limited

Hapugastenne Plantations PLC

Horana Plantations PLC

Kahawatte Plantations PLC

Kegalle Plantations PLC

Kelani Valley Plantations PLC

Kotagala Plantations PLC

Madulsima Plantations PLC

Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC

Maskeliya Plantations PLC

Maturata Plantations Limited

Namunukula Plantations PLC

Pussellawa Plantations Limited

Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC

Udapussellawa Plantations PLC

Watawala Plantations PLC

SCHEDULE II

MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT STAFF SALARY RANGES

Lorry/ Tractor Driver/Electrician/Mechanic/Motor MechanicRs. 22,950.00 - Rs.40,950.00Annual Increment450

Black Smith/Carpenter/Driver/Mechanic/Engine Driver/Welder/Car Driver etc.Rs. 22,800.00 - Rs.40,800.00Annual Increment450

08 – 609

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

My No.: id'.s$j;=/05/2017.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part andthe Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day of March, 2017, regarding the Medical Staffis hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (RevisedEdition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Acting Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,26th July, 2017.

Collective Agreement No. 20 of 2017

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT – MEDICAL STAFF

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon of 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya ofthe First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into on theTwenty third day of March Two Thousand Seventeen Witnesseth as follows:

1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Medical Staff Collective Agreement.

2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose namesare contained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, forand in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.

3. Unions and Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafterreferred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I onmonthly contracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.

4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of thesecategories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to theexistence of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved by reference to the the ‘disputes Committee’ tobe formed under the provisons of this agreement and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act,if the matter is not resolved before the ‘Disputes Committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Unionaction on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.

5. Date of Operation and Duration.– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1stOctober, 2016 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the IndustrialDisputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September, 2019.

6.General Terms and Conditions.–

(a) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st March 2017 and shall bedeemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect from the said date.Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect of any payment whatsoever relating to such revised terms for the period 1stOctober, 2016 up to 28th February, 2017.

(i)Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.

(ii)The following rules of grading shall apply to the specified grades:

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201711A

(a) A pharmacist shall be a person who has successfully obtained an acceptable qulification.

(b) A midwife (Grade 1) shall be a person with qulifications and training.

(b) All Registered Practitiones (RMPs), Estate Medical Assistants (EMAS) and Assistant Medical Practitioners (AMPs) with over 20years experience shall be placed on the Medical Practitioners Grade.

(c) All Estate Medical Assistants (EMAs) and All/Assistant Medical Practitioners (AMPs) with less than 20 years service shall beplaced in the Estate Medical Practitioners Grade.

7.Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the rightof the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatisfactoryperformance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period notbeing extended after the period of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter ofconfirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigningreasons therefore.

8.First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed theG.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in thetrade.

9.Attendance at Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work onevery day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available forwork throughout the normal working hours.

10.Promotions.–

(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shalladvertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications tomake them eligible.

(ii) Where an Employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he willnot be required to serve a period of probation.

(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated tohim in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which was lastpaid to the holder of such senior position subject to a maximum of Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred. (Rs. 1,500/-) permensem.

(iv) Where the acting period, other than in over looking positions, continue for 6 months the employer shall prior to the expiryof 6 months inform the employee in writing whether he is confirmed in the post or reverted to his substantive post.

11.Salaries.–

1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st March, 2017 shall be asfollows:

(i) With effect from 1st March, 2017 the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement shallbe increased by 25% based on last drawn salary.

(ii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary scales applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of thisagreement.

(iii) In the case of Welfare Officer/Storekeeper who are presently entitled to an allowance on account of work as a WelfareOfficer/Stoekeeper, as the case may be such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 12.5% ofthe salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemednecessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.

(iv) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound will to paythe revised salaries in the month of March 2017.

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

2.(a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided tothem, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and therevised allowance will be as follows:

Child Development Officers, Orderly andWard Attendant-Rs. 1,122/- + 10% = Rs. 1,234/-Midwife (Grade II), WelfareOfficer, Apprentice Pharmacist,Midwife (Grade I)-Rs. 1,188/- + 10% = Rs. 1,306/-Pharmacist/Junior EstateMedical Assistant-Rs. 1,386/- + 10% = Rs. 1,525/-Estate Medical Practitioner-Rs. 1,518/- + 10% = Rs. 1,670/-Medical Practitioner-Rs. 1,584/- + 10% = Rs. 1,742/-

(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable todisciplinary action.

12. Off Days.–A medical staff member shall be allowed one off day each week on which he will not be called upon to undertake routineduties. He will, however, be required to deal with all urgent cases, which may arise.

13. Calls at Night or on off Days.–

(i) With effect from the date hereof, an allowance of Rs. 175/- shall be paid to members of the medical staff for calls in the Linesbetween 6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. and Rs. 125/- in respect of calls to the hospital, dispensary and maternity ward between6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. In the case of a night call between 6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. to the Hospital, Dispensary or MaternityWard, dealing with childbirth, the allowance payable shall be Rs. 400/-.

(ii) A call which has to be attended to in the Lines on a prescribed off day shall be treated as a night call and paid for at Rs. 175/-per call .

(iii) ‘‘Calls’’ shall mean physical visits.

(iv) An Estate Medical Practitioner or Estate Medical Assistant overlooking work on another estate shall be paid an allowanceof Rs. 500/- in respect of each visit he is required to make to such other estate.

(v) Midwives shall be paid a uniform allowance of Rs. 3,000/- per year.

14. Holidays.– Employees will be entitled to paid holidays on

February 4th–Independence DayApril 13th or 14th –Sinhala /Tamil New YearMay 1st–May Day

15. Leave.–

1. Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave entitlement shall be on aproportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to threeweeks paid annual leave as a special benefit this right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.

2.(i) SICK LEAVE – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will begranted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over,a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considerednecessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as aforementioned, where he deemsit appropriate.

(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, whichhe could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the conditionhowever that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201713A

(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permittedto continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.

3. CASUAL LEAVE – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay,not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the nextyear.

4. Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowed each year to each employee on account of religious festivals in accordancewith the religious persuasions of such employee. Such leave may not, however, be taken in continuation with Casual leave.

16. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

17. Age of Retirement.–

(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicableto those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.

(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act ofmisconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.

(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give suchemployee one year's notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given andthe employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would haveotherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the factthat notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.

18. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–

1. Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shallnot exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.

19. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries.–

1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquirywhen there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Suchsuspension shall be in writing.

2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall beon half pay.

3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiriesby the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.

20. Administrative Transfers.–

1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of aspouse, will, subject to the exigenciesof the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's noticein writing.

2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account ofchildren's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month's notice inwriting.

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that particularyear.

4. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 01 in School also will be considered on a case by case basis.

5. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to hisretirement.

6. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2) (3) (4) and above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the Managementshall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.

21. Annual Increments.–

1. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year’s service. The increments will be awarded in accordancewith the practice prevailing on each estate.Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees, in the event of anemployee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to anyincrement and will become eligible only from the following year.

2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the employee hasbeen notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage wouldbe only for the period relevant to the stoppage.

3. Revised annual increments shall be paid to all employees in employment from 1st March, 2017.

22.Disciplinary Inquiries.–

1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal or where,in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to be avoided. Wherean employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 daysof the actual suspension.

2. An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management deemsthat such measure is necessary.

3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘ show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him andthe employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Wherenecessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending on thenature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.

4. If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and whereappropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer shall hold adisciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days from the date onwhich the explanation to the ‘show cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the employer.

5. An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be aprofessional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the name ofthe person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object to the individualselected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative the failure of an employee to be defended byrepresentative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

6. The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days fromthe date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be delayed beyond90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If nofindings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply. the accused employee shall be exonerated ofthe charges.

7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee summarily. In such event the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for summary termination.Insuch event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201715A

23.Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment And Disputes.–

1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any of theterms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.

2. Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as personal,but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption of electricity,where a limit is fixed for all employees.

3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of Labourunder the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.

4. It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any formof Trade Union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

24.Disputes Resolution Committee.–

It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution committee’ comprising of 4 members each representing the Employers’Federation of Ceylon and the Ceylon Estates Staff Union will be formed. Such committee will meet once in three months to resolveany dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions of this agreement, ifrequired. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice.

25.Duty Leave.–

1. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will bepermitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.

2. where any disputes arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union, asspecified in sub clause (I) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.

3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in any oneyear.

4. By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave whichmay be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve days in anyone year.

5. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave whichmay be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Office bearersshall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

Part II

1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I to this Agreementundertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub - leasing ofestates/divisions/factories prior to such situations.

2. Electricity.–

Free electricity would be granted to members of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)Senior staff-140 unitsJunior staff-100 unitsElevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)Senior staff-170 unitsJunior staff-130 units

16AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.

Kerosene-Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident onestates/ divisions without electricity.

3.Tea Allowance.–

The employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those categoriespresently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.Senior staff-2 Kgs.Junior staff-11/2 Kgs.The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COPwhichever is lower.

Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled topurchase a maximum of 3 Kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June, 2003.

4.Death Grant.–

1.with effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 75, 000/-as funeral expenses.

2.The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month uponthe death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.

3.If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months' salarywithin one month of the death of the staff member.

5. Medical Aid Scheme.–

1.The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers' contribution shall be 10%

2. A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fundinclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment fromthe estate.

INTERPRETATION

WORD MEANING

UnionMeans the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in the industrial Dispute Act.

EmployerMeans a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.

WeekMeans the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.

yearMeans a continuous period of 12 months.

GenderA reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201717A

In Witness whereof the parties afore said have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen

18AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

SCHEDULE I

Agalawatte Plantations PLC

Agarapatana Plantations Limited

Balangoda Plantations PLC

Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC

Elpitiya Plantations PLC

Elkaduwa Plantations Limited

Hapugastenne Plantations PLC

Horana Plantations PLC

Kahawatte Plantations PLC

Kegalle Plantations PLC

Kelani Valley Plantations PLC

Kotagala Plantations PLC

Madulsima Plantations PLC

Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC

Maskeliya Plantations PLC

Maturata Plantations Limited

Namunukula Plantations PLC

Pussellawa Plantations Limited

Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC

Udapussellawa Plantations PLC

Watawala Plantations PLC

SCHEDULE II

MEDICAL STAFF SALARY RANGES

Child Development Officer/Orderly Ward/AttendantRs. 22,750.00 - Rs. 40,750.00450Annual Increment

Apprentice Pharmacist/Midwife Grade 1 & 2Welfare OfficerRs. 23,400.00 - Rs. 42,400.00475Annual Increment

Pharmacist/Junior Estate Medical AssistantRs. 24,600.00 - Rs. 51,600.00675Annual Increment

Estate Medical PractitionerRs. 25,850.00 - Rs. 67,850.001050Annual Increment

Medical PractitionerRs. 31,100.00 - Rs. 85,100.001350Annual Increment

08 - 610

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201719A

My No.: id'.s$j;=/01/2017.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part andthe Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day of March, 2017, regarding the Clerical Staffis hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (RevisedEdition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Acting Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,14th July, 2017.

Collective Agreement No. 16 of 2017

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT – CLERICAL STAFF

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon of 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya ofthe First Part and the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into on theTwenty third day of March Two Thousand Seventeen Witnesseth as follows:-

1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Clerical Staff Collective Agreement.

2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon, whose namesare contained in Schedule I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, forand in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.

3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referredto as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on monthlycontracts of employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.

4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of thesecategories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to theexistence of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved by reference to the ‘disputes Committee’ to beformed under the provisons of this agreement and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, if thematter is not resolved before the ‘disputes committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Union action onthe basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.

5. Date of Operation and Duration.– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1stOctober, 2016 and shall thereafter continue in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the IndustrialDisputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September, 2019.

6.General Terms and Conditions.–

(i) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 1st March 2017 and shall bedeemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect from the said date.Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect of any payment whatsoever relating to such revised terms for the period 1stOctober 2016 up to 28th February 2017.

20AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.

(iii) Upon completion of 10 years of satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Clerks shall be re-designated asClerks.

(iv) All Chief Clerks will be designated as Administrative Officers with effect from 01st March 2017.

7.Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the rightof the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatisfactoryperformance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period notbeing extended after the period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter ofconfirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice orassigning reasons therefor.

8.First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed theG.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in thetrade.

9.Attendance at Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work onevery day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available forwork throughout the normal working hours.

10.Promotions.–

(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shalladvertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications tomake them eligible.

(ii) Where an Employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he willnot be required to serve a period of probation.

(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicatedto him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which waslast paid to the holder of such senior position subject to a maximum of Rupees Two Thousand. (Rs. 2,000/-) per mensem.

(iv) Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months and during that period the employer shall pay the employee 10% ofemployees’ basic salary as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential benefitssuch as EPF and ETF.

11.Salaries.–1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st March, 2017 shall be asfollows:

(i) With effect from 1st March, 2017 the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreementshall be increased by 25% based on last drawn salary.

(ii) In the case of Stenographers/Clerks and Storekeepers/Clerks who are presently entitled to an allowance on account ofwork as a stenographere or Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowancesat the rate of 12.5% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are notperformed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.

(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of thisagreement.

(iv) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound will to paythe revised salaries in the month of March 2017.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201721A

2.(a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided tothem, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and therevised allowance will be as follows:

Junior Clerk-Rs. 1,122/- + 10% = Rs. 1,234.00/-Clerk-Rs. 1,188/- +10% = Rs. 1,307.00/-Senior Clerk-Rs. 1,386/- +10% = Rs. 1,525.00/-Administrative Officer-Rs. 1,518/- + 10% = Rs. 1,670.00/-Special Grade Administrative Officer-Rs. 1,584/- + 10% = Rs. 1,742.00/-

(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable todisciplinary action.

12. Overtime.–

If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.Overtime work shall be remunerated at one and a half times the normal hourly rate.

13. Weekly, Statutory and Poya Holidays.–

An Employee will be entitled to holidays as provided for in the Shop and Office Employees Act. Payment for work on suchdays shall be remunerated at the prescribed statutory rates.

14. Leave.–

1. Annual Leave and Casual Leave shall be granted as prescribed in the shop and Office Employees Act. All employees withmore than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit:this right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.

2.(i) SICK LEAVE – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will begranted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over,a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered neces-sary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as aforementioned, where he deems itappropriate.

(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, whichhe could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the conditionhowever that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permittedto continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.

3. CASUAL LEAVE – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay,not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the nextyear.

15. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.

16. Age of Retirement.–

(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicableto those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.

(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act ofmisconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.

(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give suchemployee one year's notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given andthe employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would haveotherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the factthat notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.

22AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

17. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–

1. Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shallnot exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.

2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.

18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries.–

1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquirywhen there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Suchsuspension shall be in writing.

2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in subclause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall beon half pay.

3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiriesby the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.

19. Administrative Transfers.–

1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of spouse, will, subject to the exigenciesof the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's noticein writing.

2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account ofchildren's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month's notice in

writing.

3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in thatparticular year.

4. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 01 in School also will be considered on a case by case

basis.

5. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to hisretirement.

6. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the

Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.

20. Annual Increments.–

1. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of an year's service. The increments will be awarded inaccordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees, in

the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shallnot be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.

2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the employee

has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppagewould be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.

3. Revised annual increments shall be paid to all employees in employment from 1st March, 2017.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201723A

21. Diciplinary Inquiries.–

1.An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal

or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs

to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for

such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.

2.An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management

deems that such measure is necessary.

3.An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against

him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or

explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable

amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in

exceptional circumstances.

4.If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and

where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Em-

ployer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30

working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received, unless circumstances prevent

the employer from doing so.

5.An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be

a professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of

the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the Inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may

object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure

of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.

6.The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working

days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the

findings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of

a pending criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply,

the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.

7.Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee

summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for

summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

22.Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes.–

1.Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any

of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.

2.Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as

personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consump-

tion of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.

24AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

3.Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreemet shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General ofLabour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.

4.It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort toany form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.

23.Disputes Resolution Committee.–

It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution committee comprising of 4 members each representing the Employers’Federation of Ceylon and the Ceylon Estate Staff Union will be formed. Such committee will meet once in three monthsto resolve any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisionsof this agreement, if required. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice.

24.Duty Leave.–

1.Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union willbe permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.

2.Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union,as specified in sub clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.

3.By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leavein any one year.

4.By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the union shall be allowed twelve days dutyleave which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceedtwelve days in any one year.

5.By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the union shall be allowed twelve days duty leavewhich may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by thesetwo office bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.

Part II

1.The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement morefully described in Schedule I to this Agreementundertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation / sub-leasing ofestates / divisions/factories prior to such situations.

2.Electricity.–

Free electricity would be granted to memebers of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying inthe past.

Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior Staff-140 unitsJunior Staff-100 units

Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)

Senior Staff-170 units Junior Staff-130 units

Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201725A

Kerosene – Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates / divisions without

electricity

3.Tea Allowance .– The employer shall provide free tea, on the followig basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits

in those categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

Senior staff–2 Kgs

Junior staff–1 1/2 Kgs

The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP

whichever is Lower.

Staff members who had been entitled to three or more Kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled to

purchase a maximum of 3Kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June, 2003.

4.Death Grant.–

1.With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 75,000/- as funeral

expenses.

2.The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month

upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.

3.If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months

salary within one month of the death of the staff member.

5.Medical Aid Scheme.–

1.The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers’ contribution shall be 10%.

2. A staff member who is a member of the Staff Medical Aid Scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in

the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her

employement from the estate.

25. Interpretation.–

Word Meaning

UnionMeans the union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.

Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.

Employer Means a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.

Week Means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.

Year Means a continuous period of 12 months.

Gender A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

26AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017

In Witness whereof the parties afore said have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.201727A

SCHEDULE I

Agalawatte Plantations PLC

Agarapatana Plantations Limited

Balangoda Plantations PLC

Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC

Elpitiya Plantations PLC

Elkaduwa Plantations Limited

Hapugastenne Plantations PLC

Horana Plantations PLC

Kahawatte Plantations PLC

Kegalle Plantations PLC

Kelani Velley Plantations PLC

Kotagala Plantations PLC

Madulsima Plantations PLC

Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC

Maskeliya Plantations PLC

Maturata Plantations Limited

Namunukula Plantations PLC

Pussellawa Plantations Limited

Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC

Udapussellawa Plantations PLC

Watawala Plantations PLC

SCHEDULE II

CLERICAL STAFF SALARY RANGES

Junior ClerkRs. 24,100.00 - Rs. 42,100.00Annual Increment450

ClerkRs. 24,350.00 - Rs. 46,350.00Annual Increment550

Senior ClerkRs. 24,600.00 - Rs. 51,600.00Annual Increment675

Administrative OfficerRs. 25,850.00 - Rs. 67,850.00Annual Increment1050

Special GradeRs. 31,100.00 - Rs. 85,100.00Administrative OfficerAnnual Increment1350

08-611

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.