==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'28PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 28.09.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2090$38 - 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'09'28No. 2090/38 - FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

CUSTOMS ORDINANCE ACT, No. 83 OF 1988

BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 103B(1) of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235), as amended, I,Mangala Samaraweera, Minister of Finance and Mass Media of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do by thisOrder promulgate regulations for the purpose of appointing Inland Clearance Depots for Less than Container Loads(LCL). These regulations shall come to effective from October 01, 2018.

MANGALA SAMARAWEERA,Minister of Finance and Mass Media.Ministry of Finance and Mass Media,Colombo 01,September 28, 2018.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as Regulations for Appointment of Inland Clearance Depots (ICD) for Less thanContainer Loads (LCL).

2. Purpose of these regulations is to facilitate increasing international trade flow and to reduce congestions in thePorts/Airports and also to allow the Less than Container Loads (hereinafter called and referred to as “LCL”)clearance operation in Sri Lanka by establishing Inland Clearance Depots (hereinafter called and referred to as“ICD”) to handle the import, export and transhipment including Multi Country Consolidation (MCC) involvingLCL.

3. Appointing of the ICD shall be done by the Director General, Sri Lanka Cutsoms under his hand in accordancewith Section 103A of the Customs Ordinance and operating instructions and guidelines to be issued by theDirector General of Customs (DGC) in terms of the Customs Ordinance.

4. Approval for establishment of such ICD shall be granted by the Minister in charge of subject of Finance and to bepublished in the Gazette by Sri Lanka Customs.

1A PG 4320 — 532 (11/2018)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'28PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 28.09.20182A

5. In order to establish and ICD, the following eligibility criteria shall be fulfilled.

5.1 The ICD facility shall have the economic viability for the management and attractive to users. The prospectiveICD operators shall comply with the TEU traffic availability of 500 TEUs per month (Two Way) businessto be proven to the satisfaction of the Director General of Customs.

5.2 Minimum of investment shall be a sum of Rs. 500 mn.

5.3 Land Requirements

The minimum area requirement for establishment of an ICD, including land and warehouse area shall be125,000 square feet.

5.4 Design and Lay-Out of an ICD

a) The design and layout should be the most modern state-of-art equipped with mechanical/electricalfacilities of international standards. Key to a good lay-out is the smooth flow of containers, cargoand vehicles through the ICD. The design and layout should take into account initial volume of business,estimated volume in next 10 years’ and the type of facilities exporters would require. The initial layout should be capable of adaptation to changing circumstances. The design broadly should encompassfeatures like (rail) siding, container yard, gate house and security features, boundary wall (fencing),roads, pavements, office building and public amenities. The track length and number of tracks shouldbe adequate to handle rakes and for stalling where relevant.

b) The perimeter fencing and lighting must meet the standards required by Customs authorities. Thegate being the focal point of site security should be properly planned.

c) The administration building is the focal point of production and processing of all documentationrelating to handling of cargo and containers and its size will be determined by the needs of potentialoccupants. Fixed provisions should be made for sanitation facilities and possibly a food servicefacility.

d) The entire premises including the warehouse and all entry and exit points should installed with Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) surveillance systems and it should be connected to the Sri Lanka Customsheadquarters.

e) Availability of proper record keeping system on accepted accounting standards acceptable to DirectorGeneral of Customs/Director of Customs (Industries and Services Directorate).

f) Gate Complex with separate entry and exit.

g) Adequate parking space for vehicles awaiting entry to the premises.

h) Boundary wall according to standards specified by Customs.

i) Computerized processing of documents with capability of being linked to ASYCUDA World systemof Sri Lanka Customs.

j) Computerized Cargo Inventory Control System accepted by Sri Lanka Customs Ministry of Finance,should be used.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'28PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 28.09.20183A

5.5 Equipping the ICD

The ICD would select most modern handling equipment for loading, unloading of containers from railflats, chassis, their stacking, movement, cargo handling, stuffing/de-stuffing etc.

5.6 Location of ICD

ICD should be located within a reasonable distance of an international port or an airport and proximity tothe users to facilitate the movement and handling of cargo on 24 hours in all seven (07) days of the week.Further, access roads from Port/Airport to the ICD should be suitable for heavy container moment. Reductionin total transport cost shall be a prime criterion for location of the ICD.

5.7 Application Processing Fee

An application processing fee of Rs. 100,000/- shall be charged. This shall be credited to the consolidatedfund of the Government of Sri Lanka.

5.8 Annual License Fee for ICD

A license fee of Rs. 500,000/- shall be charged. This shall be credited to the consolidated fund of theGovernment of Sri Lanka.

12- 165

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.