==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 2121$1 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 29 jeks i÷od - 2019'04'29No. 2121/1 - MONDAY APRIL 29, 2019

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

N. B.- The Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 2120/1 ends with No. 2120/30This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A - G 29756 — 382 ( 04/2019)

L.D.CF 1/64

THE PUBLIC SECURITY ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 40)

REGULATIONS made by the President under section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,President.

Colombo,April 29, 2019.

Regulations

The Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and Powers)Regulations, No. 1 of 2019 published in the GazetteExtraordinary No. 2120/5, of April 22, 2019 are hereby amended as follows:-

(1) in regulation 2-

(a)in the definition of the expression “Attorney-General” by the substitution for the words, “Senior StateCounsel, State Counsel or” of the words “Senior State Counsel, State Counsel or”;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.20192A

(b)in the definition of the expression “terrorism”-

(i)by the re lettering of paragraph (j) as paragraph (k); and

(ii)by the insertion immediately before paragraph (k) of the following:-

“(j)causing serious risk to the health and safety of the public or a section thereof; or”.

(2)in paragraph (13) of regulation 15-

(a)in subparagraph (b), by the substitution for the words “as aforesaid;”, of the words “as aforesaid and alsotransmission of any material or other content through any telecommunication apparatus;”; and

(b)by the addition immediately after subparagraph (d) of that paragraph, of the following :-

“ (e)“ telecommunication apparatus” shall have the same meaning as in the Sri Lanka TelecommunicationAct, No. 25 of 1991.”.

(3) in paragraph (1) of regulation 27 -

(a)by the insertion immediately before paragraph (a) of that regulation, of the following:-

“(a)be a member or cadre of;

(b)provide leadership to;”;

(b)by the re lettering of subparagraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of that paragraph, as subparagraphs (c),(d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of that paragraph respectively.

(4) immediately after regulation 32, by the insertion of the following new regulations which shall have effect asregulation 32A and regulation 32B respectively :-

32A. (1) (a) No person shall wear in any public place any garment, clothing or suchother material concealing the full face which will in any manner cause any hindrance tothe identification of a person.

(b) For the purpose of this paragraph -

“public place” includes any public road, any building, any enclosed or openarea, any vehicle or any other mode of transportation;

“full face” means the whole face of a person including the ears;

“public road” includes any roadway over a public bridge, any pavement, drain,embankment or ditch belonging or appertaining to a public road.

(2) The prohibition as specified in paragraph (1), shall not apply if such garment,clothing or such other material is prescribed and authorized by or under any writtenlaw.

“ Prohibition towear anygarment,clothing or othermaterialconcealing thefull face

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.20193A

(3) Failure to comply with the provisions of paragraph (1) shall be a contraventionof these regulations.

32B. (1) No person shall engage in preaching religious or any extremist or radicalideologies which glorifies, encourages, promotes or espouses terrorism or specifiedterrorist activity.

(2) No person shall employ or engage the services of any non- citizen as aninstructor, teacher, lecturer or in any other manner involved in instructing, teaching orlecturing religious or any extremist or radical ideologies which glorifies, encourages,promotes or espouses terrorism or specified terrorist activity or any educational activityconnected to such religious, extremist or radical ideologies which glorifies, encourages,promotes or espouses terrorism or specified terrorist activity.

(3) Failure to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be acontravention of these regulations.”.

(5) in regulation 50, immediately after paragraph (2), by the addition of the following paragraph :-

“ (3) Any GramaNiladari who has received any information of any offence under any emergency regulationshall forthwith give such information to the nearest police station.”.

(6) in paragraph (3) of regulation 75, by the repeal of subparagraph (e) thereof and the substitution therefor ofthe following:-

“ (e) soliciting, collecting or offering support,monetary or otherwise as specified above, for the purposesof the organization; or”.

(7) in the Schedule to these regulations, immediately after item (k), by the addition of the following item:-

“(l) all services, work or labour of any description necessary or required to be done by or in connectionwith the Sri Lanka Ports Authority established by section 3 of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No.51 of 1979.”.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Prohibition toengage inreligious,extremist orradicalideologies