==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2112$10 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 25 jeks i÷od - 2019'02'25

No. 2112/10 - MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2019

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4399 — 12 (02/2019)

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

PROVINCIAL COUNCIL NOTIFICATIONS

SOUTHERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

Co-operative employees commission precept of the

Southern Provincial Council

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Trade of the Southern Provincial Council do hereby notifythat the draft of the co-operative employees commission Precept no...... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council publishedhereunder will be presented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its publication inthis Gazette. Any person who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions of the saidprecept, shall forward the same to me within the said period.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA

ARIYATHILAKA

MinisterSouthern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture,Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water Supply

and Drainage, Food Supply and Distribution,

Trade and Cooperative Development.

23 Day of January 2019,Office of the Minister of Trade,Galle.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

2 A

Short title and dateof operation

Minister to exemptcooperativesocieties from theapplication of thisAct.

Establishment of theCo-operativeEmployeesCommission

CO - OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION OF THE

SOUTHERN PROVINCE S TATUTE

A Statute to provide for the establishment or a Co-operative Employees Commission of the SouthernProvince; to make provisions in respect of employees of Co-operative Societies in the Southern Provinceand to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

1. (1)This Statute may be cited as the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Southern ProvinceStatute, No. of 2019

(2)The provisions of the Co-operative Employees Commission Act, No 12 of 1972 in so far as theyare inconsistent with the provisions of this Statue, remain suspended and inoperative in theSouthern Province.

2.The Minister may, in consultation with the Provincial Commissioner and the Commission, byOrder published in the Gazette, exempt from the application of the provisions of this Statute-

(a)any such co-operative society as shall be specified therein, or(b)any such class of co-operative societies as shall be so specified.

PART 1

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION OF THE

SOUTHERN PROVINCE

3.(1) A Commission known as the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Southern Province

(in this Statute referred to as the "Commission") is hereby established.

(2)The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (1) be a body corporate

with perpectual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

4.The Commission shall, consist of three members appointed by the minster taking into consideration the provisions of section 5 and those members shall be Attorneys - at Law who shall notbe over 65 years of age and have been engaged in legal profession at least 10 years.

5.A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of the

Commission, if he —

(a)Is an employee or a past employee of a co-operative society;

(b)Is a person who is a member of any body of persons whether corporate or unincorporated which has as its objects or one of its objects, the regulation of salaries,wages or conditions of services of any category of employees of co- co-operativesocieties;

(c)Is a person who is an officer of a co-operative society;

(d)Is or becomes, a member of Parliament or any Provincial Council or any local authority;

(e)Is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(f)Is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country, found or declared to beof unsound mind;

(g)Is serving, or has served, a sentence of imprisonment on a criminal offence;

(h)Is directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any contract madeby or on behlf of the Commission

(i)Is a person who, has been declared an insolvent or un discharged bankrupt under any

Constitution of theCommission

Disqualification forbeing a member ofthe Commission

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country;

(j)has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge byhim of his functions as a member of the Commission; or

(k)absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Commission.

6.(1) The Minister shall, appoint one of the members of the Commission as the Chairman of the

Commission (hereinafter referred to as "the Chairman") and another member as the ViceChairman.

(2) The Chairman shall be responsible for the preparation of the agenda for the meetings of the

Commission and the submission for the consideration of the Commission of policies andmeasures considered by him to be necessary for the purpose of carrying out the principlesand provisions of this Statute.

(3) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister and

such resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(4) The Minister may for reasons remove the Chairman from the office of Chairman.

(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) and (4) the term of office of the Chairman shall be

the period of his membership of the Commission

(6) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office due to ill

health, other infirmity, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint any other appointed member to act as Chairman in addition to his normalduties as an appointed member.

7.(1)The Commission may delegate any of the powers and functions of the Commission to theChairman.

(2)The Chairman shall exercise the powers, duties or functions so delegated, subject to thegeneral or special direction of the Commission.

8.(1) The Minister shall, prior to appointing a person as a member, satisfy himself that suchperson has no financial or other interest in the affairs of the Commission, as is likely to affectprejudicially the discharging of his functions as a member of the Commission.

(2)The Minister shall also satisfy himself from time to time, that no member of the Commissionhas since being appointed acquirded any such interest.

(3)(a)A member of the Commission who is in anyway, directly or indirectly, interested in anycontract made or proposed to be made by the Commission shall disclose the nature ofhis interest at a meeting of the Commission, an

(b)such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the meetings of the Commission andthe member shall not participate in any deliberation or decision of the Commission withregard to that Contract.

9.(1) A member of the Commission may resign his office by letter addressed to the Minister and

such resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned remove a member from office.

Commission todelegate its powersto Chairman

Financial interest ofthe members

Chairman of theCommission

Provisions relatingto members

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

4 A

(3) (a)Where a member of the Commission dies, resigns or is removed from office,The Ministershall, having regard to the provisions of sections 4 and 5, appoint another member inhis place.

(b)The minister shall appoint a member for a vacancy in paragraph (a) as soon as possible.

(4) A member appointed under subsection (3) shall hold office for the unexpired period of the

term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(5) Where a member is temporarily unable to perform the duties of the office due to ill health or

absence from Sri Lanka or for any other reason, the Minister may having regard to theprovisions of sections 4 and 5 appoint another person to act in his place.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of these sections, the term of office of an appointed

member of the Commission shall be three years and such member shall be eligible for re-appointment unless removed on disciplinary grounds.

10.(1)The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the Commission. In the absence of theChairman from any such meeting the Vice Chairman shall preside at such meeting.

(2)(a) All matters for decision by the Commission shall be dealt with at a meeting of theCommission and shall be determined by the majority of the members present and voting.

(b)In the event of an equality of votes on any question considered at a meeting themember presiding at the meeting shall have a casting vote in addition to hisoriginal vote.

(c)All decisions of the Commission supported by reasons shall be in writing andthe seal of the Commission be affixed thereto.

(3)(a)Any member of the Commission may by written notice, request the Chairman tocall a meeting and the Chairman shall not otherwise than for justifiable reasonsrefuse to do so.

(b)The Secretary appointed under section 25 shall summon all meetings of theCommission.

(4)No act decision or proceeding of the Commission shall be invalidated by reason only ofthe existence of a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of amember thereof.

(5)The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall be two members.

(6)Subject to the provisions of this section, the Commission may regulate the procedurein regard to meetings of the commission and the transaction of business of such meetings

11.(1)The Commission may establish committees to assist it in the exercise of its powers or

performance of its functions or duties consisting of such number of members as it maydeem necessary.

(2)The Commission may delegate any of its powers, functions or duties to a committee,

but shall not be divested of any power, function or duty which it may have delegatedto a committee.

Meetings of theCommission

Committees of theCommission

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

Powers of theCommission

(3)The Commission may amend or revoke any decision made by such committee.

12.(1)The seal of the Commission shall be as determined by the Commission.

(2)The seal of the Commission-

(a)may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the Commission;

(b)shall be in the custody of such person or persons as the Commission maydetermine; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or document without the sanction of theCommission and except in the presence of two members of the Commission, bothof whom shall sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(3)The Commission shall maintain a register of documents to which seal of the Commission

has been affixed.

13.The C hairman. Vice Chairman, and the other member of the Commission shall be paid such 1remuneration at such rates as may be determined by the Minister, on the recommend action ofthe chief secretary and with the concurrence of the Provincial Minister assigned the subjectof Finance.

14.(1)The members of the Commission shall, take an oath or make an affirmation in the form setout in the Schedule to this Statute, on their first appointment.

(2)The Secretary to the Commission, and such of the other officers of the Commission asmay be required so to do by the Chairman, shall take an oath or make an affirmation in theform set out in the Schedule to this Statute on their first appointment.

PART II

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

15.(1) The powers of the Commission shall be :-

(a)to determine all matters relating to methods of recruitment, terms and conditionsof employment of employees of a co-operative society, and the principles to befollowed by such societies in making appointments and making promotions fromone post in a co-operative society to another post in the same society;

(b)to conduct examinations for recruitment as employees of co-operative societiesor to appoint boards of examiners for the purpose of conducting suchexaminations and to charge fees from candidates presenting themselves forexaminations;

(c)to determine the qualifications necessary for appointment to any post of acooperative society, to fix the scales of salaries to be attached to any such postin any class or grade, to revise or adjust such scales of salaries, from time to time,in consultation with the Provincial Commissioner;

(d)to establish such consultative machinery as the Commission may deem necessaryto assist it in determining the remuneration and conditions of service of co-operative employees,

The seal

Remuneration ofmembers

Taking of oathsby members andofficers of theCommission

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

6 A

(e)to order co-operative societies to pay salaries in accordance with the salary scales fixedby the Commission for any post or posts in any class or grade;

(f)to determine the procedure or procedures to be followed by any co-operative society inexercising its rights of disciplinary action against its employees, to call upon anyco-operative society to commence disciplinary inquiries against its employees and tocomplete such inquiries within a time stipulated by the Commission, and to hear appealsarising out of any disciplinary orders made by any co-operative society;

(g)to require any co-operative society to keep and maintain such register or records relatingto employees of that society, in the form and manner as may be prescribed;

(h)to require any co-operative society to furnish before a specified date such prescribedrecords, files, other documents or information as the Commission may require in respectof any employee of that society;

(i)to appoint a panel or panels of officers to make such inquiries as are necessary in respectof appeals that may be referred by the Commission to such panel or panels to reportthereon to the Commission,

(j)to require any co-operative society to carry out such instructions, including instructionsrelating to reinstatement, as may be given by the Commission in regard to any employeeof such society, where the conduct of the employee has been the subject of an inquiryand the employee has appealed to the Commission against the decision of the society,

(k)to determine the general principles in accordance with which gratuity or other benefitsmay be granted to employees on the termination of their services,

(l)to advice the Minister, in consultation with the Provincial Commissioner, in regard to theexemption of any co-operative society or class of co-operative societies from the operationof this Statue,

(m)give such directions to any cooperative society or an employ of such society, as theCommission may deem necessary; and

(n)to direct any relevant co-operative societies to carry out such instructions as may begiven by the Commission after hearing an appeal made to the ommission against atransfer of a co-operative employee carried out under section 19 of this Statute.

(2)In the exercise of the powers vested in the Commission by subsection (1), the Commission maymodify, vary or revise or set aside any decision or determinations made by the Commission.

PART III

CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES AND THEIR EMPLOYEES

16.(1) Every Co-operative society, and any employee of such society, shall comply with thedirections as may be given by the Commission under section 15.

(2)Any employer of co-operative society who fails to appear before an inquiry or an officialnecessity of a Commission shall face an inquiry conducted by the Commission.

Co-operativesocieties andtheir employeesto be subject todirections of theCommission

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

Decisions anddirections ofCommission tobe binding onco-operativesocieties

Salaries ofemployees ofco-operativesocieties

Transfer ofemployees of co-operativesocieties

17.Every decision or direction of the Commission in the discharge and exercise of its powersand functions under this Statute, shall be binding on all co-operative societies or anyemployee of such societies.

18.Every co-operative society shall pay, out of its funds, the salaries and other allowances, if any,to its employees.

19.(1)A co-operative society may transfer any employee of such society from anyone of its work places to any other of its work places, and where such transferis made for any reasons other than on disciplinary grounds, such transfer shallnot adversely affect the emoluments of any such employee.

(2)The Commission may have the power to transfer any employee of a co-operativesociety to another co-operative society as an employee of the latter society atthe joint request of twoemployees holding posts of similar status, providedthat the concurrence of the respective employers has been previouslyobtained.

20.(1)No employee of a co-operative society shall be dismissed or otherwise bepunished by such co-operative society except in accordance with the provisionsof this Statute or any regulation or rule made thereunder.

(2)Nothing in the proceeding provisions of this section shall be deemed to renderit unlawful for any co-operative society to continue and complete in accordancewith the provisions that were in force prior to the date of coming into operationof this Statute, any disciplinary proceedings already pending against any of itsemployees in respect of any misconduct or breach’of discipline or other causeof complaint which may have occurred or arisen before such date.

21.(1)A co-operative society shall not require any employee to furnish by way ofsecurity an amount in excess of such sum as the Minister may prescribe byregulations.

(2)A Co-operative society shall invest in a state bank in the name of the societyany security furnished under sub section (1) and any interest accruing thereonshall be paid to the employee.

22.Every co-operative society shall -

(a)keep and maintain the prescribed registers or records relating to itsemployees

(b)furnish to the Commission such returns or reports relating to its employees

as may be prescribed or such information as the Commission may, fromtime to time, require; and

(c)permit any member or servant of the Commission authorized in that behalf

to enter any of its offices and to inspect and take copies of any books,accounts, records or other documents kept therein.

Dismissal andpunishment ofemployees ofco-operativesocieties

Securityfurnished byemployees ofco-operativesocieties

Duties ofCo-operativessociety inrespect of itsemployees

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

8 A

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts

23.Every co-operative society and every employee of such society shall contribute periodically tothe Employees ' Provident Fund and the Employees' Trust Fund such amounts as may be requiredby any written law.

24.Any co-operative society may, in the interests of its efficient operation-

(a)engage on a contractual basis, the services of an expert or any specialist on such termsand conditions as the cooperative society may determine, with prior approval of theCommission; or

(b)engage casual or daily paid employees or employees paid on a piece rate basis;

Provided however, that such employees shall not be employed for a period of over thirtydays without the concurrence of the Commission

PART IV

SECRETARY AND THE STAFF OF THE COMMISSION

25.There shall be a Secretary of the Commission, who shall be an officer of the Sri Lankaadministrative service.

PART V

FINANCE

26.The expenses of the Commission shall be paid out of the moneys provided for the purpose by the

Annual Financial Statement of the Provincil Council of the .Southern Province.

27.The Commission may open and maintain any account with any bank as it may think appropriate

and such accounts shall be operated in accordance with prevailing financial regulations of theProvincial Council pertaining to financial transactions of public corporations.

28.(1) The financial year of the Commission shall be the calendar year.

(2)The Commission shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income andexpenditure, asset and liabilities and all other transactions of the Commission.

(3)For the purpose of presenting a true and fair view of the financial performance and financialcondition of the Commission, the Commission shall a prepare the accounts in accordancewith the Provincial Council financial Rules.

(4)The Provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of the account ofpublic Corporations shall apply to the audit of the accounts of tlie Commission.

29.Moneys belonging to the Commission may, with the approval of the Provincial Minister andwith the concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of finance, be invested in governmentapproved securities.

30.(1)The Commission may, with the written consent of the Minister and the Provincial Ministerassigned with the subject of Finance and in accordance with the terms of any general

Engagement ofcontractual casual ordaily paid empolyees

Provident Fund andthe Employees'Trust Fund

Secretary of theCommission

Commission tomaintain accounts

Financial Provisions

Investment of funds

Borrowing powers ofthe Commission

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

Minister to issuedirections.

Declaration ofSecrecy.

Delegation ofpowers of theCommission.

authority given, borrow or obtain on credit terms such sums as the Commission may requirefor meeting the obligations of the Commission.

(2)The aggregate of the amount outstanding in respect of any loans raised by the Commissionunder this section shall not at any time exceed such amount as may be determined by theMinister.

PART VI

GENERAL

31.(1)The Minister may from time to time issue to the Commission such general or special directionsin writing as to the exercise and performance of its powers and functions and it shall be theduty of the Commission to give effect to such directions,

(2)The Minister may direct the Commission to furnish to him in such form as he may require,returns, accounts or any other information relating to the work of the Commission and itshall be the duty of the Commission to due effect to such directions.

32.(1)The Commission shall within six months of the end of each financial year, submit to the

Minister an annual report of the activities carried on by the Commission during thatfinancial year, and cause a copy each of the following documents relating to that year tobe attached to the report -

(a)the audited Accounts of the Commission for the year;

(b)a report of proposed activities for the year immediately following the year towhich such report and accounts relate.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the report and documents submitted under Subsection (1)

before the Provincial Council within six months from the date of receipt of such report.

33.Every member of the Commission and all officers and employees of the Commission shall, beforeentering upon his duties, sign a declaration pledging to observe strict secrecy in respect of allmatters connected with the affairs of the Commission, which has come to his knowledge in theperformance or exercise of his powers and functions under this Act and shall by such declarationpledge himself not to disclose any such matter, except -

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)for the purpose of exercising or performing the powers, functions and dutiesunder this Statute or any other written law.

34.(1)The Commission may in writing and subject to such conditions as may be specified therein,delegate to any officer of the Commission any of its powers, functions or duties and anysuch officer shall exercise or perform such power, function or duty in the name and on behalf,of the Commission.

(2) The Commission, may, notwithstanding any delegation made under subsection (1), by itselfexercise or perform any power, function or duty so delegated and may at any time revoke anysuch delegation.

Commission tosubmit a report.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

10A

Commissiondeemed to be aScheduleinstitution.

Regulations.

Officers andemployees of theCommission deemedto be public officers.

35.The Secretary and the officers and employees of the Commission shall be deemed to bepublic officers within the meaning of and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

36.The Commission shall be deemed to be a Scheduled Institution within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Bribery Act and the provisions of the Act shall be constructed accordingly.

37.(1)The Minister may make regulations in respect of all matters required by this Statuteto be prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorized by this Statute tobe made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred bySubsection (1), the Minister may, in consultation with the Commission, makeregulations in respect of all or any of the following matters-

(a)the fees to be charged under this Statute,

(b)the registers or records relating to employees of a Co-operative society,which shall be maintained under Section 15(g);

(c)the residential qualification required to be maintained in order to beappointed to any post in a co-operative society.

(d)the amount of security to be furnished by an employee of a Co-operativeSociety;

(e)conduct of examinations for recruitment as an employee of a Co-operativeSociety;

(f)the recruitment procedure, appointment, promotion, transfer, resignationand termination of services of employees of a Co-operative Society;

(g)the terms and conditions of employment of such employees and the salaryscales, payment of allowances and gratuities, the grant of advances, promotion, leave, the interdiction of officers, dismissals or the imposition of anyother form of punishment to such employees and any appeal therefrom;

(h)such other matters relating to the terms of employment, or the conditions ofservice, of such employees as are deemed necessary.

(3)Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4)(a)Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within six months after itspublication in the Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council forapproval.

(b) Any such regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

(5)Notification of the date on which any regulation made by the Minister is deemed to beso rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

38.(1)The Commission may make rules in respect of all or any of the following matters -

(a)the matters in respect of which the Commission is required or authorized tomake rules under any other provision of this Statute;

(b)the meetings of the Commission and the procedure to be followed at suchmeetings; and

(c)any other matter connected with the affairs of the Commission.

(2)Every rule made by the Commission shall be published in the Gazette.

39.(1) Any Co-operative society or any employee thereof-

(a)which or who contravenes the provisions of this Statute; or

(b)which or who willfully neglects or refuses or fails to do any act requiredby the Commission to be done, or to furnish any information required forthe purposes of this Statute by the Commission or other duly authorisedperson;

(c)which or who willfully makes a false return or furnishes false information;

(d)which or who obstructs, without any justifiable or lawful basis, any personacting in the exercise of his powers under this Statute or any regulationmade thereunder;

(e)acting under the authority of this Statute, behaves or conducts himself ina vexatious or provocative manner, while exercising or discharging anypower, function or duty under this Statute;

(f)which or who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act or any regultionmade thereunder, or fails to comply with any direction given to him underthe provisions of this Act,

commits an offence under this Statute.

(2)Every co-operative society or employee which or who commits any offence undersubsection (1) shall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceedingtwenty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or toboth such fine and such imprisonment.

(3)Where any offence under this Statute is committed by a co-operative society, everyofficer of that society shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he provesthat the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all duediligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

(4)On the conviction of any co-operative society for failure to carry out any suchinstructions given by the Commission as requires the reinstatement of any employee,such co-operative society shall be liable-

Power of theCommission tomake rules

Offences andpenalties

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

12A

Unauthoriseddisclosure ofinformationprohibited.

Interference withthe Commission.

(a)to pay, in addition to any punishment that may be imposed on such co-operativesociety under subsection (2) a fine of five hundred rupees for each day on whichthe failure is continued after conviction thereof; and

(b)to pay such employee the remuneration which would have been payable to himif he had been in such service on each such day and on each day of the periodcommencing on the date on which he should have been reinstated in serviceaccording to the instructions of the Commission and ending on the date of theconviction of such co-operative society, computed at the rate of salary or wagesto which he would have been entitled if his services had not been terminated.

Any sum which a co-operative society is liable to pay under paragraph (b) of this subsection may be recovered on the order of the Court by which it was convicted as if itwere a fine imposed on it by that court and the amount so recovered shall be paid to theemployee.

40.Every person who, otherwise than in the course of his duty, directly or indirectly, by himselfor by any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence anydecision of the Commission or any member thereof shall be guilty of an offence, an shall, onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding twentythousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding sixmonths or to both suchfine and sue imprisonment.

41.No member of the Commission, nor the Secretary of the Commission, nor any member of thestaff of the Commission nor any other person shall publish or disclose to any person,otherwise than in the exercise of his official functions, the contents of any document,

communication or information whatsoever which has come to his notice m the course of his duties.

42.(1)The Co-operative Employees Commission of the Southern Province Statute No. 01 of1998 is hereby repealed.

(2)Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Statute-

(a)every regulation, rule, order, notice, guideline or direction issued, requirementimposed, determination or delegation made under the repealed Statute and inforce on the date immediately preceding the date of coming into force of thisStatute shall with effect from the date of coming into force of this Statute bedeemed to be a regulation, rule, order, notice, guideline, direction, requirement,determination or delegation issued, imposed or made, as the case may be, underthe provisions of this Statute;

(b)all property movable and immovable belonging to the Co-operative EmployeesCommission established under the repealed Statute on the date immediatelypreceding the date of coming into force of this Statute shall with effect from thedate of coming into force of this Statute, vest in and be deemed to be theproperty of the Co-operative Employees Commission established under thisStatute;

(c)all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, matters or things which have beeninstituted by or against the Co-operative Employees Commission establishedunder the repealed Statute and which are pending on the date immediatelypreceding the date of coming into force of this Statute shall with effect from the

Repeals andsavings.

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

date of the coming into force of this Statute, be deemed to be suits, prosecu-tions, actions, proceedings, matters or things which have been instituted by oragainst the Co-operative Employees Commission established under this Statuteand be heard by that court;

(d)any decree, order or award entered or made in favour of or against theCo-operative Employees Commission established under the repealed Statute byany court or tribunal or other body in any action, matter, proceeding or thingshall with effect from the date of coming into force of this Statute, be deemed tobe a decree, order or award entered or made in favour of or against theCo-operative Employees Commission established under this Statute and may beenforced accordingly;

(e)all officers and servants in the permanent employment of the Co-operativeEmployees Commission established under aforesaid Statute on the dateimmediately preceding the date of coming into force of this Statute shall, witheffect from the date of coming into force of this Statute be deemed to officersand servants in the permanent employment of the Co-operative EmployeesCommission established under this Statute; and

(f) all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred, all contracts and agreementsexecuted or enforced into and all matters and things engaged or agreed to bedone by, with or for the Co-operative Employees Commission established underrepealed Statute and in force on the date immediately preceding the date ofcoming into force of this Statute shall with effect from the date of coming intoforce of this Statute, be deemed to be debts, obligations, assets and liabilitiesincurred, all contracts and agreements executed or enforced into and all mattersand things : engaged or agreed to be done by, with or for the Co-operativeEmployees Commission established under this Statute.

43.In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires -

"Co-operative society" means a co-operative society registered underco-operative societies Act No. 05 of 1972 but does not include any co-operativesociety in respect of which an order under Section 2 of this statute is in force.

"district" means any administrative district withm the Southern Province;

"employee" means a person who is employed by any co-operative society andis paid salaries and other emoluments by such co-operative society out of itsfunds, but does not include an officer;

"employer" means any co-operative society which pays out of its funds thesalaries and other emoluments to its employees;

"Minister" means the Provincial Minister to whom the subject of co-operativedevelopment in the Southern Province is assigned;

Society officer-' includes every person who is President, Vice President, Secretary,

Treasurer, appointed by a general meeting.

''prescribe'' means prescribed by regulations;

Province means the Southern Province ;

Interpretation

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'25PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 25.02.2019

14A

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistence.

"Provincial Commissioner" means the Provincial Commissioner of Co-operativeDevelopment and Registrar of Co-operative Societies of the Southern Provinceappointed under Section 2 of the Co-operative Societies Statute No.......

"Provincial Council" means the Southern Provincial Council established underArticle 154A of the Constitution.

44.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this statute, theSinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE

Oath or affirmation of member of the Commission

I}....................................... having been appointed the Chairman/member of the Co-operativeEmployees Commission of the Southern Province do swear/solemnly and sincerely affirm that Iwill, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will discharge the functions of the office of Chairman/member of the Co-operative Employees Commission of the Southern Province and that I will not,directly or indirectly, reveal any matter relating to such functions to any person otherwise than in thecourse of duty.

Sworn/Affirmed before me this .......... day of......................................

......................................................

Signature of Affirmant/Deponent

...........................................

Judge of the Provincial High Court.

03-513

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Section 14