==== BLOCKS ==== 

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Notice of Hon. Governor of Northern Province

01. AN inquiry to be conducted under Section 184 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255), read together with Section 02 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.

02. I, the Governor of the Northern Provinc, in terms of the powers vested in me by Section 184 of the Urban Council Ordinance (Chapter 255) read together with Section 02 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act. No. 12 of 1989, have appointed Mr. Kandiah Ariyanayagam, Retired District Judge, as the Commissioner to inquire into examine and, report within three months on the administration and affairs of the Point Pedro Urban Council, in terms of Section 184(1A) of the said Ordinance.

03. Matters / Charges to be inquired into I. Relocation of the New Vegetable Market to the upper floor of old market

i. At the Council meeting held on 30.07.2025, under Resolution No. C79/2025 it was decided that the new vegetable market should be relocated to the center of the town. A technical committee, headed by a Chartered Engineer and consisting of social activists and intellectuals from the relevant ward, was to conduct a feasibility study regarding relocating the market to the ground floor of the old market building. It was further decided that if such relocation was not feasible, the market should be moved back to the upper floor where the old market had previously operated. Although an expert committee report was submitted on 12.11.2025, the Chartered Engineer was not included as a member of the committee, which is country to the council resolution.

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

1A - PG 7572 - 04 (03/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

අංංක 2479/56 - 2026 මාාර්තු මස 12 වැැනි බ්‍රහස්පතින්දාා - 2026.03.12No. 2479/56 - THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2026

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙˤෂ

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'12Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.20262A

ii. Despite the council resolution, there was a delay of more than three months in obtaining the expert committee report.

iii. By letter dated 11.11.2025, the commissioner of Local Government instructed that further action regarding the relocation of the vegetable market be suspended until a comprehensive review and a permanent feasible decision could be made. The Commissioner further instructed that the report of the committee headed by a Chartered Engineer, as decided by the Council, should be obtained and an independent committee report with the approval of the Hon. Governor should also be obtained. Also the opinions of market traders and the general public should be sought. Until such steps were completed, arrangements were to be made so that Traders could conduct their business without interruption, and the public could use the market without incovenience. However these instructions have not been implemented.

iv. The Charman of the Point Pedro Urban Council intentionally disregard the instructions issued by the Commissioner of Local Government. He personally placed a notice at the main entrance of the new market announcing its closure and instructed the vendors to vacate the premises and cease trading activities.

v. As a result of relocating business activities to the upper floor of the old market, traders have suffered serious financial losses and are unable to sustain their livelihoods. Accordingly, 40 vegetable vendors submitted a written request to the Council Secretary on 16.03.2017. However the new market building constructed using funds from the LDSP scheme and council funds amounting to approximately Rs. 72 million, remains unused.

vi. Although the Council Chairman stated that the vegertable market was temporarily relocated to the upper floor due to rainwater stagnation in the new market building, no effective measures have been takento resolve the rainwater stagnation problem during the rainy season.

vii. The construction works of the new vegetable market were carried out through public procurement procedures advertised in newspapers. At that time, the current Chairman, council members residing within the administrative limits of the point Pedro Urban Council, the Merchants Association and the vendors were all aware of the project yet on objections or complaints were raised during the construction stage. However objections have now been raised after the completion of the new market building.

viii. The Council Chairman called for public tenders to lease the new vegetable market for the year 2026. At the Tender Board meeting held on 27.10.2025, The Council Chairman himself acted as the Chairman on the Tender Board and collected one-third of the tender amount, Rs. 734,000.00, as a diposit from the successful tender, which was subsequently deposited. Thereafter the market operations were moved to the upper floor of the old market building.

II. Road Repair Work Connecting point Pedro College Road and Thampasiddy Road

a. Contrary to the provisions of Section 4 of the Urban Councils Ordinance, and in violation of Section 26(2), the road repair work was carried out without a council resolution. Furthermore the said road does not fall within the jurisdiction of the point Pedro Urban Council but within the jurisdcation of the Point Pedro Pradeshiya Sabha , and therefore does not legally belong to the Urban Council. Nevertheless, the work was estimated at Rs. 426.012.00 , and the Chairman of the Council entered into a written agreement with the St. Thomas Community Centre, assigning the work, which was subsequently completed.

II. At the special Council meeting held on 20.11.2025 Council Member Mr. Sivalingam Ponnambalam criticized the instructions issued by the Commissioner of Local Government in the letter dated 11.11.2025 concerning the actions of Government officials and the point pedro vegetable market. He also posted similar criticisms on his Facebook page.

III. Conflict Between the Council Chairman and the Council Secretary.

a. Allegations made by the Chairman against the Secretary

i. Failure to cooperate with administrative actions.ii. Engaging in incorrect and inappropriate correspondence.iii. Refusal to provide the Council office vehicle for the Chairman’s use, and keeping the vehicle key at the Secretary’s residence.

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'12Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2026

3A

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

iv. Previnting other Officers from performing their duties.v. Acting contrary to the provisions of the Urbance Councils Ordinance.vi. Failing to obtain the opinions of traders regarding the construction of the new vegetable market.

b. Allegations Made by the Secretary Against the Chairman

i. The relocation of the new vegetable market to the upper floor of the old market was carried out for political purposes and to serve the interests of traders representing the Chairman’s political party.

ii. Continuously treating the Secretary in a humiliating and degrading manner in the presence of officers and employees.

iii. Acting in a manner that threatens and intimidates the Secretary and other employees.

iv. The Ministry of Fisheries, Aquatic Resources and Marine Resources approved work programmes for deepening the jetties at Thumpalai East, Munai, Mannal Olungai, and Kottadi, which were assigned to the Point Pedro Urban Council.

a. Although the approval clearly specifies GPS coordinates of the deepening locations and the designated areas for dumping excavated soil, and requires permission from the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Managemant Department if larger quantities of soil are removed, there is no evidence that such permission was obtained or that the works were carried out under the supervision of the Regional Engineer of the said Department.

b. Although the Council’s tractors were used for the work Programme and the Council’s Technical Officer signed the vehicle operation report, proper records have not been maintained. The registers lack details such as date of work, start and ent time, location where the removed soil was dumped, vehicle number, number of hours the tractor was used, fuel consumption and related expenditure.

c. Even though a JCB vehicle belonging to an external party was obtained and used for the said project at a rate of Rs. 5,500.00 per hour (as approved by the relevant Department), proper procurement procedures were not followed in obtaining the vehicle, Furthermore, no formal letters or written agreements were dentered into with the owner of the said JCB regarding its hiring and use for the project.

Nagalingam Vethanayahan, Governor, Northern Province.

Governor’s Secretariat,Old Park,Chundikuli,Jaffna,On the 10th day of March, 2026.

EOG 03 - 0130