PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

————————

————————

Presented by the Minister of Power and Energy on 31st of August, 2022

(Published in the Gazette on August 12, 2022)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

[Bill No. 147]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

BILL

A

PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)(AMENDMENT)

to amend the Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)Act, No. 33 of 2002

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends the long title to the Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)Act, No. 33 of 2002 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and is consequentialto the amendment made by clause 4.

Clause 3 : This clause is consequential to the amendment made by clause 4.

Clause 4 : This clause replaces section 3 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof the section as replaced is to make provision for the Committee appointed by the Cabinetof Ministers, to be vested with the powers under the principal enactment.

Clause 5 : This clause amends section 6 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof this section as amended is to substitute the words “the Minister” for the words “Ministerin charge of the subject of Power and Energy”.

Clause 6 : This clause amends section 9 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof this section as amended is to insert the new definition of the expression “Minister” andto remove the definition of the expression “Energy Supply Committee” consequential tothe amendment made by clause 4.

Clause 7 : This clause provides validity for the powers exercised and acts done prior tothe commencement of the amending Act.

Clause 8 : This clause provides for transitional provisions and the legal effect of thesection is to extend the applicability of the provisions of the amending Act, to licencesalready issued under the principal enactment.

1Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment)

5

10

15

L.D.–O. 11/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, NO. 33 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Petroleum Products(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. of 2022.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than this section shallcome into operation on such date (hereinafter referred to asthe “appointed date”) as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2. The long title of the Petroleum Products (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 33 of 2002 (hereinafter referred to asthe “principal enactment”) is hereby amended by thesubstitution for the words “IN THE ENERGY SUPPLYCOMMITTEE;”, of the words “IN THE COMMITTEEAPPOINTED BY THE CABINET OF MINISTERS;”.

3. (1) In the principal enactment and other written law,every reference to the “Energy Supply Committee”, inrelation to the principal enactment, shall be read andconstrued as a reference to the “Committee appointed undersection 3”.

(2) In any notice, communication, form, or other documentissued, made, required or authorized by or under the principalenactment, every reference to “the Energy SupplyCommittee”, shall be read and construed as a reference tothe “Committee appointed under section 3”.

4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

20

25

Short title &date ofoperation

Amendmentof the longtitle to theAct, No. 33of 2002

Replacementof section 3of theprincipalenactment

“EnergySupplyCommittee”to be referredto as the“Committee”

2Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment)

3. (1) There shall be a Committee appointedby the Cabinet of Ministers (hereinafter referredto as the “Committee”), subject to thesucceeding provisions of this section toexercise, perform and discharge the powers,duties and functions hereinafter set out.

(2) The Committee shall consist of thefollowing:–

(a)ex-officio members–

(i)the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned thesubject of Petroleum, whoshall be the Chairman of theCommittee;

(ii)the Secretary to the Treasuryor his nominee not below therank of Director-General ofthe Treasury;

(b)the Chairman or Managing-Directorof the Ceylon PetroleumCorporation, established underCeylon Petroleum Corporation Act,No. 28 of 1961, nominated by theMinister;

(c)two members appointed fromamong persons who have achievedeminence in the field of petroleumindustry or law.

(3) A member of the Committee appointedunder paragraph (c) of subsection (2), shall holdoffice for the period of two years from the dateof appointment unless such member resigns

5

10

15

20

25

“Appointmentof aCommittee toexercise,perform anddischarge thepowers,duties andfunctionsunder this Act

30

3Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment)

the office by letter addressed to the Cabinet ofMinisters or, is removed from office by theCabinet of Ministers, for reasons assigned.

(4) The quorum for any meeting of theCommittee shall be three members and theCommittee may regulate the procedure, inregard to the meetings of the Committee andthe transaction of business at such meetings.

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution for thewords “the Minister in charge of the subject of Power andEnergy” of the words “the Minister”.

6. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:–

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression “Ceylon Petroleum Corporation” ofthe following new definition:–

““Minister” means the Minister assigned thesubject and functions relating to this Actunder Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution.”;and

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expression“Energy Supply Committee”.

7. Any power exercised or any act done, by the EnergySupply Committee prior to the date of commencement ofthis Act in pursuance of any power conferred on it by theprincipal enactment shall be deemed, for all purposes, tohave been validly exercised and done.

8. Every licence validly issued under the provisions ofthe principal enactment and stated therein to continue inforce for a period extending beyond the date of the coming

5

10

15

20

25

Amendmentof section 6of theprincipalenactment

Amendmentof section 9of theprincipalenactment

Validity ofacts doneprior to thecommencementof this Act

TransitionalProvisions30

4Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment)

5

into operation of this Act, shall continue in force for theperiod so stated and every such licensee shall be subject tothe provisions of this Act and any other terms and conditionswhich may be lawfully imposed under this Act and any otherregulation or rule made thereunder.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency

5Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING