==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2091$75 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'10'05

No. 2091/75 - FRIDAY OCTOBER 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4218 — 107 (10/2018)

Statute of “Digana Sports Complex and the Sports Development Foundation of

the Central Provincial Council

I am publishing herein below the aforementioned statute which was reputed by the Central Provincial Council on18th September 2018 and approved by the Hon. Governor to the Central Province on the 05th of October 2018 is effectivefrom the same date for your information.

THILINA BANDARA TENNAKOON,Minister of Sports, Youth Affairs, Women,Rural Development and Industries, Central Province.

P.O. Box. 41,Getambe,Peradeniya.

DIGANA SPORTS COMPLEX AND SPORTS DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

A statute of Sports and the Central Provincial Council for administration, maintenance and development of Digana SportsComplex, and to establish Sports Development Foundation, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.

BE it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Statute may be cited as the Digana Sports Complex and Sports DevelopmentFoundation of Central Province Statute No. 02 of 2018 of the Central Provincial Counciland shall come into force after the receipt of approval of the Governor, on such dateas the Minister may appoint.

Short titleand date ofenforcement

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.20182A

PART I

Establishment of Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundation

2.There shall be established Digana Sports Complex and Sports Development Foundationof Central Province (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”).

3.Objectives of the Foundation are as follows:

(1)Proper administration and maintenance of the sports complex,(2)To support to build a healthy and active community,(3)to promote and develop sports.(4)to provide facilities for the development of sports,(5)to provide opportunity for visitors/spectators to spend the time happily and joyfully,(6)to train local and foreign sports personnel and bring then to international level.(7)to provide facilities for officers of all levels connected to sports to improve theirknowledge, capabilities/abilities, and attitudes,(8)to protect and maintain the sports complex for future generations,(9)to create a sport complex with relevant facilities for the rural sport personnel toachieve an experience of international level,(10)Increasing income of people living around the sports complex and improvingemployment opportunities for them,(11)Providing opportunities for sports personnel in remote areas to improve their sportsskills by providing them with residential facilities.

4.The Foundation shall be a body incorporated and legal entity that can sue or be suedat a court of law with perpetual succession and a common seal.

5.(1)The Foundation shall be administered and managed by a Board of Control (hereinafterreferred to as “Board”).

(2)The Board shall comprise following ex-officio members:

i Chief Secretary, Central Province,ii Secretary to the Ministry,iii Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance), Central Province,iv Deputy Chief Secretary (Engineering Services), Central Province,

v Divisional Secretary, Kundasale,vi Director of Sports, Central Province,vii Director of Sports Education, Central Province.viii Two senior sports men or women who have gained international achievements and,

with special knowledge about sport

(3)All members of the Board shall be appointed by the Governor on the recommendationof the Provincial Minister in-charge of the Sports portfolio. Chief Secretary ofCentral Province shall be appointed as the Chairman of the Board and Secretary tothe Provincial Ministry in-charge of the Sports portfolio as the Secretary of theBoard.

Establishmentof DiganaSports Complexand SportsDevelopmentFoundation

Legal Entity

Composition ofBoard ofControl

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.2018

Meetings of theBoard andQuorum

6.(1)The Board shall meet once a month for the first six months after this statutecomes into power and thereafter once every three months or as the Board decidesas per requirement.

(2)Quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be three members.

7.The common seal of the Board shall be kept in the possession of the Secretary ofthe Board and every document to be signed on behalf of the Board shall be signedby the Chairman and the Secretary of the board and affixed with the commonseal.

8.The power and duties of the Foundation are as follows:

(1)to make decisions related to administration and maintenance of the sportscomplex and to protect and develop the sports complex as a property of theProvincial Council,(2)to make decisions regarding the modular changes and improvements to the sportscomplex,(3)to identify and promote new sources of income,(4)to monitor and direct the administrative works of the staff of sports complex,(5)to establish the required subcommittees such as revenue subcommittee, planningsubcommittee, maintenance subcommittee, sports subcommittee and medicalsubcommittee to facilitate the administrative and maintenance works of sportscomplex, and to formulate relevant rules and regulations and to provide guidance,(6)to acquire, sell, pawn, lease and exchange movable and immovable assets or useother instruments of disposition,(7)to accept immovable or movable properties received as gifts and donations fromgovernmental and non-governmental organizations, groups or individuals as perthe provisions of Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaof 1978 and Provincial Councils Act, No.42 of 1987,(8)to enter into agreements required for the implementation of the objectives ofthis statute,(9)to identify the designations and staff required for the administration of theFoundation, and to make decisions regarding recruitment, appointment, promotion,discipline and dismissal of staff,(10)to make decisions regarding the allowances or emoluments to be paid to theBoard or subcommittees when Foundation makes profits,(11)to determine the salaries and emoluments of the staff,(12)to plan sports training courses, to implement training programs and to takemeasures to train the beneficiaries for various courses,(13)to take steps for the development of sports such as establishment of Sport ScienceAcademy,(14)to consider requests to obtain ground facilities for schools and sports clubs inthe province.

9.The board shall implement the powers and duties of the Foundation.

10.The Minister shall table in the Provincial Council, an administrative reportincluding the administrative, developmental and financial progress of theFoundation before March 31 of every year.

Common Seal

Power andDuties of theFoundation

AdministrativeReport

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.20184A

PART II

Staff

11.(1)The Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the Foundation. He shallbe one of the Assistant Directors employed in the Department of Sports. Thechairman shall appoint the aforementioned, subject to the concurrence of the controlboard. The control board can recruit someone permanently for this position at anysuitable time.

(2)A Staff may be appointed to assist the Manager. Trainers and Sports Officers shallbe appointed from the staff of the Department of Sports and remainder of staff maybe appointed as decided by the Board, subject to the minute of recruitment andpromotion.

(3)The control board shall prepare a recruitment minute providing for the recruitmentof cadre under the aforementioned basis and for the recruitment of personnel andhave the same minute approved.

PART III

Advisory Committee

12.(1)There shall be appointed an Advisory Committee by the Governor to provideconsultancy for the duties of the Board.

(2)Composition of the Advisory Committee shall be as follows:

I Minister;II Four members of the Provincial Council;

(3)Unless dismissed by the Governor after giving reasons, the term of office of theAdvisory Committee is three (03) years. This time limitation shall not be applicablein the case of the Minister in-charge of the portfolio.

(4)The Governor shall appoint another member of the Provincial Council for a vacancyemerged as a result of resignation or dismissal from the membership of the AdvisoryCommittee or by death.

13.Duties and powers of the Advisory Committee

(1)to provide consultancy when requested by the Board.(2)to provide guidelines for local and foreign financial facilities required for thedevelopment of sports complex.(3)to provide guidance to obtain local and foreign expertise for the development ofsports skills.(4)to inspect the progress and evaluate the operation of sports subcommittees.(5)to advice in a conflict of opinion among members of the Board.

14.Advisory Committee may meet whenever required or when requested by the Board.

15.Secretary to the Ministry shall coordinate the meetings and other affairs of theAdvisory Committee.

Staff

Composition ofAdvisoryCommittee

Duties andPowers of theAdvisoryCommittee

Meeting ofAdvisoryCommittee

Coordination ofaffairs ofAdvisoryCommittee

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.2018

PART IV

Account of the Fund

16.(1)The foundation shall have a financial account under the name of “Digana SportsComplex and Sports Development Foundation of Central Province”.

(2)Sources of funds for the account are as follows :

I Funds from the Central Government.II Funds from Provincial Council Fund.III Income generated by the Foundation.IV Aids and donations received from governmental and non-governmental organizations

in accordance with the existing law.V Aids and donations received from individuals or groups.

17.The monies from the Account may be used for following purposes:

(1).for Administrative and maintenance works of the sports complex;(2).to pay employees’ salaries and emoluments;(3).to buy fixed and current assets;(4).for expanding the sports complex;(5).for staff to participate in courses and local and foreign trainings related to theirrespective subjects;(6).for other expenses to be borne in performing the duties of the Foundation.

18.The bank account should be maintained at a recognized state bank

19.Money can be withdrawn by the secretary of the control board from the account onthe recommendation of a three-member committee appointed by the Board or theaccount shall be operated with the signatures of an authorized officer and the manager.

20.The fiscal year is from 1st of January to 31st December every year.

21.All income and expenditure shall be entered into accounts and the accounting reportsshall be presented to the Board monthly.

22.The accounts shall be audited annually by the auditor-general and by the internalaudit of the Ministry.

PART V

General Provisions

23.Any party who is dissatisfied with a decision made by the control board or theconsultancy board shall have the opportunity to appeal to the Hon. Governor of theCentral Province.

24.(1)Without violating the sanctity of the regulations under the statute, Minister has theauthority to impose regulations on following matters:

SpendingMoney fromAccount

Withdrawalfrom Account

AccountingReports

Auditing ofAccounts

Appeals

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.20186A

(1)Establishment of sports subcommittees and provisions related to their powers, dutiesand constitutions;(2)Provisions related to booking the sports complex by external persons or institutions;(3)Provisions related to introducing sports courses;(4)Provisions related to users of the sports complex;(5)Provisions related to determining the booking fees for the sports complex.

24.(2)Minister shall have the power to impose regulations in respect of other matters asrequired for the implementation of powers and duties of this statute.

25.Every regulation made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Councilfor approval within a month after its publication in the Gazette. Any regulationfailing to obtain approval thus shall be considered as repealed as from the date ofits disapproval, but without prejudice to any such executed there under, and thatshall be published in the Gazette.26.All members and officers considered under this statute shall be deemed as publicservants for the purposes mentioned therein as per the definition in the code ofcriminal procedure. This foundation shall be considered as an institution scheduledin the bribery act and definitions shall be done according to the provisions of thatact.

27.Any person who commits a breach of any provision of this Statute or provisions ofany regulation made under it shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, andwhen such person is convicted after a trial before the Magistrate, to direct him topay a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding three months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

28.This statute made in respect of the stadium, agreed upon by the Chief Secretary ofthe Central Province and the Secretary of the Line Ministry of sports will be lapsedwith the approval of it by the Hon. Governor of the Central Province and on a datewhich shall be decided by the Minister for bringing it into effect.

PART VI

Interpretation

29. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires;

“Digana Sports Complex” means the Digana Sports Complex situated at Digana,inclusive of the Indoor stadium, Swimming pool, Open playground, stadium, Bodybuilding unit; cafeteria and the Land, and any development and constructions thatmay be erected in the premises;

“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council;

“Governor” means the Governor of Central Province;

“Minister” means the Minister who is in-charge of the subject of sports of the

Central Province;

Offences andPunishments

Interpretation

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'05PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.10.2018

In aninconsistencySinhala textshall prevail

“Chief Secretary” shall mean the Chief Secretary of the Central Province.

“Secretary” means Secretary to the Ministry to which subject of sports of the Central

Province is delegated to;

“Provincial Director” means the Director of Department of Sports of the Central

Province;

“Digana Stadium” is a division affiliated to Department of Sports and Ministry to

which subject of sports of the Central Provincial Council are delegated to;

30.In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts of thisStatute the Sinhala text shall prevail.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.