==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1942$20 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'11'26No. 1942/20 - THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 26, 2015

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995

Publication under Section 4(2)

By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the publication on Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Smaller Entities 2015 (SLFRSfor Smaller Entities 2015), published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act,No. 15 of 1995. These changes shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after thefirst day of January Two Thousand Sixteen.

By Order of the Council,

ARUNA ALWIS,Secretary

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,No. 30A,Malalasekera Mawatha,Colombo 07.26th November, 2015

N.B.—Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.

PG 2705 (2015/11)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20152A

Introduction

Financial statements of most entities which have a high level of public interest are publicly available and membersof the public use them to make economic decisions. Therefore, such entities are required to comply with SLFRSs.Other entities could prepare their financial statements in compliance with SLFRS for SMEs. However, SLFRSsand SLFRS for SMEs are too complex for smaller entities and its adoption may not be cost effective for thoseentities due to:

(a)smaller revenue, equity, assets, and liabilities; and

(b)access to financial statements being generally restricted to stakeholders who may be in a position torequest for additional information.

SLFRS for Smaller Entities is a simple financial reporting standard which could be cost effectively used by smallerentities. It could be applied by an entity that is not any of the following:

(a)an entity that had revenue in excess of Rs. 100 million in the reporting period;

(b)an entity that had equity in excess of Rs. 50 million at the end of the previous reporting period;

(c)a company that is required to prepare group financial statements by the law relating to companies; or

(d)an entity that holds assets in a fiduciary capacity as one of its primary businesses.

The standard includes, among others, the following simplifications:

(a)complex requirements relating to financial instruments were excluded;

(b)complex requirements relating to fair value, value in use and actuarial valuations were excluded;

(c)measurement of items were further simplified, for example by the measurement of most leases on astraight line basis, exclusion of overheads from the cost of inventory, exclusion of borrowing costs fromthe cost of assets, measurement of retirement gratuity at the amount payable if the employees leave onthe reporting date, and recognition of the cost of leave in the period in which leave is taken;

(d)changes in accounting policies and corrections of prior period errors to be presented as adjustments toretained earnings at the beginning of the reporting period, without the need to change comparativeinformation;

(e)transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities has been made easier, by having the transition date as the beginningof the first reporting period of the financial statements prepared in compliance with SLFRS for SmallerEntities;

(f)requirements relating to disclosure substantially reduced;

(g)statement of profit or loss and retained earnings to be presented in place of statement of comprehensiveincome and the statement of changes in equity; and

(h)not including requirements relating to activities and transactions not likely to be carried out by a smallerentity.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20153A

Preface to SLFRS for Smaller Entities

1.The objective of SLFRS for Smaller Entities is to provide a simple financial reporting standard whichcould be cost effectively used by smaller entities.

2.Entities which could use SLFRS for Smaller Entities are specified in Chapter 1 of the standard.

3.SLFRS for Smaller Entities can be read, interpreted and applied without reference to SLFRSs or SLFRSfor SMEs.

4.Concepts and pervasive principles of SLFRS for Smaller Entities are stated in chapter 2 of the standard.The Conceptual Framework for SLFRSs and the Concepts and Pervasive Principles of SLFRS for SMEsare not applicable to SLFRS for Smaller Entities.

5.The requirements stated in SLFRS for Smaller Entities recocognises the size, level of complexity, availabilityof resources and their effect on cost effectiveness in the preparation and presentation of financialstatements of smaller entities. Therefore the principles of presentation, recognition and measurementstated in this standard are simpler than those stated in SLFRSs and SLFRS for SMEs.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20154A

Contents

SLFRS for Smaller Entities

Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Smaller Entities

Chapter

1Scope of this SLFRS

2Concepts and Pervasive Principles

3Presentation of Financial Statements

4Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors

5Inventories

6Property, Plant and Equipment

7Leases

8Employee Benefits

9Revenue

10Provisions and Contingencies

11Borrowing Cost

12Foreign Currency Translation

13Related Party Disclosures

14Government Grants

15Other Assets and Liabilities

16Events after the End of the Reporting Period

17Transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities

Illustrative presentation of financial statements

Comparison with SLFRSs

Comparison with SLFRS for SMEs

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20155A

Chapter 1 –Scope of this SLFRS

Introduction

1.1This standard, SLFRS for Smaller Entities may be used in the preparation and presentation of the financial statementsof a smaller entity with the meaning specified in this chapter.

Smaller Entity

1.2An entity that is not any of the following is a smaller entity:

(a)an entity that had revenue in excess of Rs. 100 million in the reporting period;

(b)an entity that had equity in excess of Rs. 50 million at the end of the previous reporting period;

(c)a company that is required to prepare group financial statements by the law relating to companies; or

(d)an entity that holds assets in a fiduciary capacity as one of its primary business.

Chapter 2 - Concepts and Pervasive Principles

Objective of financial statements

2.1The objective of financial statements prepared in compliance with this standard is to cost effectively providefinancial information about the reporting entity that is useful to users of financial statements of a smaller entity.

Assets, liabilities, and Equity

2.2Assets, liabilities, and equity are defined as follows:

(a)an asset is a present economic resource controlled by the entity as a result of past events;

(b)liability is a present obligation of the entity to transfer an economic resource as aresult of past events; and

(c)equity is the residual interest in the assets of the entity after deducting all its liabilities.

Income and Expenses

2.3Income and expenses are defined as follows:

(a)income is increases in economic benefits during the reporting period in the form of inflows or enhancementsof assets or decreases of liabilities that result in increases in equity, other than those relating to contributionsfrom equity investors; and

(b)expenses are decreases in economic benefits during the reporting period in the form of outflows or depletionsof assets or incurrences of liabilities that result in decreases in equity, other than those relating to distributionsto equity investors.

Recognition of assets, liabilities, income and expenses

2.4An item shall be recognised (ie, incorporated in the financial statements) if it meets the definition of an asset,liability, income or expense and satisfies the following criteria:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20156A

(a)it is probable (ie, more likely than not) that any future economic benefit associated with the item will flowto or from the entity; and

(b)the item has a cost or value that can be measured reliably.

Accrual basis

2.5An entity shall prepare its financial statements, using the accrual basis of accounting. On the accrual basis, itemsare recognised as assets, liabilities, equity, income or expenses when they satisfy the definitions and recognitioncriteria for those items.

Chapter 3 – Presentation of Financial Statements

Fair presentation

3.1The financial position and financial performance of an entity, shall be presented fairly in financial Statements.

Compliance with SLFRS for Smaller Entities

3.2An entity that meets the requirements of this standard and whose financial statements comply with this standardshall make a statement of compliance with SLRFS for Smaller Entities in the notes to the financial statements.

Going concern

3.3The management shall make an assessment of the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. An entity is agoing concern unless management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realisticalternative but to do so. In assessing whether the going concern assumption is appropriate, management takes intoaccount all available information about the future, which is at least, but is not limited to, twelve months from thereporting date.When management is aware, in making its assessment, of material uncertainties related to eventsor conditions that cast significant doubt upon the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, the entity shalldisclose those uncertainties.

Frequency of reporting

3.4An entity shall present a complete set of financial statements at least annually.

Consistency of presentation

3.5An entity shall retain the presentation and classification of items in the financial statements from one period to thenext unless it is apparent, following a significant change in the nature of the entity’s operations or a review of itsfinancial statements, that another presentation or classification would be more appropriate.

Comparative information

3.6Except when this standard permits or requires otherwise, an entity shall disclose comparative information inrespect of the previous comparable period for all amounts presented in the current period’s financial statements.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20157A

Materiality and aggregation

3.7Information is material if its omission or misstatement could, individually or collectively, influence the economicdecisions of users made on the basis of the financial statements.

3.8An entity need not follow a requirement in this Standard if the effect of doing so would not be material.

3.9An entity shall present separately each material class of similar items. An entity shall present separately items of adissimilar nature or function unless they are immaterial.

Complete set of financial statements

3.10A complete set of financial statements of an entity shall include all of the following:

(a)a statement of assets and liabilities;

(b)astatement of profit or loss and retained earnings for the reporting period;

(c)a statement of cash flows for the reporting period; and

(d)notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.

Identification of the financial statements

3.11An entity shall clearly identify each of the financial statements (including the notes) and distinguish them fromother information in the same document. In addition, an entity shall display the following information prominently,and repeat it when necessary for an understanding of the information presented:

(a)the name of the reporting entity and any change in its name since the end of the preceding reporting period;

(b)the date of the end of the reporting period and the period covered by the financial statements;

(c)the currency in which the financial statements are presented; and

(d)the multiples of the number of currency units (such as Rs. ‘000s), if any, at which amounts are presentedin the financial statements.

3. 12An entity shall disclose the following in the notes:

(a)the legal form of the entity, its country of incorporation, the address of its registered office, and theprincipal place of business; and

(b)a description of the nature of the entity’s operations and its principal activities.

Statement of assets and liabilities

Introduction

3.13The statement of assets and liabilities, shall present the entity’s assets, liabilities and equity as at the reporting date.

Current/non-current distinction

3.14An entity shall present current and non-current assets, and current and non-current liabilities, as separateclassifications in its statement of assets and liabilities.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20158A

3. 15An entity shall classify an asset as current when:

(a)it expects to realise the asset, or intends to sell or consume it, in the entity’s normal operating cycle;

(b)it holds the asset primarily for the purpose of trading;

(c)it expects to realise the asset within twelve months after the reporting date; or

(d)the asset is cash or a cash equivalent, unless it is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liabilityfor at least twelve months after the reporting date.

3.16An entity shall classify all other assets as non-current. When the entity’s normal operating cycle is not clearlyidentifiable, its duration is assumed to be twelve months.

3.17An entity shall classify a liability as current when:

(a)it expects to settle the liability in the entity’s normal operating cycle;

(b)the liability is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting date; or

(c)the entity does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least twelve monthsafter the reporting date.

3. 18An entity shall classify all other liabilities as non-current.

Information to be presented either in the statement of assets and liabilities or in the notes

3.19An entity shall disclose, either in the statement of assets and liabilities or in the notes, the following sub classificationsof the line items presented:

(a)property, plant and equipment in classifications appropriate to the entity;

(b)trade and other receivables showing separately amounts due from related parties, amounts due from otherparties, and receivables arising from accrued income not yet billed;

(c)inventories, showing separately amounts of inventories:

(i)held for sale in the ordinary course of business (for example, inventories held by retailers and thefinished goods of a manufacturer);

(ii)in the process of production for such sale (for example, the work in progress of a manufacturer);

(iii)in the form of materials or supplies to be consumed in the production process or in the rendering ofservices (for example, raw materials); and

(d)trade and other payables, showing separately payables to trade suppliers, payables to related parties, deferredincome and accruals;

(e)provisions,showing separately provisions for employee benefits and other items; and

(f)classes of equity, such as stated capital, and retained earnings.

3.20An entity with share capital shall disclose the following, either in the statement of assets and liabilities or in thenotes:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.20159A

(a)for each class of share capital:

(i)the number of shares issued and fully paid, and issued but not fully paid;

(ii)a reconciliation of the number of shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the period;

(iii)the rights, preferences and restrictions attached to that class including restrictions on the distributionof dividends and the repayment of capital; and

(iv)shares reserved for issue under options and contracts for the sale of shares, including the terms andamounts; and

(b)a description of each reserve within equity.

Statement of Profit or Loss and Retained Earnings

3.21An entity shall present items of income and expense recognised in determining profit or loss of the reportingperiod, retained earnings of the commencemnet of the reporting period, corrections of prior period errors,effect of changes in accounting policy relating to prior periods, dividends, any other items that effect the retainedearnings, and retained earnings at the end of the reporting period in the statement of profit or loss and retainedearnings for the reporting period.

3.22An entity shall present an analysis of expenses using a classification based on the function of expenses within theentity. Cost of sales, distribution costs and administration expenses are examples of aggregations based on functionof expenses. An entity shall not present or describe any items of income or expense as ‘extraordinary items’ in thefinancial statements.

Statement of Cash Flows

Cash equivalents

3.23 Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments held to meet short-term cash commitments. Therefore, aninvestment normally qualifies as a cash equivalent only when it has a short maturity of, say, three months or lessfrom the date of acquisition. Bank overdrafts are normally considered financing activities similar to borrowings.

Information to be presented in the statement of cash flows

3.24An entity shall present a statement of cash flows that presents cash flows for a reporting period classified byoperating activities, investing activities and financing activities.

Operating activities

3.25Operating activities are the principal revenue-producing activities of the entity. Therefore, cash flows from operatingactivities generally result from the transactions and other events and conditions that enter into the determination ofprofit or loss. Some transactions, such as the sale of an item of plant by a manufacturing entity, may give rise to again or loss that is included in profit or loss. However, the cash flows relating to such transactions are cash flowsfrom investing activities.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201510A

Investing activities

3.26Investing activities are the acquisition and disposal of long-term assets and other investments not included in cashequivalents.

Financing activities

3.27Financing activities are activities that result in changes in the size and composition of the contributed equity andborrowings of an entity.

Reporting cash flows from operating activities

3.28An entity shall present cash flows from operating activities using the indirect method, whereby profit or loss isadjusted for the effects of non-cash transactions, any deferrals or accruals of past or future operating cash receiptsor payments, and items of income or expense associated with investing or financing cash flows.

3.29The net cash flow from operating activities is determined by adjusting profit or loss for the effects of:

(a)changes during the period in inventories and operating receivables and payables;

(b)non-cash items such as depreciation, provisions, accrued income (or expenses) not yet received (or paid) incash, and unrealised foreign currency gains and losses; and

(c)all other items for which the cash effects relate to investing or financing.

Notes

3. 30The notes shall:

(a)present information about the basis of preparation of the financial statements and the specific accountingpolicies used.

(b)disclose the information required by this standard that is not presented elsewhere in the financial statements;and

(c)provide information that is not presented elsewhere in the financial statements but is relevant to anunderstanding of any of them.

3.31An entity shall, as far as practicable, present the notes in a systematic manner. An entity shall cross-referenceeach item in the financial statements to any related information in the notes.

3.32The following is an example of a systematic order for presenting the notes:

(a)a statement that the financial statements have been prepared incompliance with the SLFRS for smallerentities;

(b)a summary of significant accounting policies applied;

(c)supporting information for items presented in the financial statements,in the sequence in which each statementand each line item is presented;and

(d)any other disclosures.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201511A

Disclosure of accounting policies

3.33An entity shall disclose the following in the summary of significant accounting policies:

(a)the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements (for example, historical cost);and

(b)the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements.

Chapter 4 - Accounting Policies, Estimates and Errors

Selection and application of accounting policies

4.1Accounting policies are the specific principles, bases, conventions, rules and practices applied by an entity inpreparing and presenting financial statements. An entity shall select and apply its accounting policies consistentlyfor similar transactions, other events and conditions.

Changes in accounting policies

4.2An entity shall change an accounting policy only if the change results in the financial statements providing reliableand more relevant information about the effects of transactions, other events or conditions on the entity’s financialposition, or financial performance. Therefore, changes in accounting policies are generally rare.

4.3The application of a new accounting policy for transactions, other events or conditions that did not occur previouslyor were not material is not treated as a change in an accounting policy.

Applying changes in accounting policies

4.4An entity shall present effect of changes in accounting policy relating to prior periods in the statement of profitor loss and retained earnings as an item which is not recognised in determining profit or loss of the reportingperiod, but recognised in determining the retained earnings brought forward.

Changes in accounting estimates

4.5A change in accounting estimate is an adjustment of the carrying amount of an asset or a liability, or the amountof the periodic consumption of an asset, that results from the assessment of the present status of, and expectedfuture benefits and obligations associated with, assets and liabilities. Changes in accounting estimates resultfrom new information or new developments and, accordingly, are not corrections of errors. When it is difficultto distinguish a change in an accounting policy from a change in an accounting estimate, the change is treated asa change in an accounting estimate.

4.6Examples of changes in accounting estimate include:

(a)a change in the method of depreciating an item of property, plant and equipment from a reducing balancemethod to a straight line method to reflect a revised assessment of the pattern of consumption of benefitsof the asset; and

(b)the re-estimate of useful life of an item of property, plant and equipment.

4.7An entity shall recognise the effect of a change in an accounting estimate, prospectively by including it in profitor loss in:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201512A

(a)the period of the change, if the change affects that period only; or

(b)the period of the change and future periods, if the change affects both.

4.8To the extent that a change in an accounting estimate gives rise to changes in assets or liabilities, the entity shallrecognise it by adjusting the carrying amount of the related asset or liability in the period of the change.

Correction of prior period errors

4.9Prior period errors are omissions from, and misstatements in, the entity’s financial statements for one or more priorperiods arising from a failure to use, or misuse of, reliable information that:

(a)was available when financial statements for those periods were authorised for issue; and

(b)could reasonably be expected to have been obtained and taken into account in the preparation andpresentation of those financial statements.

4.10Such errors include the effects of mathematical mistakes, mistakes in applying accounting policies, oversights ormisinterpretations of facts, and fraud.

4.11An entity shall present effect of errors relating to prior periods in the statement of profit or loss and retainedearnings as an item which is not recognised in determining profit or loss of the reporting period, but recognised indetermining the retained earnings broughtforward.

Disclosures

Disclosure of a change in accounting policy

4. 12When a change in accounting policy has an effect on the current period or any prior period, an entity shall disclosethe following:

(a)the nature of the change in accounting policy;

(b)the reasons why applying the new accounting policy provides reliableand more relevant information;

(c)to the extent practicable, the amount of the adjustment for the profit or loss:

(i)for the current period; and

(ii) in the aggregate for periods before current period ; and

(d)an explanation, if it is impracticable to determine the amounts to be disclosed in (c) above.

Financial statements of subsequent periods need not repeat these disclosures.

Disclosure of a change in estimate

4.13An entity shall disclose the nature of any change in an accounting estimate and the effect of the change on assets,liabilities, income and expense for the current period.

Disclosure of prior period errors

4.14An entity shall disclose the following about prior period errors:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201513A

(a)the nature of the prior period error;

(b)the amount of the correction ofthe retained earnings;

(c)an explanation if it is not practicable to determine the amounts to be disclosed in (a) or (b) above.

Financial statements of subsequent periods need not repeat these disclosures.

Chapter 5 - Inventories

Scope

5.1Inventories are assets:

(a)held for sale in the ordinary course of business;

(b)in the process of production for such sale; or

(c)in the form of materials or supplies to be consumed in the production process or in the rendering of services.

Measurement of inventories

5.2An entity shall measure inventories at the lower of cost and estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.A reduction in carrying value of inventories is recognized in profit or loss as impairment of inventories.

Cost of inventories

5.3An entity shall include in the cost of inventories cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs incurred inbringing the inventories to their present location and condition.

Cost of purchase

5.4The cost of purchase of inventories comprise purchase price, import duties and other taxes (other than thosesubsequently recoverable by the entity fromthe taxing authorities), and transport, handling and other costs directlyattributable to the acquisition of finished goods, material and services. Trade discounts, rebates and other similaritems are deducted in determining the cost of purchase.

Cost of conversion

5.5The cost of conversion of inventories include only costs directly related to the units of production, such as directmaterial and direct labour.

Joint products and by-products

5.6A production process may result in more than one product being produced simultaneously. This is the case, forexample, when joint products are produced or when there is a main product and a by-product. When the costs of rawmaterials or conversion of each product are not separately identifiable, an entity shall allocate them between theproducts on a rational and consistent basis. The allocation may be based, for example, on the relative sales value ofeach product either at the stage in the production process when the products becomes separately identifiable, or atthe completion of production. When the cost of a by-product is not material, the entity shall measure it at sellingprice less costs to complete and sell and deduct this amount from the cost of the main product.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201514A

Costs excluded from inventories

5.7Examples of costs excluded from the cost of inventories and recognised as expenses in the period in which they areincurred are:

(a)abnormal amounts of wasted material, labour or other production cost;

(b)storage cost, unless storage is required between production stages;

(c)production and administrative overhead;

(d)selling cost;

(e)interest cost; and

(f)foreign exchange differences.

Cost of inventories of a service provider

5.8Service providers who have inventories, measure such inventories at the cost of production. Cost of productionconsist primarily of cost of personnel directly engaged in providing the service, including supervisory personnel.Cost relating to sales and general administrative personnel are not included but are recognised as expenses in theperiod in which they are incurred. The cost of inventories of a service provider does not include profit margins ornon-attributable overheads.

Techniques for measuring cost, such as standard costing, retail method and most recent purchase price

5.9An entity may use techniques such as the standard cost method, the retail price less margin or most recentpurchase price for measuring the cost of inventories if the result approximates actual cost. Standard costs takeinto account normal levels of materials and supplies, labour, efficiency and capacity utilisation. They are regularlyreviewed and, if necessary, revised based on current conditions.

Methods of Cost Ascertainment

5.10An entity shall measure the cost of inventories of items that are not ordinarily interchangeable and goods orservices produced and segregated for specific projects by using specific identification of their individual costs.

5.11An entity shall measure the cost of inventories, by using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) or weighted average costmethod. An entity shall use the same method for all inventories having a similar nature and use to the entity. Forinventories with a different nature or use, different methods may be justified. The last-in, first-out method (LIFO)is not permitted.

Recognition as an expense

5.12When inventories are sold, the entity shall recognise the carrying amount of those inventories as an expense(often referred to as cost of goods sold) in the period in which the related revenue is recognised.

5.13Some inventories may be allocated to other asset accounts, for example,inventory used as a component of self-constructed property, plant or equipment.Inventories allocated to another asset in this way are subsequentlyaccounted for in accordance with the chapter of this Standard relevant to that type of asset.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201515A

Disclosures

5.14An entity shall disclose the following:

(a)the accounting policies adopted in measuring inventories, including the method used;

(b)the total carrying amount of inventories and the carrying amount in classifications appropriate to the entity;

(c)the amount of inventories recognised as an expense during the period;

(d)impairment losses recognised or reversed in profit or loss; and

(e)the total carrying amount of inventories pledged as security for liabilities.

Chapter 6 - Property, Plant and Equipment

Scope

6.1Property, plant and equipment are tangible assets that:

(a)are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for administrativepurposes; and

(b)are expected to be used during more than one reporting period.

Recognition

6.2Items such as spare parts, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment are property, plant and equipment if theentity expects to use them during more than one period or if they can be used only in connection with an item ofproperty, plant and equipment. Otherwise, such items are classified as inventories.

Land and buildings are separable assets, and an entity shall account for them separately, even when they areacquired together.

Measurement at recognition

6.3An entity shall measure an item of property, plant and equipment at initial recognition at its cost.

Elements of cost

6.4The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises all of the following:

(a)its purchase price, including legal and brokerage fees, import duties and non-refundable purchase taxes,after deducting trade discounts and rebates; and

(b)any cost directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to becapable of operating in the manner intended by management. These can include the cost of site preparation,initial delivery and handling, installation and assembly,and testing of functionality.

6.5The following costs are not costs of an item of property, plant and equipment,and an entity shall recognise themas an expense when they are incurred:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201516A

(a)cost of opening a new facility;

(b)cost of introducing a new product or service (including costs ofadvertising and promotional activities);

(c)cost of conducting business in a new location or with a new class of customer (including costs of stafftraining);

(d)administration and other general overhead cost; and

(e)borrowing cost.

6.6The income and related expenses of incidental operations during construction or development of an item ofproperty, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss if those operations are not necessary to bring theitem to its intended location and operating condition.

Measurement after initial recognition

6.7An entity shall measure an item of property, plant and equipment after initial recognition at cost less any subsequentaccumulated depreciation and any subsequent accumulated impairment losses.

6.8The relevant proportion of cost less accumulated depreciation of an item of property, plant and equipment thathas suffered damages, other than due to normal use, shall be recognized in profit or loss as impairment. An entityshall recognise the cost of day-to-day servicing of an item of property, plant and equipment in profit or loss inthe period in which such cost is incurred.

Depreciable amount and depreciation period

6.9An entity shall allocate the depreciable amount of an asset on a systematic basis over its useful life. The depreciableamount is cost minus accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, minus residual value.Theresidual value of an asset is the estimated amount that an entity would currently obtain from disposal of the asset,after deducting the estimated cost of disposal, if the asset was already of the age and in the condition expected atthe end of its useful life.

6.10The depreciation charge for each period shall be recognised in profit or loss.

6.11Factors such as a change in how an asset is used, significant unexpected wear and tear, technological advancement,and changes in market prices may indicate that the residual value or useful life of an asset has changed since themost recent annual reporting date. If such indicators are present, an entity shall review its previous estimates and,if current expectations differ, amend the residual value, depreciation method or useful life. The entity shallaccount for the change in residual value, depreciation method or useful life as a change inan accounting estimate.

6.12Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use, ie, when it is in the location and condition necessaryfor it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. Depreciation of an asset ceases when theasset is derecognized or fully depreciated.

6.13The useful life of an asset is the period over which the asset is expected to be available for use by the entity or thenumber of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the asset by the entity. An entity shall considerall of the following factors in determining the useful life of an asset:

(a)the expected usage of the asset. Usage is assessed by reference to the asset’s expected capacity or physicaloutput;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201517A

(b)expected physical wear and tear, which depends on operational factors such as the number of shifts forwhich the asset is to be used and the repair and maintenance programme, and the care and maintenance ofthe asset while idle;

(c)technical or commercial obsolescence arising from changes or improvements in production, or from achange in the market demand for the product or service output of the asset; and

(d)legal or similar limits on the use of the asset, such as the expiry dates of related leases.With some exceptions,such as quarries and sites used for landfill, land has an unlimited useful life and therefore is not depreciated.

Depreciation method

6.14An entity shall select a depreciation method that reflects the pattern in which it expects to consume the asset’sfuture economic benefits. The possible depreciation methods include the straight-line method, the diminishingbalance method and a method based on usage such as the units of production method.

Derecognition

6.15An entity shall derecognise an item of property, plant and equipment:

(a)on disposal; or

(b)when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.

6.16An entity shall recognise the gain or loss on derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment in profitor loss when the item is derecognised.The entity shall not classify such gains as revenue.

6.17The date of disposal is the date when the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed.

6.18An entity shall determine the gain or loss arising from derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipmentas the difference between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the item.

Disclosures

6.19An entity shall disclose the following for each class of property, plant and equipment:

(a)the measurement bases used for determining the gross carrying amount;

(b)the depreciation methods used;

(c)the useful lives or the depreciation rates used;

(d)the gross carrying amount, accumulated depreciation,and accumulated impairment losses if any at thebeginning and end of the reporting period; and

(e)a reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and the end of the reporting period showingseparately:

(i)additions;

(ii)disposals;

(iii) depreciation; and

(iv)impairment.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201518A

This reconciliation need not be presented for prior periods.

6.20The entity shall also disclose the existence and carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment to which theentity has restricted title or that is pledged as security for liabilities.

Chapter7–Leases

Scope

7.1A lessor is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment or series of paymentsthe right to use an asset for an agreed period of time. A lease may or may not transfer the ownership of the assetto the lessee at the end of the lease term.

7.2This chapter covers accounting for all leases other than:

(a)a lease to explore for or use mineral, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resource;

(b)a licensing agreement for such item as motion picture film, video recording, play, manuscript, patent orcopyright;

(c)a lease of biological assets;and

(d)a lease that:

(i)transfers substantially all risks and rewards incidental to ownership; and

(ii)the period of the lease is not a significant part of the useful life of the asset.

Financial Statements of lessees

7.3A lessee shall recognise lease payments as an expense on a straight-linebasis unless the payments to the lessorare structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for the lessor’s expectedinflationary cost increases.

Financial statements of lessors

7.4A lessor shall present assets subject to leases in its statement of assets and liabilities according to the nature ofthe asset.

7.5A lessor shall recognise lease income in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless thepayments to the lessor are structured to increase in line with expected general inflation to compensate for thelessor’s expected inflationary cost increases.

7.6A lessor shall recognise as an expense costs, including depreciation, incurred in earning the lease income.

Disclosures

7.7A lessee shall make the following disclosures for leases:

(a)lease payments recognised as an expense.

(b)a general description of the lessee’s significant leasing arrangements including, for example, informationabout contingent rent, renewal or purchase options and escalation clauses, subleases, and restrictionsimposed by lease arrangements.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201519A

Chapter8- Employee Benefits

General recognition principle

8.1Employee benefits are consideration given by an entity in exchange for service rendered by employees, includingdirectors and management. An entity shall recognise the cost of employee benefits to which its employees havebecome entitled as a result of service rendered to the entity, in accordance with the requirements stated in thischapter:

(a)as a liability, after deducting amounts that have been paid either directly to the employees or as a contributionto an employee benefit fund. If the amount paid exceeds the obligation arising from service before thereporting date, an entity shall recognise that excess as an asset to the extent that the prepayment will lead toa reduction in future payments or a cash refund.

(b)as an expense, unless another chapter of this standard requires the cost to be recognised as part of the costof an asset such as inventories or property, plant and equipment.

Specific employee benefits

8.2When an employee has rendered service to an entity, the entity shall measure the amounts recognised in profit orloss as follows:

(a)benefits payable within a short period of time before or after the period of service, such as wages, salaries,contributions to provident funds or trust funds, medical insurance premiums, and use of vehicle or residence,in the reporting period in which service is rendered;

(b)bonus and profit sharing payments, in the reporting period in which service is rendered;

(c)medical benefits not covered by insurance, in the reporting period in which employee claims the benefit;

(d)cost incurred for casual, annual or medical leave, in the reporting period in which leave is taken;

8.3Benefits payable on termination of employment, such as gratuity shall be measured and recognized as a liability atthe amount that would be payable at the end of the reporting period, if the employees leave on that date. Employeeswho have not completed the minimum period of service to be entitled to the termination benefit at the end of thereporting period are not considered in the measurement of the liability.

8.4Benefits payable as a result of an entity’s decision to terminate an employee’s employment before the normalretirement date, are recognised in the reporting period in which the decision is communicated to the employee.

8.5Benefits payable as a result of an employee’s decision to accept voluntary redundancy in exchange for thosebenefits, are recognised in profit or loss in the reporting period in which the employee accepts the same.

Chapter9- Revenue

Scope

9.1Revenue is the gross inflow of economic benefits during the period arising in the course of the ordinary activities ofan entity when those inflows result in increases in equity, other than increases relating to contributions fromequity participants. This chapter shall be applied in accounting for revenue arising from the following transactionsand events:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201520A

(a)the sale of goods (whether produced by the entity for the purpose of sale or purchased for resale);

(b)the rendering of services;

(c)construction contracts in which the entity is the contractor. A construction contract is a contract specificallynegotiated for the construction of an asset or a combination of assets that are closely interrelated orinterdependent in terms of their design, technology and function or their ultimate purpose or use; and

(d)deposits or receivables yielding interest.

Measurement of revenue

9.2An entity shall measure revenue at the value of the consideration received or receivable. The value of theconsideration received or receivable is after deducting the amount of any trade discounts, prompt settlementdiscounts and volume rebates allowed by the entity.

9.3An entity shall include in revenue only the gross inflows of economic benefits received and receivable by theentity on its own account. An entity shall exclude from revenue all amounts collected on behalf of third parties.Taxes based on sales or value added collected on behalf of a government shall not be included in revenue. In anagency relationship, an entity shall include in revenue only the amount of its commission. The amounts collectedon behalf of the principal are not revenue of the entity.

Sale of goods

9.4An entity shall recognise revenue from the sale of goods when all the following conditions are satisfied:

(a)the entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods;

(b)the entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownershipnor effective control over the goods sold;

(c)the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;

(d)it is probable (ie more likely than not) that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flowto the entity; and

(e)the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.

9.5The assessment of when an entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyerrequires an examination of the circumstances of the transaction. In most cases, the transfer of the risks andrewards of ownership coincides with the transfer of the legal title or the passing of possession to the buyer. Thisis the case for most retail sales. An entity does not recognise revenue if it retains significant risks and rewards ofownership, for example, if the receipt of the revenue from a particular sale is contingent on the buyer selling thegoods.

Rendering of services

9.6When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services can be estimated reliably, an entity shallrecognise revenue associated with the transaction by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction atthe end of the reporting period (sometimes referred to as the percentage of completion method). The outcomeof a transaction can be estimated reliably when all the following conditions are satisfied:

(a)the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201521A

(b)it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity;

(c)the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably; and

(d)the costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.

9.7When the outcome of the transaction involving the rendering of services cannot be estimated reliably, an entityshall recognise revenue only to the extent of the expenses recognised that are recoverable.

Construction contracts

9.8When the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, an entity shall recognise contract revenueand contract costs associated with the construction contract as revenue and expenses respectively by referenceto the stage of completion of the contract activity at the end of the reporting period (often referred to as thepercentage of completion method). Reliable estimation of the outcome requires reliable estimates of the stageof completion, and future costs.

Percentage of completion method

9.9This method is used to recognise revenue from rendering services and from construction contracts. An entityshall review and, when necessary, revise the estimates of revenue and costs as the service transaction orconstruction contract progresses.

9.10An entity shall determine the stage of completion of a transaction or contract using the method that measuresmost reliably the work performed. Possible methods include:

(a)the proportion that costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total costs. Costsincurred for work performed to date do not include costs relating to future activity, such as for materialsor prepayments;

(b)surveys of work performed; and

(c)completion of a physical proportion of the service transaction or contract work.

Progress payments and advances received from customers often do not reflect the work performed.

9.11An entity shall recognise costs that relate to future activity on the transaction or contract, such as for materialsor prepayments, as an asset if it is probable that the costs will be recovered.

9.12An entity shall recognise as an expense immediately any costs whose recovery is not probable.

9.13When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably:

(a)an entity shall recognise revenue only to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will berecoverable; and

(b)the entity shall recognise contract costs as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.

9.14When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue on a construction contract, theexpected loss shall be recognised as an expense immediately, with a corresponding provision for an onerouscontract.

9.15If the collectability of an amount already recognised as contract revenue is no longer probable, the entity shallrecognise the uncollectible amount as an expense rather than as an adjustment of the amount of contract revenue.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201522A

Interest

9.16Interest shall be recognised using the effective interest rate.

9.17The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts, to the carrying amountof the asset. The effective interest rate is determined at initial recognition. Under the effective interest method:

(a)the carrying value of an asset is the present value of future cash receipts discounted at the effective interestrate; and

(b)the interest income in a period equals the carrying amount of the asset at the beginning of a period multipliedby the effective interest rate for the period.

9.18Where interest is received regularly at the same interest rate and premiums, discounts or other receipts orpayments are not involved in relation to the asset for which interest is received, interest receivable from thatasset for the period is the interest income from that asset for that period.

Disclosures

General disclosures about revenue

9.19An entity shall disclose:

(a)the accounting policies adopted for the recognition of revenue, including the methods adopted to determinethe stage of completion of transactions, where relevant; and

(b)the amount of each category of revenue recognised during the period, showing separately, at a minimum,revenue arising from:

(i)the sale of goods;

(ii)the rendering of services;

(iii)interest;

(iv)commissions; and

(v)any other significant types of revenue.

Disclosures relating to revenue from construction contracts

9.20An entity shall disclose the following:

(a)the amount of contract revenue recognised as revenue in the period;

(b)the methods used to determine the contract revenue recognised in the period; and

(c)the methods used to determine the stage of completion of contracts in progress.

9.21An entity shall present:

(a)the gross amount due from customers for contract work, as an asset; and

(b)the gross amount due to customers for contract work, as a liability.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201523A

Chapter 10 - Provisions and Contingencies

Scope

10.1This Chapter applies to all provisions (ie liabilities of uncertain timing or amount), contingent liabilities andcontingent assets except those provisions covered by other chapters of this Standard. These include provisionsrelating to:

(a)leases

(b)construction contracts

(c)employee benefit obligations; and

(d)income tax.

Initial recognition

10.2An entity shall recognise a provision only when:

(a)the entity has an obligation at the reporting date as a result of a past event;

(b)it is probable (i.e. more likely than not) that the entity will be required to transfer economic benefits insettlement; and

(c)the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.

10.3The entity shall recognise the provision as a liability in the statement of assets and liabilities and shall recognisethe amount of the provision as in the statement of profit or loss and retained earnings, unless another chapter ofthis standard requires the cost to be recognised as part of the cost of an asset such as inventories or property,plant and equipment.

Initial measurement

10.4An entity shall measure a provision at the best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation at thereporting date. The best estimate is the amount an entity would rationally pay to settle the obligation at the end ofthe reporting period or to transfer it to a third party at that time.

(a)When the provision involves a large population of items, the estimate of the amount reflects the weightingof all possible outcomes by their associated probabilities. Where there is a continuous range of possibleoutcomes, and each point in that range is as likely as any other, the mid-point of the range is used.

(b)When the provision arises from a single obligation, the individual most likely outcome may be the bestestimate of the amount required to settle the obligation. However, even in such a case, the entity considersother possible outcomes. When other possible outcomes are either mostly higher or mostly lower thanthe most likely outcome, the best estimate will be a higher or lower amount than the single most likelyoutcome.

Subsequent measurement

10.5An entity shall charge against a provision only those expenditures for which the provision was originallyrecognised.

10.6An entity shall review provisions at each reporting date and adjust them to reflect the current best estimate of theamount that would be required to settle the obligation at that reporting date. Any adjustments to the amountspreviously recognised shall be recognised in profit or loss unless the provision was originally recognised as partof the cost of an asset.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201524A

Contingent liabilities

10.7A contingent liability is either a possible but uncertain obligation or a present obligation that is not recognisedbecause it fails to meet one or both of the conditions (b) and (c) in paragraph 10.2. An entity shall not recognisea contingent liability as a liability. When an entity is jointly and severally liable for an obligation, the part of theobligation that is expected to be met by other parties is treated as a contingent liability.

Contingent assets

10.8A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only bythe occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of theentity. An entity shall not recognise a contingent asset as an asset. When the flow of future economic benefits tothe entity is virtually certain, then the related asset is not a contingent asset, and its recognition is appropriate.

Disclosures

Disclosures about provisions

10.9For each class of provision, an entity shall disclose all of the following:

(a)a reconciliation showing:

(i)the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period;

(ii)additions during the period;

(iii)amounts charged against the provision during the period; and

(iv)unused amounts reversed during the period;

(b)a brief description of the nature of the obligation and the expected amount and timing of any resultingpayments;

(c)an indication of the uncertainties about the amount or timing of those outflows; and

(d)the amount of any expected reimbursement, stating the amount of any asset that has been recognised forthat expected reimbursement.

Comparative information for prior periods is not required.

Disclosures about contingent liabilities

10.10Unless the possibility of any outflow of resources in settlement is remote, an entity shall disclose, for each classof contingent liability at the reporting date, a brief description of the nature of the contingent liability and, whenpracticable:

(a)an estimate of its financial effect

(b)an indication of the uncertainties relating to the amount or timing of any outflow; and

(c)the possibility of any reimbursement.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201525A

If after making every reasonable effort to do so, an entity cannot make one or more of these disclosures, that factshall be stated.

Disclosures about contingent assets

10.11If an inflow of economic benefits is probable (more likely than not) but not virtually certain (therefore not recognized),an entity shall disclose a description of the nature of the contingent assets at the end of the reporting period, and,when practicable without undue cost or effort, an estimate of their financial effect. If after making every reasonableeffort to do so, an entity cannot make this disclosure, that fact shall be stated.

Chapter 11 - Borrowing Cost

Scope11.1This chapter prescribes requirements relating to borrowing cost. Borrowing costs are interest and other coststhat an entity incurs in connection with borrowing of funds.

Recognition

11.2An entity shall recognise all borrowing costs as an expense in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

Disclosure

11.3An entity shall disclose total interest expenserecognised during the reporting period.

Chapter 12 – Foreign Currency Translation

Scope

12.1This chapter prescribes how to include foreign currency transactions in the financial statements of an entity.

Functional currency

12.2Each entity shall identify its functional currency. An entity’s functional currency is the currency of the primaryeconomic environment in which the entity operates.

Reporting foreign currency transactions in the functional currency

Initial recognition

12.3A foreign currency transaction is a transaction that is denominated or requires settlement in a foreign currency,including transactions arising when an entity:

(a)buys or sells goods or services whose price is denominated in a foreign currency;

(b)borrows or lends funds when the amounts payable or receivable are denominated in a foreign currency; or

(c)otherwise acquires or disposes of assets, or incurs or settles liabilities, denominated in a foreign currency.

12.4An entity shall record a foreign currency transaction, on initial recognition in the functional currency, by applyingto the foreign currency amount at the spot exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currencyat the date of the transaction.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201526A

12.5The date of a transaction is the date on which the transaction first qualifies for recognition in accordance withthis standard. For practical reasons, a rate that approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction is oftenused, for example;

(a)an average rate for a week or a month might be used for all transactions in each foreign currency occurringduring that period; or

(b)the rate at which related receivable or payable was settled may be used, if the settlement occurred within ashort period of the date of transaction.

Reporting at the end of subsequent reporting periods

12.6At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall:

(a)translate foreign currency monetary items using the closing exchange rate; and

(b)translate non-monetary items in a foreign currency using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction; and

12.7An entity shall recognise, in profit or loss in the period in which they arise, exchange differences arising on thesettlement of monetary items or on translating monetary items at rates different from those at which they weretranslated on initial recognition during the period or in previous periods.

Use of a presentation currency other than the functional currency

Translation to the presentation currency

12.8An entity may present its financial statements in any currency (or currencies). If the presentation currency differsfrom the entity’s functional currency, the entity shall translate its items of income, expense, assets and liabilitiesinto the presentation currency.

12.9An entity shall translate its items of income, expense, assets and liabilities into a different presentation currencyusing the following procedures:

(a)assets and liabilities for each statement of assets and liabilities presented shall be translated at the closingrate at the date of that statement of assets and liabilities;

(b)income and expenses for each statement of profit or loss and retained earnings shall be translated atexchange rates at the dates of the transactions; and

(c)all resulting exchange differences shall be recognised in the statement of profit or loss and retained earningsas an item which is not recognised in determining profit or loss of the reporting period, but recognised indetermining the retained earnings carried forward.

12.10For practical reasons, an entity may use a rate that approximates the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions,for example an average rate for the period, to translate income and expense items.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201527A

Chapter 13 - Related Party Disclosures

Scope

13.1This chapter requires an entity to include in its financial statements the disclosures necessary relating totransactions with related parties and outstanding balances with such parties.

Definition of a related party

13.2A related party is a person or entity that is related to the entity that is preparing its financial statements (thereporting entity).

13.3A person (or an entity) or a close member of that person’s family is related to a reporting entity if that person (orentity):

(a)has control over the reporting entity;

(b)has joint control or significant influence over the reporting entity or has significant voting power in it; or

(c)is an entity that is subject to control, joint control or significant influence of a related party.

Disclosures

Disclosure of subsidiary-parent relationships

13.4Relationships between a subsidiary and its parent shall be disclosed irrespective of whether there have beenrelated party transactions. An entity shall disclose the name of its parent and, if different, the ultimate controllingparty. If neither the entity’s parent nor the ultimate controlling party presents financial statements available forpublic use, the name of the next most senior parent that does so (if any) shall also be disclosed.

Disclosure of related party transactions

13.5A related party transaction is a transfer of resources, services or obligations between a reporting entity and arelated party, regardless of whether a price is charged. Examples of related party transactions include, but are notlimited to:

(a)transactions between an entity and its principal owner(s);

(b)transactions between an entity and another entity when both entities are under the common control of asingle entity or person; and

(c)transactions in which an entity or person that controls the reporting entity incurs expenses that otherwisewould have been borne by the reporting entity.

13.6If an entity has related party transactions, it shall disclose the nature of the related party relationship as well asinformation about the transactions, outstanding balances and commitments necessary for an understanding of thepotential effect of the relationship on the financial statements. Such transactions could include purchases, sales,or transfers of goods or services; leases; guarantees; and settlements by the entity on behalf of the related partyor vice versa.

13.7The following are examples of transactions that shall be disclosed if they are with a related party:

(a)purchases or sales of goods (finished or unfinished);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201528A

(b)purchases or sales of property and other assets;

(c)rendering or receiving of services, including as an employee or director;

(d)leases;

(e)transfers of research and development;

(f)transfers under licence agreements;

(g)transfers under finance arrangements (including loans and equity contributions in cash or in kind);

(h)provision of guarantees or collateral;

(i)settlement of liabilities on behalf of the entity or by the entity on behalf of another party; and

(j)participation by a parent in a defined benefit plan that shares risks between group entities.

13.8An entity shall not state that related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail inarm’s length transactions unless such terms can be substantiated.

13.9An entity may disclose items of a similar nature in the aggregate except when separate disclosure is necessaryfor an understanding of the effects of related party transactions on the financial statements of the entity.

Chapter 14 - Government Grants

Scope

14.1This chapter prescribes requirements relating to government grants. A government grantis assistance by agovernment in the form of a transfer of resources to an entity in return for past or future compliance withspecified conditions relating to the operating activities of the entity.

14.2Government grants exclude those forms of government assistance that cannot reasonably have a value placedupon them and transactions with a government that cannot be distinguished from the normal trading transactionsof the entity.

14.3This chapter does not cover government assistance that is provided for an entity in the form of benefits that areavailable in determining taxable profit or tax loss, or are determined or limited on the basis of income taxliability. Examples of such benefits are income tax holidays, investment tax credits, accelerated depreciationallowances and reduced income tax rates.

Recognition and measurement

14.4An entity shall recognise government grants as follows:

(a)A grant that does not impose specified future performance conditions on the recipient is recognised inincome when the grant proceeds are receivable.

(b)A grant that imposes specified future performance conditions on the recipient is recognised in incomeonly when the performance conditions are met.

(c)A grant that is provided to incur an expense is recognised in income in the periods in which the expense isrecognised in profit or loss.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201529A

(d)A grant that is provided to acquire an asset is recognised in a systematic basis over the useful life of theasset.

(e)Grants received before the revenue recognition criteria are satisfied are recognised in the statement ofassets and liabilitiesas deferred income.

14.5An entity shall measure grants at the value of the asset received or receivable.

Disclosures

14.6An entity shall disclose the following about government grants:

(a)the nature and amounts of government grants recognised in the financial statements;

(b)unfulfilled conditions and other contingencies attaching to government grants that have not been recognisedin income; and

(c)an indication of other forms of government assistance from which the entity has directly benefited.

Chapter15 –Other Assets and Liabilities

Trade and other receivables

15.1 An entity shall recognise and measure a trade or other receivable initially at transaction price.

15.2 An entity shall review and consider whether the amount receivable at the end of the reporting period is recoverable.

15.3 If the amount receivable (or a part of it), cannot be recovered and if the entity has decided not to make furtherattempts to recover the same, the entity may reduce the amount receivable by the relevant amount and recognise itin profit or loss, as an irrecoverable receivable.

15.4 An entity shall review the amounts receivable at the end of the reporting period, to assess the extent to which theamounts shown as receivable are likely to be recovered. The entity shall measure trade and other receivablesrecognised in the statement of assets and liabilities at the amounts likely to recovered and the differences shall berecognized in profit or loss, as allowance for impairment of receivables.

Shares in listed companies

15.5Shares traded in a stock exchange shall be measured at the volume weighted average price of trades in the lasttrading period before the end of the reporting period as regularly disclosed by the relevant stock exchange.

15.6If, a share listed in a stock exchange was suspended from trading in that exchange, at the end of the reportingperiod, the entity shall measure the shares in the statement of assets and liabilities at its most probable value onthat date.

Shares in other companies

15.7Shares in companies which are not quoted in a stock exchange shall be measured at cost or net asset valuewhichever is lower. The net asset value of the shares shall be ascertained based on the general purpose financialstatements of that entity.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201530A

Loans payable

15.8Loans payable by the entity shall be measured at the amount repayable.

15.9A loan for which the amount repayable within a year was less than the amount repayable after one year at the timethe loan was received is classified as a non-current liability. Any other loan is classified as a current liability.

15.10Unpaid interest accrued up to the end of the reporting period shall be recognised as a liability in the statement ofassets and liabilities.

Trade and other payables

15.11An entity shall recognise and measure a trade or other payable initially at transaction price.

15.12The amount remaining payable at the end of the reporting period shall be recognised as a liability in the statementof assets and liabilities.

Tax on profit or loss

15.13An entity shall recognise the amounts payable as tax on its profits or losses up to the end of the reporting period,based on the amounts payable computed in accordance with the relevant statutes.

Disclosures

15.14An entity shall disclose the following items:

(a)Amounts recognised in profit or loss for irrecoverable receivables;

(b)Amounts recognised in profit or loss as allowance for impairment of receivables; and

(c)An analysis of the age of trade and other receivables that are past due at the end of the reporting period.

Chapter 16 - Events after the End of the Reporting Period

Events after the end of the reporting period defined

16.1Events after the end of the reporting period are those events that occur between the end of the reporting periodand the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Recognition and measurement

Adjusting events after the end of the reporting period

16.2 An entity shall adjust the amounts recognised in its financial statements, or recognise items that were not previouslyrecognised, including related disclosures, to reflect adjusting events after the end of the reporting period.Adjustingevents after the end of the reporting period are those events that provide evidence of conditions that existed atthe end of the period.

16.3Examples include:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201531A

(a)the receipt of information after the end of the reporting period indicating that an asset was impaired atthe end of the reporting period,or that the amount of a previously recognised impairment loss for thatasset needs to be adjusted. For example:

(i)the bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the end of thereporting period usually confirmsthat a loss existed at the end ofthe reporting period on a trade receivable and that the entityneeds to adjust the carrying amount of the trade receivable; and

(ii)the sale of inventories after the end of the reporting period may give evidence about theirselling price at the end of the reporting period for the purpose of assessing amount recoverableat that date.

(b)the determination after the end of the reporting period of the cost of assets purchased, or the proceedsfrom assets sold, before the end of the reporting period.

Non-adjusting events after the end of the reporting period

16.4An entity shall not adjust the amounts recognised in its financial statements toreflect non-adjusting events afterthe end of the reporting period. Non-adjusting events after the end of the reporting period are those events thatare indicative of conditions that arose after the end of the reporting period.

16.5An example of a non-adjusting event after the end of the reporting period is a loss caused by flood, fire, or otherevent that occurred after the end of the reporting period.

Dividends

16.6If an entity declares dividends to its shareholders after the end of the reporting period, the entity shall not recognisethose dividends as aliability at the end of the reporting period.

Disclosure

Date of authorisation for issue

16.7An entity shall disclose the date when the financial statements were authorised for issue and who gave thatauthorisation.

Chapter 17 - Transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities

Scope

17.1This chapter applies to a first-time adopter of SLFRS for Smaller Entities, regardless of whether its previousbasis of financial reporting was SLFRSs, SLFRS for SMEs or any other basis.

First-time adoption

17.2A first-time adopter of SLFRS for Smaller Entities shall apply the requirements of this chapter in its first financialstatements that conform to SLFRS for Smaller Entities.

17.3An entity’s first financial statements that conform to SLFRS for Smaller Entities are the first annual financialstatements in which the entity makes an explicit and unreserved statement in those financial statements ofcompliance with SLFRS for Smaller Entities. Financial statements prepared in accordance with this standard arean entity’s first such financial statements if, the entity:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201532A

(a)did not present financial statements for previous periods;

(b)presented its most recent previous financial statements based on principles not consistent with SLFRSfor Smaller Entities in all respects; or

(c)presented its most recent previous financial statements in conformity with SLFRSs or SLFRS for SMEs.

17.4An entity’s date of transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entitiesis the beginning of the reporting period for which theentity presents its first financial statements that conform to SLFRS for Smaller Entities. An entity shall preparean opening statement of assets and liabilities as at the date of transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities.

Procedures for preparing financial statements at the date of transition

17.5Except as provided in subsequent paragraphs, an entity shall, in its opening statement of assets and liabilities (asat the date of transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities):

(a)recognise all assets and liabilities for which recognition is required by SLFRS for Smaller Entities;

(b)not recognise items as assets or liabilities if SLFRS for Smaller Entities does not permit such recognition;

(c)reclassify each item that it recognised under its previous basis of financial reportingas one type ofasset, liability or component of equity, but is a different type of asset, liability or component of equityunder SLFRS for Smaller Entities; and

(d)apply SLFRS for Smaller Entities in measuring all recognised assets and liabilities.

17.6The accounting policies that an entity uses in its opening statement of assets and liabilities (as at the date oftransition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities)under SLFRS for Smaller Entities may differ from those that it usedusing its previous basis of financial reporting. The resulting adjustments arise from transactions, other events orconditions before the date of transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities. Therefore, an entity shall recognise thoseas adjustments to retained earnings (or, if appropriate, another category of equity) at the date of transition toSLFRS for Smaller Entities.

17.7An entity that has presented its most recent previous financial statements in compliance with SLFRSs or SLFRSfor SMEs may elect to use the revalued amount of an item of property, plant and equipment used in presentingfinancial statements in compliance with SLFRSs or SLFRS for SMEs, as the carrying value of that item on thedate of such revaluation, in presenting its financial statements in compliance with this standard.

Presentation of comparative information

17.8An entity shall present its opening statement of assets and liabilities (as at the date of transition to SLFRS forSmaller Entities) prepared in accordance with this standard, as comparative information, in its first financialstatements that conform to SLFRS for Smaller Entities.

17.9An entity may present comparative information relating to the previous financial period in the statement of profitor loss and retained earnings, of its first financial statements prepared using SLFRS for Smaller Entities, basedon the principles of recognition and measurement of the general purpose financial statements presented by theentity for that period, and disclose that fact in the notes.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201533A

Disclosures

Explanation of transition to SLFRS for Smaller Entities17.10An entity shall explain how the transition from its previous basis of financial reporting to SLFRS for SmallerEntities affected its reported equity and financial performance.

Reconciliations

17.11To comply with the preceding paragraph, an entity’s first financial statements prepared using SLFRS for SmallerEntities shall include:

(a)a description of the nature of each change in accounting policy; and

(b)a reconciliation of its equity determined in accordance with the basis of financial reporting used previously,with its equity determined in accordance with the SLFRS for Smaller Entities on the date of transition toSLFRS for Smaller Entities.

17.12If an entity did not present general purpose financial statements for previous periods, it shall disclose that fact inits first financial statements that comply with SLFRS for Smaller Entities.

Effective Date

17.13SLFRS for Smaller Entities becomes operative for financial statements covering periods beginning on or after01 January 2016. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies this standard for a period beginning before01 January 2016, it shall disclose that fact

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201534A

Illustrative presentation of financial statementsThis Illustrative presentation of financial statements accompanies SLFRS for Smaller Entities, but is not part of thestandard.Name of the entityStatement of Assets and Liabilities as at 31 March 20X2

As at 31 March20X220X1RsRsASSETS

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipmentXX

Shares in unquoted companiesXX

Bank deposits – Long termXX

XX

Current assets

InventoriesXX

Shares in quoted companiesXX

Receivables from related partiesXX

Trade and other receivablesXX

Cash and cash equivalentsXX

XX

Total assetsXX

EQUITY AND LIABILITIES

Equity

Stated capitalXX

Retained earningsXX

Total equityXX

XX

Non-current liabilities

Bank loans –long termXX

Loans – long termXX

Long term employee benefit obligationXX

XX

Current Liabilities

Bank loans – short termXX

Tax payableXX

Payables to related partiesXX

Trade and other payablesXXXXTotal liabilitiesXXEquity and liabilitiesXX

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201535A

Name of the entityStatement of profit or loss and retained earningsfor the year ended 31 March 20X2

Year ended 31 March20X220X1

RsRs

RevenueXX

Cost of salesXX

Gross profitXX

Other incomeXX

Distribution costsXX

Administrative expensesXX

Other expensesXX

Finance costsXX

Profit before taxXX

Income taxXX

Profit for the yearXX

Retained Earnings:

Retained earnings at the commencement of the yearXX

Corrections of prior period errorsXX

Effect of changes in accounting policy relating to prior periodsXX

Adjusted retained earnings at the commencement of the yearXX

Profit for the yearXX

DividendsXX

Retained earnings at the end of the yearXX

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201536A

Name of the entityStatement of cash flowsfor the year ended 31 March 20X2RsRsCash flows from operating activitiesProfit before taxationXAdjustments for:DepreciationXInvestment income(X)Interest expenseXXIncrease in trade and other receivables(X)Decrease in inventoriesXDecrease in trade payables(X)Cash generated from operationsXInterest paid(X)Income taxes paid (X)

Net cash from operating activitiesX

Cash flows from investing activitiesPurchase of property, plant and equipment(X)Proceeds from sale of equipmentXInterest receivedXDividends receivedX

Net cash used in investing activities(X)

Cash flows from financing activitiesProceeds from issue of share capitalXProceeds from long term borrowingsXDividends paid(X)

Net cash used in financing activities(X)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalentsXCash and cash equivalents at beginning of periodXCash and cash equivalents at end of periodX

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201537A

Comparison with SLFRSs

The comparison with SLFRSs accompanies SLFRS for Smaller Entities, but is not part of the standard.

SLFRS 1First-time adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting standards (SLFRSs)Simplified

SLFRS 2Share-based paymentNot included

SLFRS 3Business combinationsNot included

SLFRS 4Insurance ContractsNot included

SLFRS 5Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operationsNot included

SLFRS 6Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resourcesNot included

SLFRS 7Financial Instruments: DisclosureModified

SLFRS 8Operating segmentsNot included

SLFRS 9Financial InstrumentsNot included

SLFRS 10Consolidated financial statementsNot included

SLFRS 11Joint arrangementsNot included

SLFRS 12Disclosure of interests in other entitiesNot included

SLFRS 13Fair value measurementNot included

SLFRS 14Regulatory deferral accountsNot included

SLFRS 15Revenue from contracts with customersModified

LKAS 1Presentation of financial statementsSimplified

LKAS 2InventoriesSimplified

LKAS 7Statement of cash flowsNot included

LKAS 8Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errorsSimplified

LKAS 10Events after the reporting periodSimplified

LKAS 11Construction contractsSimplified

LKAS 12Income taxesModified

LKAS 16Property, plant and equipmentSimplified

LKAS 17LeasesModified

LKAS 18RevenueSimplified

SLFRSReference

Requirements inSLFRS for SmallerEntities

Description of SLFRS

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201538A

LKAS 19Employee benefitsModified

LKAS 20Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistanceSimplified

LKAS 21The effects of changes to foreign exchange ratesSimplified

LKAS 23Borrowing costsModified

LKAS 24Related party disclosuresSimplified

LKAS 26Accounting and reporting by retirement benefit plansNot included

LKAS 27Consolidated and separate financial statementsNot included

LKAS 28Investments in associatesNot included

LKAS 29Financial reporting in hyperinflationary economiesNot included

LKAS 31Interests in joint venturesNot included

LKAS 32Financial instruments: PresentationModified

LKAS 33Earnings per shareNot included

LKAS 34Interim financial reportingNot included

LKAS 36Impairment of assetsModified

LKAS 37Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assetsSimplified

LKAS 38Intangible assetsNot included

LKAS 39Financial instruments: Recognition and measurementModified

LKAS 40Investment propertyModified

LKAS 41AgricultureNot included

Simplified means the requirements have been simplified without significant modification to the principles on which the

standard was based.

Modified means the requirements have been significantly modified to reduce complexity and improve cost effectiveness for

a smaller entity.

Not included means the requirements of the standard have not been included.

SLFRSReference

Requirements inSLFRS for SmallerEntities

Description of SLFRS

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201539A

Comparison with SLFRS for SMEs

1Small and medium sized entitiesNot applicable

2Concepts and pervasive principlesSimplified

3Financial statement presentationSimplified

4Statement of financial positionSimplified

5Statement of comprehensive income and income statementSimplified

6Statement of changes in equity and statement of income and retained earningsSimplified

7Statement of cash flowsSimplified

8Notes to the financial statementsSimplified

9Consolidated and separate financial statementsNot included

10Accounting policies, estimates and errorsSimplified

11Basic financial instrumentsModified

12Other financial instruments issuesModified

13InventoriesSimplified

14Investments in associatesNot included

15Investments in joint venturesNot included

16Investment propertyModified

17Property, plant and equipmentSimplified

18Intangible assets other than goodwillNot included

19Business combinations and goodwillNot included

20LeasesModified

21Provisions and contingenciesSimplified

22Liabilities and EquityModified

23RevenueSimplified

24Government grantsClarified

25Borrowing costsModified

26Share-based paymentNot included

27Impairment of assetsModified

SLFRSReference

Requirements inSLFRS for SmallerEntities

Description of SLFRS

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.201540A

28Employee benefitsModified

29Income taxModified

30Foreign exchange translationSimplified

31HyperinflationNot included

32Events after the end of the reporting periodSimplified

33Related party disclosuresSimplified

34Specialised activitiesNot included

35Transition to SLFRS for SMEsModified

Simplified means the requirements have been simplified without significant modification to the principles on whichthe chapter was based.

Modified means the requirements have been significantly modified to reduce complexity and improve costeffectiveness for a smaller entity.

Not included means the requirements of the chapter have not been included.

12-413

SLFRSfor SME sChapter

Requirements inSLFRS forSmaller EntitiesDescription of Chapter in SLFRS for SMEs

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.