THE UNIVERSITIES ACT, No. 16 OF 1978

Order under Section 27(l)(b) read with Section 25A

BY virtue of powers vested in me by Section 27(1 )(b) read with Section 25A of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, I, Dr. Harini Amarasuriya, the Minister of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education having obtained a report under Section 70C of the aforesaid Act, in respect of the Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (Guarantee) Limited, a company incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 and bearing Registration Number GL 24, being recognized as a Degree Awarding Institute, do by this Order, amend the Schedule II to the Order made under the said Act and published in Gazette Extraordinary, No. 2424/59 of February 20, 2025, by the addition immediately after entry “Master of Science in Artificial Intelligence” appearing in Column I and its corresponding entry in Column II thereof, of the entries specified under Column I and II respectively of the Schedule II hereto, subject to the conditions specified in Schedule I hereto:-SCHEDULE I

Conditions

Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (Guarantee) Limited shall, when admitting students for the degree programme specified in Schedule II hereto in respect of;

1. Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Logistic and Supply Chain Management, Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Marketing Management, Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Management Information Systems, Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Business Management and Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Quality Management with a minimum of 120 Credits (SLQF Level 6), adhere to the minimum entry qualification of;

w;s úfYI

wxl 2450$40 - 2025 wf.daia;= ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025'08'21No. 2450/40 - THURSDAY, AUGUST 21, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) - GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A - PG 7230 - 284 (08/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'08'21Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.08.20252A

(a) Three (3) simple passes (S) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.E (Advanced Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examination of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification.

2. Bachelor of Science Honours in Data Science and Bachelor of Science Honours in Software Engineering with a minimum of 120 Credits (SLQF Level 6), adhere to the minimum entry qualification of;

(a) At least three (3) simple passes (S) in Physical Science stream or Engineering Technology stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or Equivalent Qualification; or

(b) At least three (3) simple passes (S) in any stream in one and the same sitting at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a Credit pass (C) in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and the successful completion of a Bridging Programme approved by Specified Authority; or (c) At least three (3) simple passes (S) in any stream in one and the same sitting with a simple pass (S) for Information & Communication Technology, in any attempt at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification and a Credit pass (C) in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka or equivalent qualification.

3. Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (Guarantee) Limited is recognized to offer the degrees specified in Schedule II hereto subject to the five (5) year periodic review conducted by the Specified Authority.

SCHEDULE II

Column IDegreeColumn IIAbbreviations for Degree

Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Logistic and Supply Chain ManagementBBA Hons (Logistic and Supply Chain Management)

Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Marketing ManagementBBA Hons (Marketing Management)

Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Management Information SystemsBBA Hons (Management Information Systems)

Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Business ManagementBBA Hons (Business Management)

Bachelor of Business Administration Honours in Quality ManagementBBA Hons (Quality Management)

Bachelor of Science Honours in Data ScienceBSc Hons (Data Science)

Bachelor of Science Honours in Software EngineeringBSc Hons (Software Engineering)

Dr. Harini Amarasuriya, Minister of Education, Higher Education and Vocational Education.

Colombo,14th August, 2025.

EOG 08 - 0232

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.