==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.20181A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A – G28283 – 29 (08/2018)

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 2084$27 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 15 jeks nodod – 2018'08'15No. 2084/27 – WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 15, 2018

My No. : CI / 1843.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between SANASA Development Bank PLC, No. 12, Edmonton Road, Kirulapone,Colombo 06 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 15th

day of March 2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative

Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,

Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,

Labour Secretariat,

Colombo 05.

2nd August, 2018.

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

Collective Agreement No. 23 of 2018

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

SANASA Development Bank PLC of No. 12, Edmonton Road, Kirulapone, Colombo 06of the one part

And

Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10,of the other part

This Collective Agreement is made on this Fifteenth (15th) day of March, Two Thousand and Eighteen (15th March, 2018), byand between SANASA Development Bank PLC of the one part (hereinafter referred to as “the Bank”) and the Ceylon BankEmployees’s Union of the other part (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”).

Title.–This Agreement will be known and referred to as “SANASA DEVELOPMENT BANK COLLECTIVEAGREEMENT” with “THE CEYLON BANK EMPLOYEES’ UNION” for the period First day of January, Two Thousand andEighteen to Thirty First day of December, Two Thousand and Twenty (01.01.2018 - 31.12.2020).

1. Employer to be Covered and Bound.–

(a) This Agreement shall cover and bind the SANASA Development bank PLC, which is a party to this Agreement.

2. Employees to be Covered and Bound.–

(a) This Agreement shall cover and bind members of the Union in employment with the SANASA DevelopmentBank PLC and who are employed in any of the categories as at the date of signing of the agreement for which asalary revision has been prescribed in this Agreement as follows:

(i) Phase 1-01st January 2018 to 31st June 2019 - 20% increase from the Basic salary as at 31st December 2017described in the Schedule 1 attached hereto.

(ii) Phase 11 - 01st July 2019 to 31st December 2020 - 13% increase from the basic salary as at 30th June 2019described in the schedule 1 attached hereto.

(b) Its agreed that salaries of Chief Manager Grade will also be taken up and included in the next collective agreementdue with effect from 1st January 2021 provided that chief Manager grade is eligible to be taken into theagreement.

3. Date of Operation and Duration.–

(a) This Agreement shall be in force from 1st day of January Two Thousand and Eighteen (01.01.2018 ) and shallcontinue until either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the industrial Disputes Act, as amended.However, that no party shall give such notice to the other party before the Thirty First (31st) day of DecemberTwo Thousands and Twenty (31st December 2020). The union shall, however, have the right to commencenegotiations for a revised Collective agreement at any time on or after 1st April 2020.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.20183A

4. Matters Covered and Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits .–

(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters whichare covered by this Agreement and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before theconclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of thisAgreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding thisAgreement other than the matters relating to non - salary benefits which shall be discussed by the Managementof the Bank with the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union which described in the Schedule 2 attached here to andreach finality within six months from the execution of this agreement. After an Agreement has been arrived at, asregard non - salary benefits the terms and conditions of same shall be annexed to this Agreement, which shallfrom an integral part thereof.

(b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this Agreement that they shall not during the continuance inforce of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment orbenefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided in this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.

5. Salary Structure.–

(a) As from First day of January Two Thousand and Eighteen (01st January 2018) each employee covered andbound by this Agreement shall be paid and subject to other terms and conditions herein contained.

6. Conversion of the Basic Salary.–

(a) The basic salaries of all employees will be converted to the revised salaries by applying the revision by step forstep (point by point) method of conversion.

(b) Non-Banking Stream personnel shall also be placed at the appropriate revised salary on the same basis.

7. Other Commitments.–

(a) The Union further agrees to assist, cooperate and support the management of the Bank in every manner to obtainthe maximum contribution of its members to achieve the targets set out in the Business plan of the Bank.

(b) The Union and its members covered and bound by this agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank thatduring the continuous in force of this agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Unionaction including go - slow, boycott or demonstration or picketing of any form or collective action aginst the Bankin respect of any dispute related to this agreement other than the matters relating to non-salary benefits whichdescribed in the Schedule 2 attached hereto and shall be discussed by the Management of the bank with theCeylon Bank Employees’ Union and reach finality within six months. However, a dispute arising out of a failednegotiation for a fresh collective agreement after 31st day of December 2020, cannot be construed interpretedand /or implied by both parties as a dispute related to this agreement.

(c) In the event there been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a freshcollective agreement aforesaid, and if the parent union decides to resort to any form of trade union action , theparent union shall inform in writing to the bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and the CommissionerGeneral of Labour before the date of such Trade union action. However such notice shall not be given prior to31st December 2020.

(d) If during the continuance of this Agreement, the Government prescribes increases in salary by any written law,applicable to the Bank, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increase granted in terms of thisagreement. However, if the Government recommends increases in wages or salaries, such recommendations willnot be applicable to the Employer and the Employees.

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.20185A

SCHEDULE (2)

Non-Salary benefits to be taken up for discussion

1.Risk allowance for officer who handle safe keys of Branches-Phase 12.Distance allowance for officers who work at Head Office and Centralized units -Phase 13.Branch grading allowance - Phase 14.Holiday allowance - Phase 15.Risk allowance for officers who perform teller functions at Branches - Phase II6.Out of pocket allowance for officers who perform work on week days beyond normalworking hours subject to ceilling - Phase II7.Fuel allowance for Assistant Manager Grade-Phase II8.Subsistence allowance-Phase II

For and on behalf of

08 - 1074

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

My No. : CI / 1852.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between State Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri Lanka, No. 75, Sir Baron JayathilakaMawatha, Colombo 01 of the one part and the Jathika Sewaka Sangamaya, Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya And FourOther Unions of the other part on 25th December 2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act,Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner Genaral of Labour.Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.03th August, 2018.

Collective Agreement No. 05 of 2018

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2017

Entered into betweenState Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri Lanka Colombo 01of the one part

and

The Jathika Sewaka Sangamaya, Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya and Four Other Unions Mention Herinof the other part.

THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT is made on 15.12.2017 by and between the State Pharmaceuticals Corporation Of Sri Lanka(Established under the State Industrial Coporations Act, No. 49 of 1957 and Gazette Notification No. 14, 976/3-1971 September22nd of Wednesday) and having its head office at ‘’No. 75, Sir Baron Jayathilaka Mawatha, Colombo 01, of the one part(hereinafter reffered to as ‘’the SPC’’) and the following unions.

1. Jathika Sewaka Sangamaya’2. Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka Sangamaya3. State Pharmaceuticals Corporation Executive Officers’ Association4. Eksath Rajya Sewa Aushada Sanstha Sewaka Sangamaya5. Aushada Sanstha Sewaka Sangamaya6. Rajya Aushada Neethigatha Sansthawa Oushada Weedeenge Sangamaya.

This Collective Agreement shall be known and reffered to as the ‘’State Pharmaceuticals Corporation of Sri LankaCollective Agreement 2017 with the all SPC Unions mentioned herein before.

1. Employer to be bound. – State Pharmaceuticals Coporation of Sri Lanka.

2. Employees to be covered and bound. – This collective Agreement shall cover are bind inter alia all permanentemployees of State Pharmaceuticals Corporatopn of Sri Lanka in the relevant categories of the Salary scales contained inAnnex 1 in this collective agreement.

3. Date of Operation and Duration. – This Agreement shall come into effect from 01.07.2017, and thereafter continueto be in force, unless it is repudiated by either party by giving six months notice in writing to the other party. However, it isagreed further that no party shall give such notice to the other party before expiry of 30 months from the date of this agreement,and such notice shall be effective after expiry of 36 months (i. e. 30.06.2020) from the date of this agreement.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.20187A

4. Parties agree that htey should commence discussions for renegotiations of the terms and conditions of this agreementor for formulation of new collective agreement before the expiry of this agreement.

5. Matters covered and variation of terms and conditions of employment and benefits. – It is agreed this CollectiveAgreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all matters raised by presentativesrepresenting the membership of the said all unions in relation to the period of 36 month (3 years) from the date of thisagreement, in respect of which negotiations have already taken place and matters have been agreed upon by all before theexecution of this Agreement Hence it is agreed that during the continuance of this Collective Agreement matters discussed,negotiated and agreed upon between the parties as reflect herein shall remain to be in force and that no Union of the SPC willduring the period this Collective Agreement will resort to any trade union action such as work to rule, picketing, strikes and willalso not to vary, alter or add any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits applicable or enjoyed as provided forin this Agreement, other than in an event where an annual salary increment of 25 precent (25%) or over has been granted to theCorporation employees.

6. Salary Components. – As from the date execution of this Collective Agreement, each eployee covered and boundby this Agreement shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained a monthly salary whichcomprises the following components;

(i) As per Annex 01 attached to letter dated 14.12.2017 of Director General, Department of public Enterprises ofGeneral Treasury.

(ii) Further;

(a) Any advantage given to corporation employees in terms of any Circular instruction issued by the Secretaryto the Treasury, the Secretary, Public Administration (only the circulars spplicable to State Corporation andStatutory Boards), will continue to be applicable to the employees of the SPC, as may be relevant; and

(b) The Cost of living Allowance (COLA) or related adjustments as may be announced in the annual Budget willalso be extended to the employees of SPC, as may be relevent, view of the fact that a separate COLAadjustment did not form part of this Collective Agreement.

(c) The travelling Allowance not relevant for the employees who are entitled to vehicle benefit including fuelAllowance approved by Government.

(d) All other non salary benefits enjoyed by employees to be continued separately and will not change unlessprior approval is granted by the Treasury.

7. Taxes on Emoluments. - For avoidance of doubt, it is acknowledge the paye tax on emoluments shall be continuedto be borne by employees.

8. Methodology Of Converting existing salary to proposed salary. - The salaries of employees will be converted tothe revised scale by applying the step for step (point by point) method of conversion. As per annexed salary scales.

Eg: An employee, who had o the 5th step of the scale as at the date immediately prior to the Effective date of thisAgreement will be placed on 05th step of the relevant revised scale with effect from Effective date of this collectiveagreement.

9. Conversion Anomalies. - Parties jointly agree to excecte this Agreement on the basis that any anomaly associatedwith the calculation of increments will be reffered to a Committee comprising of one member from Ministry of Health, TreasuryRepresentative, representatives of the SPC (3 members) and presidents of the unions to which the respective employee isattached. Such committee shall be appointed within a month from the date of this Agreement and its recommendations shall begiven within 3 months three from.

8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

10. Other Commitments. - The Unions agree that the employees will take all endeavors to enhance the productivity ofthe operations of SPC through which a growth of 10% turnover excluding procurment oders placed by the Ministry of Health,Nutrition and Indigenous Medicines to be achieved by the SPC and should maintain adequate profitability at the end of theyear.

11. Incidental Matters on to be covered. - The parties hereby agreed to all other matters incidental to this Agreementnot dealt with herein shall be governed by applicable laws, regulations and Circular Instructions applicable. However theunion retains the right to raise any issue which they consider as unreasonable to its members.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.20189A

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.201811A

08 - 1075

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

My No. : CI/ 1857

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Yala Village (Pvt) Limited, No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,Colombo 02 of the one part and the Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union,513 -2/ 1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 6th April 2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of theIndustrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.07th August, 2018.

Collective Agreement No. 12 of 2018

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

BETWEEN

Yala Village (Pvt) Limited

AND

Food Beverages & Tobacco Industries Employees Union

entered in to on this 06th day of April, 2018

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

This Collective Agreement entered into on this 06th day of April, Two Thousand and Eighteen between Yala Village (Pvt)Limited, a Company duly registered and having its registered office at No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,Colombo 02 (hereinafter referred to as “the Employer” or “the Company”) of the One part and between Food Beverages &Tobacco Industries Employees Union, a Trade Union duly registered and having its registered office atNo. 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as '' the Union") of the Other Part.

Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows :

Title.– This Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the “Cinnamon Wild Yala CollectiveAgreement of 2018”.

1. Parties Covered and Bound.–

The terms of this Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the members of the Union employedon permanent contracts in the grades covered by the Hotel and Catering Wages Board and are in employment atCinnamon Wild Yala (A hotel owned by the company), at the time of signing of this Agreement.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.201813A

2. Date of Operation and Duration.–

This Collective Agreement shall be effective from 01st of April 2018, and shall continue to be in force unless it isterminated by either party giving One months’ notice to the other party, in writing, provided however, that no suchnotice shall be given by either party prior to the 28th day of February, 2020 and such notice shall not take effect andthis Agreement shall not stand terminated prior to 31st of March, 2020.

Any notice given by a party prior to the 28th day of February, 2020 shall have no effect whatsoever.

3. Salary Increase.–

(1) (a)The Employer agrees to revise the salaries of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreementbased on their performance rating for the period 2017/2018 in the following manner with effect from 1stApril 2018, on an exceptional basis:

Grade of the employee

12345

10000026%6%6%6%6%312%12%12%12%12%414.5%14.5%14.5%14.5%14.5%515%15%15%15%15%

(b)An employee who obtaines a performance rating of 2 for the period 2017/18 will be granted an incrementof 6% of the basic salary or Rs. 800/- whichever is higher.

(2) (a)The salaries of the employees covered by this agreement will be further revised based on theirperformance rating for the period 2018/19 in the following manner with effect from 1st April 2019.

Grade of the employee

12345

100000

26%6%6%6%6%

312%12%12%12%12%

414%14%14%14%14%

515%15%15%15%15%

(b)An employee who obtains a performance rating of 2 for the period 2018/19 will be granted anincrement of 6% of the basic salary or Rs. 800/- which ever is higher.

4. The Union, together with thier members, hereby undertake that during the period of operation of this Agreement,they shall extend thier fullest co-operation to the Company to carry out all its lawful activities.

5. For avoidance of doubt, the Union and the members agree that the salary increase granted by the employer in April,2015 is an increase for which the employer can take credit in terms of the provisions of the Budgetary ReliefAllowance of Workers Act, No. 4 of 2016.

PerformanceRating

PerformanceRating

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

6. The Union and members further agree that they shall not make any demands and / or pursue any matter before anyauthority for wage increases or any payments or benefit over and above those stated in this agreement.

7. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government prescribes increase in salary by any writtenlaw, applicable to the Company, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increases granted in applying theterms of this Agreement. However, if the Government recommends increases in wages, such recommendations willnot be applicable to the Employer and the Employees and this agreement shall prevail.

8. Hours of Work.-

(a)The normal working hours and the meal break shall be in accordance with shop and Office Employees’ (Regu-lation of Employment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954.

(b)It is acknowledged by the parties that normal working hours may be structured from time to time according tothe requirements of the employer and in a manner to be consistent with the applicable law and commensuratewith the practices in the industry.

9. Overtime.-

(a)If required by the Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by theEmployer. Refusal to work overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to theEmployer shall constitute neglect of duty for which an employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinaryaction.

(b)Overtime work (i.e work performed in excess of normal working hours) performed by an employee on requestwhich is approved by the supervisor shall be remunerated at one and half (11/2) times the normal hourly rateascertained in accordance with the provisions of Shop and Office Employees’ (Regulation ofEmployment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954 as amended, subject to applicability of overtime paymentsfor such employees.

10. Leave.-

(a)Annual Leave. -An employee shall be entitled to 14 days annual leave with full remuneration subject to the provisions set outin the Shop and Office Employees’ (Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954 asamended.

(b)Casual/Sick Leave -An employee shall be entitled to 07 days Casual/Sick leave with full remuneration subject to the provisionsset out in the Shop and Office Employees’ (Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954as amended.

(c)At the discretion of the management special medical leave will be granted on a case by case basis followingthe current practice. Such special medical leave shall be considered only for critical illnesses andhospitalization and the duration of the leave will be decided case by case at the discretion of themanagement, and this special leave shall be granted only in the event if an employee has no lieu leave orcasual/sick leave to avail for the period of absence.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.201815A

11. Maternity and Paternity Leave.–

(a)Maternity LeaveA female employee shall be entitled to maternity leave and benefits during the period covered by the prevail-ing contact in terms of the provisions of the Shop and Office Employees’ (regulation of Employment andRemuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954 as amended.

(b)Paternity LeaveA male employee, in relation to a child birth shall be entitled to 3 days paternity leave, to enable him to assistin the provision of care to his child and the mother of the child. This leave should be taken within 30 days fromthe date of child birth.

12. Statutory/Public Holidays.– Statutory/Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with theprovisions of the Shop and Office Employees’ (Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954 as amended.

13. Weekly Holidays.–

(a)Weekly holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the provisions of the Shop and OfficeEmployees’ (Regulation of Employment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954 as amended.

(b)Weekly holidays so due in respect of any four consecutive weeks in any month may be granted inaccumulation at any time in that year.

14. Productivity Improvement.– The management intends pursuing different operating models to enhanceefficiencies and implement various productivity improvement initiatives and other mechanisms such as reducing the employeeto room ratio, multitasking, job rotation and job enlargement. The employees and the union commit their fullest cooperation tothe employer to enhance productivity levels in the hotel.

15. Share of Profits.– The employer may at its discretion pay annually a share of profits of the Company. This sum maybe paid in not more than 3 installments.

16. Service Charge.–

(a) The employees covered and bound by this agreement shall be entitled to a monthly service charge which willbe distributed in the following manner, after retaining 8% of the total amount, for breakages and losses and 2%for staff welfare.

1st year of service - 25%2nd year of service - 50%3rd year of service - 75%4th year of service and thereafter - 100%

(b) At recruitment Employees who have previous experience and/or competencies will be placed at a suitablepoint/level in the above scheme at the discretion of the management.

(c) Parties agree that although trainees are not covered by this collective agreement, at the discretion of themanagement a service charge of 25% will continue to be paid to trainees after completion of 6 months training.If any trainees continue beyond 12 months the above mentioned service charge distribution scheme will beapplicable.

17. Medical Benefits.– The medical benefits scheme which is operated through a contributory Insurance scheme willcontinue during the operational period of this agreement.

16AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

18. Uniform.– Employer will provide each employee with 4 sets of uniforms and a pair of shoes per year and theemployees are required to be in uniform whilst on duty at the work place and maintain the uniforms and shoes in a goodcondition.

19. Life Insurance Cover.– In the event of death of an employee a sum of LKR 100,000/- will be paid through the lifeinsurance cover for those who are covered under the company medical insurance scheme.

20. Retirement Age.–On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall, ipso facto, retire and case to be employed and thereshall be no obligation on the employer to give the employee any notice of such retirement. Provided, however, thatan employee who has retired may, at the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement based on theneed of the business.

21. Suspension.–

(i) An Employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer -

(a)Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where suchcharge or charges may result in termination of the services of the Employee.

(b)In order to avoid a breach of the peace or intimidation of witnesses or damage to property/evidence ordisturbance of the business of the Employer.

(c)As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding Fourteen (14) working days after dueinquiry.

(ii) At the time of suspension under sub-clause i) a) and /or i) b) above or within twenty four (24) hours thereof,theEmployer shall provide the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for suchsuspension and thereafter hold an inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 22 hereof.

22. Disciplinary Action.–

Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee, then -

(i) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 21 hereof or not, the Employee shallbe furnished with a show-cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges ofmisconduct alleged against such employee and such show-cause notice shall give the Employee not lessthan three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation to the charge or chargespreferred.

(ii) Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show-cause notice, the Employee shall furnish inwriting to the Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided,however, that if in the circumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension oftime within which to furnish the written answer or explanation to the show-cause notice and where suchrequest is made in writing by an Employee to the Employer, the Employer shall grant such request for suchfurther period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.

(iii) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if heis under suspension forthwith, be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the periodof such suspension.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.201817A

(iv) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show-causenotice, and such answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquirywithin Fourteen (14) working days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to theshow-cause notice. If the employer is unable to commence the inquiry within the time period stipulated abovethe employee shall be informed the reasons for such delay in writing. A member of the Union can be presentas an observer at the disciplinary inquiry.

(v) After holding such inquiry, the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges inthe show-cause notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.

(vi) If an order is made to dismiss the employee - the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of theEmployee’s suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.

(vii) An Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to above where the Employer proposes towarn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges.

23. Variation of Terms ad Conditions.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement, neither party shall seek orattempt to vary, alter nor change any of the terms and conditions contained herein and/or any other terms and conditionspresently applicable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement, other than by way of mutual agreement betweenparties.

24. Dispute Settlement Procedure and Trade Union Action.–

(i)The Employer, the Union and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement undertake that theyshall not during the continuance of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to any of the terms andconditions agreed upon herein, other than by mutual agreement, and the Union shall not resort to any formof Trade Union action in relation to any dispute connected with or arising out of any matter covered by thisAgreement.

(ii)In the event of a dispute arising out of a matter not covered by this Agreement, parties agree to resolve anysuch dispute in the following manner:-

(a)Firstly, the Branch and the Management would attempt to settle such issue/dispute at the Companylevel. A written statement of the dispute shall be forwarded by the Union/Branch Committee to theEmployer, and at least two weeks given for the Employer to resolve the dispute.

(b)In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (a) above, parties agree to meet at The Employers’Federation of Ceylon (EFC) in order to resolve such dispute within 10 working days after such matteris referred to the EFC by the Parent Union.

(c)In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (b) above, parties agree to resolve the relevantdispute in acordance with the conciliation proceedings, in terms of the provisions of the IndustrialDisputes Act.

(d)In the event of non-resolution of the dispute at Stage (c) above, the Union agrees that they would give07 working days prior notice, in writing, before engaging in any form of Trade Union action.

25. Check off.– The employer shall remit union subscriptions of the members by way of a ‘‘Check - Off’ facility to theunion, on the written request of an employee bound by this agreement to deduct from the wages due to such employee, thecurrent monthly union dues as are specified by the employee until such times as the employee maintains his request.

In the event of the Union being representative of less than 40% of the above categories of the employees noremittance in respect of check off would be made thereafter in respect of such categories.

18AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'15PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.08.2018

26. Subject to the terms and conditions set out in this agreement the current terms and conditions which are applicableto the employees covered and bound by this Agreement will remain unchanged during the period of this Agreement.

In witness hereof parties have set their hands on this 06th day of April Two Thousand and Eighteen at Colombo.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

08 - 1076