==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.12.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2051$15 - 2017 foieïn¾ ui 27 jeks nodod - 2017'12'27No. 2051/15 - WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

NATIONAL POLICY AND STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK ON INJURY PREVENTION ANDMANAGEMENT IN SRI LANKA

National Policy and Strategic Framework on Injury Prevention and Management in Sri Lanka has been approved by theCabinet of Ministers at its meeting held on 06.06.2017 and is effective from same date. The policy is a long felt need ofthe country and will provide policy guidance and directions to the national and provincial authorities and other relevantstakeholders for effective implementation of the National Injury Prevention Programme.

JANAKA SUGATHADASA,Secretary,Ministry of Health, Nutrition & IndigenousMedicine.20th December 2017.

National Policy and Strategic Framework on Injury Prevention and Management in Sri Lanka

Ministry of Health Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 2016

Non Communicable Diseases (NCD) Unit, Ministry of Health & Indigenous Medicine.

Introduction

Injuries are the leading cause of hospitalization and the 11th leading cause of hospital deaths in Sri Lanka. Majority of theinjury victims are in the productive age group (15 to 44 years) and cause devastating consequences to the injured personas well as the lives of family members and community.

As this growing burden of injuries challenge economic and social development, the Government of Sri Lanka hasrecognized prevention and management of injuries as a priority area of work.

Thus the Ministry of Health has taken the initiative to develop the National Policy and strategic framework oninjury prevention and magament with input from government officials, experts and stakeholders engaged in injury prevention.

1A PG 3844 — 507 (12/2017)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.12.20172A

Scope of the current policy document :

The National policy will cover the unintentional injuries among all age groups through following levels of prevention.

1. Primary prevention - Which involves interventions aimed at reduction in the exposure to risk and prevention ofinjuries from occurring, through adoption of safer behaviours and safer environments.

2. Secondary prevention - Which involves interventions that can provide early detection and appropriate managementof an injury event to prevent more serious consequences. (pre-hospital care, emergency trauma care).

3. Tertiary prevention - Which involves interventions to reduce the likelihood of disability and management ofdisabilities due to injury (rehabilitation).

Intentional injury is addressed through the Mental Health Policy. Secondary prevention and selected aspects oftertiary prevention are seen as common to all types of injury and this policy addresses the service structures that arerequired. The Disaster preparedness policy is coherent with this policy in service delivery aspects.

Vision

Injury free Sri Lanka

Mission

The mission is to reduce the frequency and severity of injuries by incorporating injury prevention strategies into everydaylife of people.

Policy goal

To minimize injury events and reduce injury morbidity, disability and mortality in Sri Lanka.

Key Strategies

The following strategies areas are identified and prioritized to achieve the policy objective

1) Strengthen coordinated action for injury prevention.2) Raise awareness on gravity of the injury problem and prevention of injuries3) Maintain and recommed legislative and regulatory mechanisms supporting injury prevention.4) Empower community and stake holders to design and develop safe environments.5) Strengthen the organization capacity to provide optimum post event care and rehabilitation of the injury victim.6) Strengthen the injury information system and promote research.

Strategic Objectives

Strategic objecties are identified under each strategic area

Strategy 01 : Strengthen coordinated action for injury prevention

Objetives :

1) Strengthen the National Committee for Prevention of Injuries (NCPI) to enhance coordination mechanism andto ensure integration of injury prevention efforts. (shall be represented by : Health, Transport, Highways andRoad Development, Department of Motor Traffic, National Transport Commission, Police, Labour, National

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.12.20173A

Institute of Occupational safety and Health (NIOSH), Education, Justice, Provincial Councils and LocalGovernments, Social Services, Treasury, Ministry of Mass Media and Information, Insurance Board)

2) Develop and implement plans to coordinate and guide injury prevention at different levels : National, Regionaland Community.

Strategy 02 : Raise awareness on gravity of the injury problem and prevention of injuries

Objectives :

1. Create awareness and acceptance among policy makers, professionals and general public that most injuries canbe prevented.2. Incorporate module on Injury Prevention into the curricula for primary, secondary and relevant undergraduateeducation.3. Develop and include Injury Prevention module in relevant in-service training programmes in the respectivedepartments.4. Encourage individuals and groups to be actively involved in injury prevention.5. Encourage positive attitudes towards safety promotion and injury prevention among all.

Strategy 03 : Maintain and recommend legislative and regulatory mechanisms supporting injury prevention

Objectives :

1) Strengthen implementation and enforcement mechanisms of existing legislation and regulations.2) Support compliance by formulating and updating guidelines, code of practices and standards to the communities.3) Identify deficiencies in existing legislative and regulatory mechanisms4) Recommendation, introduction or modification of the legislation and regulations that facilitate injury prevention.

Strategy 04 : Empower community and stake holders to design and develop safe environments.

Objectives :

1) Promote safe environment through empowerment of individuals, families and communities.2) Ensure safety and freedom from injury as a kee component in all development projects and programms.3) Improve environments and products to reduce the likelihood of injuries occuring as a result of human error.

Strategy 05 : Strengthen the organization capacity to provide optimum post event care and rehabilitation of theinjury victim.

Objectives :

1) Strengthen appropriate pre-hospital care for injury victims.2) Strengthen basic emergency are available at primary level institutions.3) Strengthen emergency care available at secondary and tertiary level institutions.4) Strengthen appropriate rehabilitation and integrated services available at primary, secondry and tertiary levelinstitutions.5) Strengthen appropriate rehabilitation and integrated services available in the community.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.12.20174A

Strategy 06 : Strengthen the injury information system and promote research

Obejctives :

1) Develop and implement National Injury Surveillance system2) Establish mechanism for systematic dissemination of information among the stakeholders and communityperiodically.3) Identity research priority in the area of injury prevention.4) Promote research to fill deficiencies in injury information and convert research into pratice.5) Disseminate Annual Report to all sectors in a timely manner.

Coordinating mechanism

Appropriate coordination mechanisms will be established at the national, provincial and disrict level. The directorate ofNon Communicable Diseases of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine is the focal point for injuryprevention and will serve as the operational and overall coordination body in implemnting the National Injury Policy in thecountry.

Director Non Communicable disease will coordinate with different sectors for proper implementation of Nationalpolicy, in order to ensure that the national strategic plan on injuries is implemented throughout the country. Also theavailability of resorces for effective implementation of the policy should be ensured. The NCD Unit is managed by theDirector under the supervision and guidance of the Deputy Director General (NCD). A sustainable financial mechanismwill also be ensured for implementation of the injury policy efficiently.

Responding to local need and circumstances, PDHSs and RDHSs will develop integrated provincial and disrictplans that are consistent with the national policy after consulting relevant stakeholders.

At the provincial level, implementation of the injury prevention program will be coordinated by the ProvincialConsultant Community Physician (or Medical Officers in their absence) under supervision of PHDS. Implementation ofthe disrict plans will be coordinated by Medical Officer Non Communicable Disease (MONCD) under supervision ofRDHS. MONCD is the District Program Manger (District Focal Point) for the injury Prevention Program.

Implementation

Medium term operational plan (3-5 years) and annual plans shall be formulated from this strategic framework. The strategicplan on injury prevention and management shall guide the preparation of implementation plans at provincial and districtlevel. It is vital to lialise with the Provincial Health Ministries to ensure smooth implementation of the program. Therefore,it is recommended that each province/region formulate a provincial regional committee on prevention of injuries tofacilitate better implementation of the activities within the respective areas.

Collaboration with NGOO and community groups (Youth groups, Gramodaya and welfare organization etc.) willenhance better delivery of the preventive activities at the grass root level.

Monitoring and Evaluation :

Monitoring and evaluation shall take place according to the medium term and annual plan. This Plan will spell out therelevant performance indicators to be used at national, sub-national including institutional levels. A system of regularmonitoring will be established at these levels.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'12'27PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 27.12.20175A

National Committee for Prevention of Injuries (NCPI).

The NCPI functions as the key technical body advising on implementation of the National Policy. It will be charied by theDirector General of Health Services, and constitute representation from relevant government agencies. The NCPI willrecommed and support inter-sectorial actions required for prevention and management of injuries, evaluate the impact ofimplementation of policy measures and advice on modifications of the national policy as necessity arises, monitor theimplementation of the national policy across the sectors and provide yearly reports for the National Health Council andProvincial Councils and flag up important issues that require advice to the National Health Council. Within the NCPI, foreach specific type of injury, sub committee will be formed to coordinate the preventive efforts.

Thr NCPI is accountable to the Secretary of Health for policy implementation.

Technical Working Group (TWG) on Injuries

The TWG will consist of 8-10 members and will function under the Director NCD. The membership can be expaned as perthe working requirements where additional members will co-opted from representation from the relevant stakeholders.

Annexure A

The standard definition of an injury as used by WHO is : “Injuries are caused by acute exposure to physical agents such asmechanical energy, heat, electricity, chemicals, and ionizing rediation interacting with the body in amounts or at rates thatexceed the threshold of human tolerance. In some cases (for example, drowing and frostbite), injuries result from thesudden lack of essential agents such as oxygen or heat” (WHO 2002).

It can be bodily lesion resulting from acute exposure to energy in amounts that exceed that threshold ofphysiological tolerance, or an impairment of function resulting from a lack of one or more vital elements (i. e. air, water,warmth) ; as in drowing, strangulation or freezing. The time between exposure to the energy and the appearance of aninjury is short (WHO, 2002).

The energy causing an injury may be :

1. Mechanical (e. g. an impact with a moving or stationary object, such as a surface, knife or vehicle)2. Rediant (e. g. blinding light or a shock wave from an explosion)3. Thermal (e. g. air or water that is too hot or too cold)4. Electrical5. Chemical (e. g. a posion or an intoxicating or mind-altering substance such as alcohol or a drug)

Injuies are the acute, physical conditions listed in Chapter XIX and Chapter XX in the International StatisticalClassification of Disease and Related Health Problems, Tenth revision (ICD - 10)

The above definition of an injury includes drowing (lack of oxygen), hypothermia (lack of heat), strangulation(lack of oxygen), decompression sickness (excess nitrogen compounds) and poisiongs (by toxic substances). It does Notinclude conditions that result from continual stress, such as carpal tunnel syndrome, chronic back pain and poisioning dueto infections. Mental disorders and chronic disability, although these may be eventual consequences of physical injury,are also excluded by the above definition (WHO 2002).

01-294

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.