==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

¡ºø —ïÊË EXTRAORDINARY

¡â¨ 1904/03 – 2015 ud¾;= 02 Éæ¾ø i÷od – 2015.03.02

No. 1904/03 – MONDAY, MARCH 02, 2015

( Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A – G 21109– 30 (2015/ 03)This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

My No. : CI / 1800.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Mackwoods (Pvt) Ltd, No. 10, Gnanartha Pradeepa Mawatha, Colombo 10 of the one partand The United Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers’ Union, No. 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 8th dayof April, 2014 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon(Revised Edition 1956).

HERATH YAPA,Commissioner of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.27th January, 2015.

Collective Agreement No. 21 of 2014

THE COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made on this 8th day of April Two Thousand and Fourteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Actbetween Mackwoods (Pvt) Ltd, a Company duly registered in Sri Lanka, under the Companies Ordinance and having their registered officeat No. 10, Gnanartha Pradeepa Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as “The Employer”) of the One Part and, The United Tea,Rubber and Local Workers’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered and, having its registered office at No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha,Colombo 5, hereinafter referred to as “the Union” of the Other Part.

WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:

2 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

PART I

Containing terms and conditions of Employment and Matters Incidental Thereto and Connected with

1. Employer covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind Mackwoods (Pvt) Ltd, (The Employer)..

2.Employees Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the members of the Union who are employed onpermenent monthly contracts of employment in a Drivers/ manual/ labouring capacity in the Establishment of the Employer in grades ofEmployment enumerated in the First Schedule hereto and are in employment at the time of signing of this Agreement.

3.Earlier Collective Agreements .– The provisions of this agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of whatever otherearlier Collective Agreements or Memorandum of Settlement signed between parties to this Agreement and any such agreement or memoran-dum of Settlement shall stand terminated from the First day of January Two Thousand and Fourteen.

4.Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of January Two Thousand andFourteen , and thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving three month’s notice in writing to the other, subjectto the condition that neither party shall give such notice to the other party before the Thirtieth Day of September Two Thousand and Sixteenand such notice shall not expire before the Thirty first day of December Two Thousand and Sixteen.

5.General Terms and Conditions of Employment .– During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditionsof this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this agreement and an Employeecovered and bound by the agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date thereof or whichshall come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.

6.Probation.– Every employee recruited by the employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months, providedhowever, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the employer is not satisfied with the progress of such employee, theprobationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the employer shall indicate to the employee inwriting the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation the employer shallhave the right to terminate the services of the employee without notice. If the employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory serviceduring the period of probation or extended probation and has not been confirmed by the employer, he shall be deemed to be confirmed in hisemployer’s Service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation as the case may be ended.

7.Attendance. –

(1)Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day (otherthan a holiday) at the usual starting time of the office, store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for workthroughout the normal working hours.

(2)If at an office, store, factory, mill or job work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own occupation he shallbe deemed to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other worksite of the Employer where work is available.

(3)Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable toappropriate disciplinary action.

8.Hours of Work.– The hours of work in the employers Establishment shall be those customarily worked.

9.Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himselfavailable for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct hiswages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.

10.Overtime.–

(1)If required by his Employer an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the Employer.Refusal to work overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation, which is acceptable to the Employer shall constituteneglect of duty, for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.

(2)Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and half (1 1/2) timesthe normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of 18 (a) hereof.

3 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

11.Weekly Holiday. –

(1)In respect of each week each Employee shall be allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday.Provided however, that if any Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of anyperiod of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’swage in respect of this weekly holiday for that week in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 (b) hereof.

(2)In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in Sub - clause (1) the Employer shall include –

(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the ;

(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in Clause (12)thereof ; and

(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.

(3)The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions :

(i) A day within the six (6) days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee, as a holidaywith remuneration. Provided however, that if any employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeitand his Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in Sub - clause (1),then and in such event, that Employee shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wagecomputed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 (b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowedto that Employee within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further that in respect of not more than two (2)such weekly holidays in any one calendar month, an Employer may with the consent of the Employee.–

(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which thatEmployee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage asaforesaid pay him one days wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 18 hereof in lieu ofsuch alternate holiday, or

(b) In case that an Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday asaforesaid in respect of which alternate holiday, he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitledto deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.

(ii) In respect of work done on such weekly holiday, the Employee shall be paid an remuneration –

(a) One and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one hour for meal); and

(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 hereof for eachsubsequent hour of work.

The provisions of this sub - clause shall not apply to Employees engaged on work outside the business premises of theEmployer for period exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the duration of each such period.

12.Annual Holidays.– Annual Holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board ifany applicable to such Employee or the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade.

13.Public Holidays.– 1. Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board forthe Engineering Trade. Provided, however, that an Employee may be employed on a Public holiday in accordance with the decisions of theWages Board for the Engineering Trade.

2.If any Public Holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub - clause (1) falls on Sunday, a day either inthe six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six(6) days immediately succeeding such Public Holiday shall be granted to theEmployee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 11 hereof.

3.If any Public Holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the numberof hours constituting the normal working day (inclusive of one hour for a meal) on the day immediately preceding such PublicHoliday shall be six and half (6 1/2) hours.

4 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

14.Casual Leave.–

(1) In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment, he shall be entitledto take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill - health, if that Employee’s entitlement to sickleave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as “Casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregateof periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay suchremuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days’ casual leave shall be taken at any one time, save and exceptupon the ground of ill- health. Provided further, that an employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediatelypreceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any Employee’s firstyear of employment, including any period of probation, he shall be entitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basisof one day for each complete period of two month’s service.

(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for theapplication. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to theEmployee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case, the Employee may be required to state the reasonfor the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant casual leave.

15.Sick Leave.– In any year, an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that –

(a)His illness is supported by a certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner (unless waived by his Employer) and

(b)The Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 6 hereof. Provided however, that an Employee who hasbeen on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be entitledto sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick leave not exceeding five(5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.

16.Salaries.– The salaries of all employees who were in employment as at 01st January 2014 and continue to be employment as at thedate of signing of this Agreement shall be revised as follows:

(1)A sum equivalent to 12% of the salary of an Employee as at December 2013 shall be added to the salary with effect from 1stJanuary 2014.

(2)Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 1,000/= will be consolidated into the salary of the employee with effect from 1st January 2014.

(3)A sum equivalent to 8% of the salary of an employee as at December 2014 shall be added to the salary with effect from 1stJanuary 2015.

(4)Thereafter a sum of Rs. 1000 will be consolidated into the salary of the employee with effect from 1st January 2015.

(5)A sum equivalent to 6% of the salry of an employee as at December 2015 shall be added to the salary with effect from 1stJanuary 2016.

(6)Thereafter, a sum of Rs. 1,000 will be consolidated into the salary of the employee with effect from 1st January 2016.

Every Employee in employment as at the date of signing of this agreement will be entitled to receive by way of notional arrearsfor the period 1st January 2014 to 31st March 2014, a sum equivalent to the amount mentioned in (1) above X 2 and the summentioned in (2) above X2, Notional arrears so calculated will not attract any consequential benefits such as EPF, ETF, Overtime, etc.

(7)If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government of Sri Lanka –

(a)Prescribes increases in wages by any written law and applicable to categories covered by this Agreement, legallyobliging the Employers to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by suchwritten law and in terms of such written law.

(b)Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective ofwhether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.

17. Wages for Periods less than One Month .– For the purpose of this Agreement, the wages of any Employee for periods less thanone month shall be computed in the manner following :

5 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(a)for one hour-the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240);(b)for one day-the monthly wage divided by Thirty (30);(c)for one - half day(either morning or afternoon) -a day’s wage ascertained as above, divided by two (02);(d)for one week-a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (07);

18. Lump sum Payment.–

(1)A lump sum payment of Rs. 20,000 for each year commencing on the 1st January 2014 payable in January the followingyear in respect of the preceding twelve (12) months (1st January to 31st December hereinafter referred to as the qualifyingperiod) will be paid to each employee covered and bound by this agreement in lieu of non-recurring cost of living gratuity.(NRCLG).

(2)The lump sum payment shall be payable by an Employer to an Employee who is eligible to receive the same by virtue of hisservice under the Employer during a part of the qualifying year by reason of the fact that he is not in the Employer’s servicewhen the lump sum payment becomes due in January of any year or he joined the Employer’s service during the course ofthe qualifying year.

(3)The lump sum payment shall not be payable to an Employee in respect of any period for which he received no wages forwhatever reason.

(4)No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on the lump sum payment.

19. Work Norms.–Consequent to the salary increase granted to the employees under this Agreement, it is agreed by and between theEmployer, Union and the employees that the employees in carrying out their normal daily work shall achieve and maintain the worknorms set out in the Second Schedule hereto in respect of the various areas of work identified therein.

20. Provident Fund.–

(1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident FundAct No. 15 of 1958.

(2)Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act No. 46 of 1980, Where the Employer and Employee as at thedate hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employees’Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.

21. Terminal Benefits.–

(1)The Employer will subject as hereinafter provided, pay terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the Scheme ofterminal benefits set out in this Clause.

(2)The scheme shall apply to every Employee in the service of the Employer as at First November 1988 and to those whojoined the service of the Employer on any day thereafter, so long as this Agreement continues in force.

(3)As and by way of terminal benefits the Employer shall pay an Employee a sum equivalent to one month’s wages for eachyear of service less the Employer’s contribution to the Provident Fund and Trust Funds but excluding interest thereon.

(4)The wage on which the said terminal benefits under sub-clause (3) hereof shall be payable will be the last monthly wagereceivable by an Employee on which Provident Fund is payable and shall not include any Non-recurring Cost of LivingGratuity.

(5)For the purpose of calculating Terminal Benefits under this Clause, a year of service shall be a period of not less than sixmonths.

(6)The Terminal Benefits provided for in this clause shall be payable to an Employee on the cessation of his services arising fromdeath or any other cause whatsover. Provided however, that if at the date of cessation of an Employee’s services there is dueto his Employer from the Employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation or any other account and the same cannotbe recovered from the amount in the Employee’s credit in the Provident Fund. The same shall be recovered from the terminalbenefits provided for herein.

(7)The provisions of this Clause shall not apply to Employers operates a more favourable scheme of terminal benefits.

6 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(8)On the death of an Employee whilst in service and is eligible to receive Terminal Benefits under this clause, the Employershall pay such Terminal Benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth.–

(a)If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased Employee’s Provident fund at the date of his deathto the nominee or nominees of such Employee in conformity with the form of nomination where such nominee issurviving and of full age.

(b)Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or anyone or more of the nominees havingpre-deceased the Employee, or in the event of the nominee being a minor at the time that the payment of the TerminalBenefits become due, the Employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the payment haveestablished their claim in law and furnished proof thereof.

(9)In the event of any written law providing for the payment of Gratuity or Terminal benefits the more favourable scheme shallapply but not both.

(10)No employee shall be entitled to any Gratuity or Terminal Benefits in addition to the terminal benefits provided for in thisclause or by any written law as the case may be.

22. Bonus.–

(1)Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payments in the pastand as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to eachof his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediatelypreceding the signing of this Agreement. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount lessthan the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of thisAgreement the employees may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer. Concerned If the Union is not satisfiedby the Employer in the matter. the Union may pursue this matter with the employers Federation of Ceylon ( herein after called“the Federation” If the disputes as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred toa committee of three persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance withthe provisions of sub-clause (2) for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.

(2)At the written request of the parties to the dispute, as to the reduction of the bonus, the Commissioner of Labour willconstitute a Bonus Committee, which shall consist of three senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10) year’s postqualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of CharteredAccountants to the Commissioner of Labour to the Employer, the employees and the Federation. Thereupon the Commis-sioner of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee so constituted, a statement ofprinciples and procedure by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute as to thereduction of Bonus.

(3)Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedure from the Commissioner of Labour, theBonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of the bonus bythe Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus shall be reduced. The BonusCommittee shall communicate the decision in writing to the Federation , the Employees and Commissioner of Labour. If thedecision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decisions shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and theemployees or any one or more of them and/ or its or their members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of TradeUnion action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If however, the Bonus Committee is divided byits decision, then the decision of the Commissioner of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on the parties to thedispute and the Commissioner’s decision shall be communicated in writing by the Commisioner of Labour to the Federation,and the Employees and / or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwiseduring the continuance in force of this Agreement.

(4)The Bonus committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year an Employer should pay his Employeesa bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus in the year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement.

(5)The fees payable to the members of each Bonus committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to thereduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner of Labour.

7 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(6)The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding thesigning of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of each Employer and shall not be called in question by the employeesnor shall any Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.

(7)The provisions of Sub - clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the existing bonus scheme.

(8)At the request of the Commisioner of Labour, the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka willnominate three Chartered Accountants withnot less than 10 years of post - qualification experience drawn from a professionalAccountancy Firm to serve on the Bonus Committee.

23.Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each Grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedulehereto shall be automatic unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality ordisciplinary action on account of serious misconduct, an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred, in which case where an increment is –

(a)Deferred the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year,

(b)Stopped , the loss of increment will only be for the period of stoppage during the year,

(c)Suspended - the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependentupon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision, an increment is neither stoppednor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof, shallaccrue to the employee concerned.

Deferrmend, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the employee has been notifiedin writing of a complain against such employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry or inefficiency, fraud ormisconduct which in the circumstances does not merit termination of employment.

(d)The scales of the consolidated wages set out in Schedule I hereto include all statutory allowances as at the date of thisagreement.

(e)This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.

24.Warning.– If in the opinion of the Employer, an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the Employee by aletter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to theEmployee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.

25.Suspension.–

(1) An Employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer –

(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal,

(b) In order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of the Employer,

(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.

(2)At the time of the suspension under Sub - clause (1) (a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the employer shall providethe Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reason or charges in terms of clause 26 hereof.

26. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee, then : –

(1)Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the Employee shall be furnished witha show - cause, notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such Employeeand such show - cause notice which shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give theanswer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.

(2)Within three (3) clear working days, after the date of the show - cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to theEmployer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however, that, if in thecircumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish thewritten answer or explanation to the show - cause notice and where such request is made by an Employee to the Employer,the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.

8 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(3)If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is undersuspension forthwith, be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.

(4)If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and suchanswer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working daysfrom the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show - cause notice.

(5)After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show causenotice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except forreasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from theconclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of suchcharges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.

(6)If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that .—

(a)The Employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall, subject to theprovisions of Sub - clause 25(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspensionirrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as tothe charges in the show cause notice ;

(b)The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’ssuspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension ;

(c)In veiw of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employeris unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authoritiesfor further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if inview of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee, the matter had been previouslyreferred to the Police or any other authorities for investigation or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations orinquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the Employee may remain suspended without pay.

(7)If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein, the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs(a) to (c) of the preceding sub - clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)working days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration fora period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension inexcess of thirty (30) days up to the date of which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceedingsub - clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.

(8)In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to(c) of sub - clause (6) within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from doingso by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between theFederation and any of the employees that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for suchfurther time as may be agreed.

(9)The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub - clauses (4) and (5) hereof where the Employerproposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if theemployee disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of aninquiry, the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then applysubject to the exception of the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after receipt of theEmployee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

27. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by hisemployer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided, however, that an

9 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

Employee who has retired may, at the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as maybe mutually agreed.

28. Termination of Service.–

(1)Every contract whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer, except for work usually performed bythe day or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise expresslystipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewablefrom month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s notice be given by eitherparty to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.

(2)Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period, such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereofat the commencement of his employment, and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period oron the failure of the Employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.

29. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members who are employed in anywork - place of the Employer, in regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms andconditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall apply :-

(1)When the Union is representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of the Employees whose membership subscriptionis not in arrears, the Employer will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and negotiate with it onthat basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of such Employeesthe Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all the Unionscompetent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such Union.

(2)When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work - place and the claim or matter isrestricted to one type of business or one work - place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees inthe service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined byreference to the duly qualified members of such Union in Proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of theEmployer in Sri Lanka.

(3)If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer, the Union is competent to makegeneral claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a Referendum, which shall be held by the Departmentof Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the Employer and that Union and the parties thereto.

30. Disputes Procedure.–

(1)In the first instance, the employee shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer and give the Employerat least ten (10) working day’s time within which to reply. If, in the employees opinion, the Employer’s reply is unsatisfac-tory, the employees and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.

(2)When the employees conclude that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive, it shall ask the Department of Labourto intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conferences and /or discussions with aview to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until theDepartment of Labour reports failure.

(3)Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof, all disputes between the employees and the Employer shall be settled inaccordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.

10 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(4)Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of thisAgreement.

31. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly arising from theimplementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between representatives of the Federation and the Employees if the mattercannot be settled by negotiation, the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulationsthereunder.

32. Trade Union Action.– The Union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severallyagree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Unionaction against the Employer, in respect of any dispute between the Employer on the one hand and the Union and / or its members and / or anyemployees covered and bound by this Agreement on the other hand, whether or not such dispute is related to this Agreement, except wheresuch dispute has been caused by an act of an Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body, (by whatsoever name called), of the Unionis mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of that Union and/ or its members oris grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and /or its members. Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days noticein writing shall be given to the Union by the Employer Concerned, the Federation and the Commissioner of Labour before the date ofcommencement of any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent on an act of an Employer which in the opinion of thecontrolling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine its member or isgrossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of that Union and/ or its members.

33. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment Benefits.–

(1)The Union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with theEmployer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary alter or add to all or any of theterms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement asamended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees coveredand bound by this Agreement, other than by mutual agreement.

(2)The Federation and the Employers bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Union, and its members andthe Employees covered and bound by this Agreement that they shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of thebenefits presently enjoyed by the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual Agreement.

(3)Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provisions of sub-clauses (1) or (2) may be resolved byvoluntary arbitration but only if the parties, agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary arbitration.

PART II

1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer the Union commits a breach of any of the terms of thisCollective Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by theEmployer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore suchfacilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.

2. Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show - cause notice in terms of Clause 26 the following provisionsshall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show - cause notice —

(a)The Employer will subject as hereinafter provided, allow a another employee (hereinafter referred to as ‘Observer’) to bepresent as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.

(b)If the Employee who is served with a show - cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuantto such show - cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of theinquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(c)An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall notbe entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

(d)The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any mannerwhatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.

(e)The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, northe proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.

3.Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union-

(a) In respect of each meeting, which the Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, an application for permission shall bepreviously made to the Employer.

(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the under notedconditions :-

(i) That no person other than an Employee in the service of the Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;

(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, the Office Bearers of the Parent Union may, with theprevious approval of the Employer, attend:

(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.

(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of suchUnion is granted are duly complied with.

(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of (or in connectionwith) the meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s premises and the Unionshall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.

4. Duty Leave.–

1.The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :-

Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permissions if, in his discretion, the exigencies of thecircumstances warrant refusal. The Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the Union :-

(a)To be present at Conferences, held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or theDepartment of Labour, in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer,

or

(b)To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of wages for such absence.

2. The Employer will in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration, to an employee to attend a Trade Union Courts or Seminaror Conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad, unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays which hewishes to utilize for the purpose.

5.Check Off.–

(1) In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer bound by this Collective Agreement in whose establishment the membersof the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the category of Employees covered and bound by this CollectiveAgreement.

12 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(2) The Employer shall, on the written request of an employee, deduct from the wage due to such employee the current monthlyunion, dues as are specified by the Employee, to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount asdeducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.

(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to the effect in the form setout in Form No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as an “Authorization” as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.

(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in theform set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation” as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.

(5) As far as practicable, deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date ofreceipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.

(6) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorizations shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling suchauthorization. Provided however -

(a) that an Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure tocomply with Sub - clauses (5) or (6) ;

(b) that, at his discretion, an Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check off in any month in whichthe deductions by way of check off will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages in that monthexceed the deductions permitted by law.

(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth / day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the employeesin the month immediately preceding to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each Authorization by acheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and cross “Account Payee”.

(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope, addressed to theTreasurer of the Union and its address for the time being.

(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.

(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than the Uniondues actually deducted.

PART III

DEFINITIONS

In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them

WordsMeaning

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.

Employer (for convenience sometimes referred to as “he” orThe Employer covered and bound by this Agreement.its grammatical variations)

Employee (for convenience sometimes referred to as “he” orSubject to the provisions of Clause 5 of part II hereof an Employeeits grammatical variations)bound by this Agreement.

Industrial Disputes Act.The Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950

Normal Incremental DateThe date on which an Employee would normally receive anincrement

WageThe monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wage inthe First Schedule hereto.

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

WeekThe period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnighton the succeeding Saturday night.

YearA continuous period of twelve (12) months

* Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine

* Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

Form No. 1

AUTHORISATION

Name of Employer : ....................................................

As I am an Employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement of effecting employees employed in a capacity, and I desire to availmyself of the facility of check off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the UNITED TEA, RUBBER& LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ................. (Rs.................... ) inrespect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit the same to the said Union on my behalf. The first paymentshould please be made from my wages next due immediately following the date hereof.

........................................................................................(Date of signing)(Signature of Employee)

............................................(Full name of Employee)

Received on ......................(To be filled by the Employer)

Form No. 2

REVOCATION

Name of Employer : .......................................................................

With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour of theUNITED TEA, RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION with effect from the wages next due to me immediately followingthe date hereof.

........................................................................................(Date of signing)(Signature of Employee)

............................................(Full name of Employee)

14 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

In witness whereof parties have set their hands hereunto, on this 8th day of April Two Thousand and Fourteen, at Colombo.

15 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

FIRST SCHEDULE

The annual increments applicable to different categories of employees covered and bound by this agreement will be as follows.

Annual increment for Coir Mattress, Bristol Fibre and Agro Chemicals Employees

Grade IIIntermediate GradeGrade IHead Baling Press Operator

Rs. 100/ –Rs. 120/ –Rs. 150/ –Rs. 180/ –

Annual increment for Motor Transport Employees

Class BClass CClass DClass GClass H

Rs. 170/ –Rs. 150/ –Rs. 200/ –Rs. 100/ –Rs. 100/ –

Annual increment for Engineering Trade Employees

UnskilledSemi-skilledSkilledRs. 100/ –Rs. 120/ –Rs. 150/ –

SECOND SCHEDULE

Export Department Revised Production Norms For 2014

No.Type of Bale/Size/WeightGangAgreed Norms W.E.F.RemarksStrength 2014BaleBallots01M/Fibre 150 kg (HB)Without Dusting atthe Press Floor1684

02M/Fibre 150 kg (RB)Without Press Floor Dusting1666

03B/Fibre 1Tie / 2TieWith Gunny Cover1670

04B/Fibre 1Tie / 2TieWithout Gunny Cover1672

05Omat Fibre 150 kgWithout Press Floor Dusting1672

06MF (Hoop) 125kgWithout Press Floor Dusting1686

07MF (Rope) 125kgWithout Press Floor Dusting1672

08Ballots - 25 Kg FillingInto Sacks Only.0286Ballots - 12.5Kg Filling only02130

09MF (HB) 150 Kg HT FibreExtra Dusting on Press Floor1664

10AMF 100% HT or Pickerd or75% Ht + 25% Pickerd withoutPress Floor, 1. Dusting withM/F Loose Ballots (150kg)1680

10BMF 100% HT or Pickerd or75% Ht + 25% Pickerd withoutPress Floor, Dusting withM/F Ballots (150kg)1684

11MF (Roped) 125kg extraDusting on Press Floor1666

16 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

No.Type of Bale/Size/WeightGangAgreed Norms W.E.F.RemarksStrength 2014BaleBallots

12Pressing BF (Mo 1tie) 25kgBaleBalots Minimum of 250 Ballots16250x25kg Ballots04 hrs

12AMF (Plastic Strapping) 150kg14Mwithout Press Floor dusting4F *70

* Br. Union want to keep items figure on 18 and if and when necessary item will work with 4 Female Workers and 14 M workers

Export Department Revised Loading Norms For 2014

No.Type/SizeGangHrs.RemarksStrength01MF/BF Bales 20'102 1/2Fork lift +4 workersMF/BF Bales 40'1105Fork lift +3 workers

02BF Ballots 20'1004/BF Ballots 40'100803HTMS/STMF 20'091 1/2HTMS/STMF 40'(Including Weighing)0904

04CHC 40'1008

05DC- 20’ (Without Marking)082 1/2DC- 20’ (Including Marking)0804DC- 40’ (Without Marking)1005DC- 40’ (Including Marking)1008

06F/C with Fibre 20'0904F/C Tuft Only 20'092 1/2F/C Tuft Only (15") 20'0905

07Bleaching Chamber (Loading or Unloading)0605MF/ BF 40' Containers1105Forkilft + 3 workersMF/ 166 x 150kg1105do.MF (Rope) 120 x 150kg1105do.Cut Ends 135 x 150 kg1105do.MF (New York) 135 x 150kg1105do.MF (China) 146 x 150kg1105do.

08HTMF/ STMF 20'0902

09F/C Tuft Only 13" 20'(700Bags and Above)093 1/2

SECOND SCHEDULE

Agro Department – Proposed Production Norms 2014

Type of MethodProductPackGangAgreed NormRemarks(Machinary/Manual)Strength 2014

Liquid Refilling into-50ml061600*5 males +1Female with insertBottles Using Hand Filling100ml061600*5 males +1Female with insertMachine200ml061600*5 males +1Female with insert400ml051300

Liquid Refilling into Bottles200ml061600*5 males +1Female with insertUsing Old DoubleFilling Machine400ml061600*5 males +1Female with insert

Liquid Refilling into Bottles

17 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

My No.: CI/1821.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

The Collective Agreement entered into between Habib Bank Limited, No. 140-142, 2nd Cross Street, Colombo 11 of the one part andCeylon Bank Employees, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 05th day of April 2013 is hereby published in terms ofSection 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).

HERATH YAPA,Commissioner of Labour.Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,27th January, 2015.

Type of MethodProductPackGangAgreed NormRemarks(Machinary/Manual)Strength 2014

Using New Double Filling Machine400ml071700Liquid Refilling IntoPolycans with Filling Machine1 l05450*

Manual1 l05400

With Filling Machine2 l04300*Manual2 l04260Manual3 l04260Manual4 l04200

Powder Refilling To AluALU POLY

Packs/Poly Bags50g05*1100 - 1000

100g05*1100 - 1000200g05*1100 - 1000500g05700 - 700

1Kg05700 - 700Carbofuran2kg05700 - 700Mackzeb2kg - 360Mackzeb5kg05 - 140

Powder Refilling IntoShoot50g05800Petbottles which will come100g05800Into Eration in November 2012200g05800Macksul Refiling Alu Packs500g051100Liquid Reffilling Into Bottles50ml051100100ml051100200ml051100(Manul)400ml05850Surfactant200 l034FormulationOthers200 l036*Increased Norms

03- 460

2A – G 21109

18 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

Collective Agreement No. 13 of 2013

COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

This Collective Agreement, the terms of which were agreed on the 05th day of April Two Thousand and Thirteen, between Habib BankLimited, a Bank incorporated in Pakistan and having its registered Office at Habib Bank Plaza 1.1. Chundrigar Road, Karachi 21 and approvedmain place of business at No, 140 -142, 2nd Cross Street, Colombo 11, in the Republic of Sri Lanka (herinafter referred to as “the Bank”) andthe Ceylon Bank Employee’s Union, a duly registered trade union in Sri Lanka having its registered office at No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo10, Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”)

Title : This Agreement will be known and referred to as the “Habib Bank Officers’ Collective Agreement of 2012”

WHEREAS the Union made demands for a revision of terms and conditions of employment of the Officer Grades in the Bank and afternegotiations the parties in the sprit of goodwill to ensure co-operation between themselves and to guarantee an effective and productive workenvironment have agreed as follows :

1. Parties Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Bank, the Union and all members of the Union employedin the following officer grades in the Bank and hereinafter referred to as ‘the Employees’.

*Junior Officer*Officer Grade IV*Officer Grade III*Officer Grade II*Officer Grade I

2. Duration.– Unless otherwise stated elsewhere, this Agreement shall come into force on the 1st day of April 2012 and shall continueuntill either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31st day ofMarch, 2015. The Union shall, however have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Colliective Agreement at any time on or after1st January, 2015.

3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding on the parties heretoand such earlier Agreements including the Agreement of 2009 shall stand repudiated in respect of the parties hereto.

4.General Terms and Conditions of Employment .– The terms and conditions of this agreement shall subject as herein providedbe deemed to be included in each contract of service whether oral or written between the Bank and each Officer covered and bound by thisagreement which are subsisting as at the date hereof or which come into being during the continuance in force of this Agreement and which arenot inconsistent with the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.

5. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salary Scales.– Every employee covered by this Agreement in service as at the date of thisAgreement shall, from the 1st April 2012, be placed on the salary scale set out in the first Schedule.

Every employee in appointement or service as at 31st March, 2012 shall receive arrears of the increase allowed by this agreement.

For the placement of an employee on the salary scale applicable in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall apply:–

(i)A sum equivalent to 25% of the gross salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) payable to an employee as at 31st March2012 shall be added to the salary of an employee as at such time.

(ii)Every Employee in Employment as at the date of this Agreement shall also receive a further 5% increase calculated on thegross salary as at 31st March 2012 with effect from the 1st April 2013 and thereafter placed on the appropriate point on thescale in the First Schedule at the corresponding Rupee point or if there is no such corresponding point, on the next higherpoint of the said scale.

(iii)There will be no revision of employee salaries in the third year, commencing 1st April 2014.

6.Cost of Living Allowance.– Parties are agreed that the following shall be the payment in lieu of the monthly cost of livingallowance for the duration of the Collective Agreement.

(a) Rs. 17,000 with effect from 1.4.2012;

19 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(b) Rs. 18,500 with effect from 1. 4. 2013;

(c) Rs. 20,000 with effect from 1. 4. 2014;

Provided, however, in the event of the Department of Census ad Statistics publishing a linking factor pertaining to the rate ofpayment in relation to the Colombo Consumer’s Price Index (Base Year 2002) and the CCPI (Base Year 2006/2007) and if your union makesa request for a meeting to discuss the modalities of making this payment, the Bank would be agreeable to do so”.

7.Gas & Electricity Allowance.– The Bank shall pay a Gas and Electricity Allowance to employees as follows :

*Junior Officer -Rs. 7,500 - per mensem*Officer Grade IV -Rs. 8,000 - per mensem*Officer Grade III -Rs. 8,500 - per mensem*Officer Grade II -Rs. 9,000 - per mensem*Officer Grade I -Rs. 9,500 - per mensem

8.Key Holding Allowance.– The Key holding allowance shall be paid as follows :

1 day -Rs. 5002 days -Rs. 7503 days -Rs. 1,0004 days -Rs. 1,2505 days or more -Rs. 2,500

9.Fuel Allowance.– The Fuel allowance shall be paid as follows :

*Junior Officer -50 litres petrol per mensem*Officer Grade IV -55 litres petrol per mensem*Officer Grade III -60 litres petrol per mensem*Officer Grade II -65 litres petrol per mensem*Officer Grade I -70 litres petrol per mensem

10.Entertainment Allowance.– Grade I and II officers will be paid an entertainment allowance of Rs. 4,000/ - per month.

11.Special payments.– (a) with effect from the date hereof when employees are required to work after normal working hours onany working day, they shall be entitled to the following payments:For work upto 2 hours -Rs. 350For work upto 3 hours -Rs. 400For work upto 4 hours -Rs. 450For work in excess of 4 hours -Rs. 175 per hour

(b)When employees are required to work on any holiday they shall be entitled to a payment of Rs. 700 in respect of the firstfour hours worked on such holiday and Rs. 175 in respect of each additional hour worked.

(c)No employee shall work after normal working hours or on holidays unless requested to do so by the Bank.

12. Promotion.– (a) For promotion to Grade I, II, III & IV mere length of service shall not be the sole criteria and the Bank shallbe entitled to take into account other factors such as good conduct, efficiency, educational and professional qualifications andgood character. All promotions from one grade to another shall be subject to the availability of vacancies and suitability of theOfficer and purely at the discretion and judgment of the Management. The decision of the Management in the exercise of suchdiscretion shall be final and conclusive.

(b)For promotion to the Grade IV : It is hereby agreed between the parties that Junior Officers will be considered for promotion toOfficer Grade IV subject to the rules and regulations of the Bank and subject to the following criteria and terms and conditions:

(i)RECORD OF CONDUCT, WORK PERFORMANCE AND ATTENDANCE.– Only Junior Officers possessing a record of good conduct,excellent work performance and attendance will qualify for consideration.

20 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(ii)ELIGIBILITY FOR CONSIDERATION : Only Junior Officers possessing the following basic criteria will be eligible for consideration:

Experience in ServiceEducational Qualifications

08 Years as Junior OfficerGCE O/L Examination with aor Clerk if PromoteeCredit Pass in English

05 Years as Junior OfficerPart I-AIB London or AIBor Clerk if PromoteeSri Lanka

04 Years as Junior OfficerDiploma in AIB London oror Clerk if PromoteeDiploma in AIB Sri Lanka

03 Years as Junior OfficerUniversity Degree with one ofor Clerk if Promoteethe subjects in Economics orCommerce(c)SELECTION PROCESS .– Junior Officers who are eligible subject to the above mentioned basic criteria will be considered forpromotion by the management the Bank, subject to the following conditions :–

(i)Subject to the availability of vacancies depending on the Bank’s staffing needs from time to time, the eligible Junior Officersshall be required to put up, applications for consideration for promotion submitting required information regarding theircareer on set formats obtainable from the Bank.

(ii)All eligible applicants will be required to sit for a written test which will be prepared by the Bank and conducted in Colombounder the supervision of the Management.

(iii) All eligible applicants who have performed satisfactorily at the written test will be further subject to an interview by theManagement of the Bank.

(iv) The Management’s decision in respect of selection shall be final and conclusive and shall not be challenged.

(d)It is further agreed between the parties that calling for application/ test/ interview process as referred to at (a), (b) and (c) above inrespect of the consideration of Officers for each year’s vacancies would commence in the month of September/ October with aview to completing written tests and interviews, and submission of recommendations of successful applicants to Head Office shallbe not later than 15th January of the following year for Head Office final approval.

(e)On final selection after test, interview, recommendation and approval by Head Office, the selected candidates shall be promoted toOfficer Grade IV in the scale herein above mentioned.

13. Provident Fund.– (a) RATE OF CONTRIBUTION.–The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank as from01. 04. 2006 shall be :

Bank’s contribution-12% (twelve per cent) of salaryEmployee’s contribution-8% (eight per cent) of salary

Provident Fund contributions shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof and the amount paid for thatmonth as cost of living allowance subject to the Rules of he Provident Fund.

(b)INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTIONS HELD BY BANKS. – Where as Provident Fund monies areinvested in the respective Banks, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid of 12 months’ fixed deposits for sumof Rs. 100,000 by published the N.S.B prevailing as at the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailingon 1st July for the second half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at such respective Banks.

14. Gratuity.– An Employee shall upon retirement on reaching the age of 55 years or on duly authorised medical grounds, aftercompleting a period of fifteen (15) years service in the Bank or after completing 20 years continuous service, be entitled to gratuity calculatedat the rate of one month’s terminal salary for each completed year of service rendered by such employee. For the purpose of calculating gratuity“terminal salary” shall mean the basic salary i.e. the salary point an employee is placed on the salary scale applicable to him plus the cost of livingallowance.

21 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

15. Death Gratuity.– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, the Bankwill make a compassionate payment of two months, gross salary for each year of completed service subject to a minimum of six months’ grosssalary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of informationsupplied to them. In the case of the death of an employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payableto a confirmed employee provided that in the case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade,the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salaryplus the Cost of Living Allowance.

Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall be entitled to andreceive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under any laws in force at the time on account ofEmployees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an employeewhose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents insubsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.

16. Retirement.–

(a)The age of retirement shall be 55 years, and on reaching the age of 55 an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to beemployed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.

(b)An employee may also be retired and be eligible for retirement benefits if he is not less than 50 years and has10 or moreyears of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his union and the employer that he should be givensuch concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall notconstitute an industrial dispute.

17. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers.–

(a)One Office Bearer of the union shall be released for union work without payment of salary or any other allowanceswhatsoever for a period not exceeding two years on a single occasion during a period of six years provided the union sorequests and subject to the condition that at any given time only one employee of the Bank whether covered or not by thisAgreement shall be so released.

(b)On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for union work, he shall receive incremental credit forthe period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights under Clauses 14, 15 and 16 hereof.

18. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Council Members.–

(a)The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any one givenoccasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present at inquiries before theLabour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts and with their respective Bank Managements -exclusively on matters pertaining to such particular Bank to which such Branch Union Office Bearers are attached.

(b)It is agreed that Central Committee Members will be permitted to leave at 12.30 p.m. on 12 days in a year for meetings. Inthe case of outstation General Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the whole day for 12 General CouncilMeetings in a year.

(c)It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to Central Committee to attend Parent UnionGeneral Council meetings.

(d)It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of theUnion. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.

19. Annual, Medical and Casual Leave. –

(a) ANNUAL LEAVE .-

(i)ENTITLEMENT - In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during which anemployee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year 21 working days paid leave.He shall avail himself of at least 7 days out of the 21 days on successive days and shall in respect of each year avail himselfof not less than 14 days out of the said 21 working days.3A – G 21109

22 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(ii)At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows:(a)The full annual holiday of 21 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but before 1st April;(b)A holiday of 15 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July;(c)A holiday of 11 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October; and(d)A holiday of 6 days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.

(iii)AVAILMENT.– The availment of all annual leave shall be by prior authorisation of the Bank upon the employee’s application,giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.

(iv)ACCUMULATION.– Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee exclusively for the following purposes :

(a)for availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement, with the Bank,(b)for the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill,(c)for travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given,(d)for marriage of the employee,(e)prolonged illness of the employee,(f)on account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’s leave.(g)for the purpose of nursing the 3rd and 4th children beyond the maternity leave entitlement.

Provided that in the case of (b) to (d) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the management. Family memberfor purposes of (b) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.

Provided also that such accumulation will be restricted upto a maximum of seven (7) days per year and provided further thatsuch total accumulation shall be restricted to a maximum of one hundred and twenty (120) days.

(b) MEDICAL LEAVE :

(i)ENTITLEMENT– An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other holidaysin any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.

(ii)AVAILMENT– A Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported bya Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner :

(a)Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or

(b)Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical Practitioner,is in excess of twelve (12) days.

(iii)ACCUMULATION .– An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled to availhimself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to the following provisions :

(a)In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety (90) days,and

(b)The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization or similarcircumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,

(c)Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as an infectiousdisease or prolonged hospitalization an employer may permit him to set off any further absence on grounds of ill healthagainst such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.

(iv)The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and/or take any action asappropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a Certificate from a Registered MedicalPractitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :

(a)Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for absence of anemployee, or

(b)Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly or otherholiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for absence of theemployee.

23 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(c)CASUAL LEAVE.–An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment whereof not more thantwo (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede or follow any period of annual leave. Allcasual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for such absence in justified to the satisfaction of theBank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseen by such employee.

20.Medical Benifits.–(i) REIMBURSEMENT OF MEDICAL EXPENSES FOR NON-HOSPITALISATION.– The Bank willreimburse an employee up to a maximum of such employee’s salary per mensem in respect of medical expenses incurred as routine non-hospitalisation and non-surgical expenditure, Accordingly employees shall be eligible to receive such reimbursement in twelve equalinstallments which shall not constitute part of the wage and accordingly shall not attract consequential benefits such as EPF/ETF, Gratuity etc.

“Salary” for this purpose shall be the salary point on which an employee is placed in terms of Schedule I hereof.

(ii)SPECIAL NON-HOSPITALISATION AND NON-SURGICAL EXPENDITURE.- The Bank will reimburse anemployee on a non-cumulative basis a further sum up to a maximum of Rs. 10,000/- per annum on account of special non-hospitalisation and non-surgical expenses covering the following items only incurred on behalf of the employee only and not onbehalf of his family members :

(a)Spectacles(b)Dentures(c)Hearing Aides

Subject to valid documentation and subject to the provisos that no claim is made in relation to any particular item more thatonce in three years.

(iii)SURGICAL AND HOSPITALISATION EXPENDITURE.– Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical andhospitalisation (whether Government or Private) expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse or unmarriedlegitimate children under 18 years of age, subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expendi-ture, up to the following limits per annum :

(a)Hospitalisation or Nursing Home maintenance charges :-Daily LimitRs. 4,000-Government hospital allowanceRs. 2,000

(b)Emergency treatment travel expenses (Maximum) Rs. 2,000(Rs. 50 per Km. or actual cost whichever is less)

(c)Overall limit for any one event Rs. 150,000

(d)Overall limit for any one year Rs. 200,000

Provided however that in the case of a recurrent illness, i.e. of the same kind, the Bank will make payments on this accountonly once in a period of three years.

The Second Schedule hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.

The above limits will be effective w.e.f. 18 th May, 2013.

(iv)MATERNITY GRANT.– An employee who is married will be permitted a once and for all grant of Rs. 15,000 in respect ofeach of two births of children after 1.12.2012. If both spouses are employed in the Bank only one such claim shall beentertained.

In the case of reimbursement under surgical and hospitalisation expenses, the maximum deduction for normal child birth shallbe Rs. 15,000/-.

(v)The revised rates as set out in clauses (ii) to (iv) hereof shall become effective from the date of the signing of this agreement.

21. Bonus.– The Bank will pay each year to every employee a bonus of three (3) months basic salary on the salary as drawn by suchemployee in the month of December of such year. The bonus will be paid in three monthly installments in keeping with normal practice.

22. Suspension.– (i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the provisionsof sub-clause (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and full pay thereafter, subject tothe condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.

24 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(ii)Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation, the employeewill not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded within six months of thedate of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary (salary plus cost of living allowance) during his suspensionbeyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or dueto the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, halfsuch salary as aforementioned will not be payable.

(iii)In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding the inquirywithin six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the employee makes repeatedrequests for postponements or where he is remanded or in police custody or where the matter is under investigation by thePolice, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.

23. Disciplinary Procedure. – Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the caseof oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply :

(a)Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show cause letter whichshall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter shall give the employee not lessthan ten (10) calender days within which to tender his explanation in writing to the charges preferred.

(b)Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the Bank hisexplanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable the employee may requestthe Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and where such request is made, the Bankshall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circum-stances.

(c)If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause and the Bankis satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee and if the employee is undersuspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate. the employee and shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements inrespect of the period of such suspension.

(d)Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not satisfied withsuch explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (i) hereof, hold an inquiry into the charges against such employee.

(e)The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the date of receiptby them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for reasons beyond the Bank’scontrol, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.

(f)The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused employee oran office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent theperson carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry provided thedefending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any loss of salary forabsence from work on this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at theinquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank inwriting the name of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for thecommencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employeeand cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a Defending Employee orObserver who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defending Employee or Observer shall forthwithcomply with such requirement. The absence of a Defending Employee or Observer from the whole or any part of an inquiryfor any reasons whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto. TheObserver shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question which the Inquiring Officermay ask him.

(g)The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and the accusedemployee signing proceedings as a correct record. If the proceedings have been certified and a copy issued to the accusedemployee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the InquiringOfficer.

(h)The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as well.

(i)Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing, of thefindings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.

25 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(j)Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days except forreasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee shall not be punishedthereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.

(k)Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, any Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the followingcircumstances .–

(i)Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in whichevent the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to show.

(ii)where the employee makes a written admission to the charges against him.

(iii)where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the Employerthereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21) workingdays after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

(l)The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bank,and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which theBank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and/ orpunishment.

(m)Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that –

(i)the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall takes effect fromthe date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that the Bank shall not be entitledto recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period ofsuspension, if any such payment has been made.(ii)the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall bepaid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to imposesuch other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of suspensionpending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.

(n)The observance by the Bank of Sub-clauses (e), (h) and (i) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view ofthe fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for investigationor inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.

(o)The above provisions shall only apply in respect of inquiries that commenced after the date of signing of this Agreement.

24. Trade Union Action.– (a)MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT .– The Union and its memberscovered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the continuance in force of thisAgreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrationsor picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.

(b)MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT .– The Union and its members covered andbound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during the continuance in force of this Agreementthey shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations orpicketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not relatedto this Agreement until –

(i)The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank,at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the Parent Union(the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)

(ii)The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms ofconciliation to resolve such dispute with the Bank and / or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.

(iii)In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice inwriting of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute andthat it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation ofCeylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.

25. Union Check-off Facilities.– (i) During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty(40) per cent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement such employer shall continue to grant check-off, provided,

26 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provisionsof this Collective Agreement.

26. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.– (i) Where either the Union or the Bank is dissatisfied with the mannerin which the Collective Agreement is being implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technologychange such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank. The Union shall make its own nominations for thepurpose of meetings to be held with the Monitiring Committee. The Bank or the Union may request that the matter be placed before theMonitoring Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.

(ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1950.

27. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities andconcessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.

My No.: Cl/1827.

03 - 461

27 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

My No. CI/1827THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between Haymat (Pvt) Limited, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 of the one part and The United Tea,Rubber and Local Produce Worker’s Union, 513-2/1 Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 14th day of August 2014 is herebypublished in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Dispute Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition1956).HERATH YAPA,Commissioner of Labour.Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.10th February, 2015.

Collective Agreement No. 34 of 2014

PART I

CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO ANDCONNECTED THEREWITH

1. Persons covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the employer, the Union and the members of the Union whoare employed by the Employer in a manual or labouring capacity on monthly contracts of employment and for whom provision has beenmade in the wage scales set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.

2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the Twenty Sixth day of May Two Thousand andFourteen and shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Actin writing to the other subject to the following provided:–

That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the Twenty Fifth of May Two Thousand and Seventeenand no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid.

3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions ofthis Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employeecovered and bound by this Agreement,whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or whichshall come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.

4. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.Provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee,the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to theEmployee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation theEmployer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated forunsatisfactory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer theEmployee shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probationor extended probation, as the case may be, ended.

5. Attendance.–

(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer and Employee shall present himself for work on everyday (otherthan a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughoutthe normal working hours.

(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation he shall be deemedto be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of theEmployer where work is available.

(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable toappropriate disciplinary action.

28 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

6. Hours of Work.– The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be eight (8) hours on a normal working day anda period of six (6) hours on a short working day exclusive of intervals for meals/rest whether on shift or otherwise.

General/ 1st shift–7.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m.2nd shift–4.30 p.m. to 1.30 a.m.3rd shift–1.30 a.m. to 7.30 a.m.

7. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himselfavailable for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct hiswages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.

8. Overtime.–

(1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the Employer.Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shallconstitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to approporiate disciplinary action.

(2) Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (1 1/2)times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisons of clause 16(a) hereof.

9. Weekly Holiday and Saturdays.– 1. In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in thatweek as the weekly holiday provided however, that if an Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28)hours, exclusive of any period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitledto deduct one day’s wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof.

2. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include -

(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as annual holiday;(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause 11 hereof; and(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.

3. The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:

(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday withremuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and theEmployer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then andin such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed inaccordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employeewithin six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weeklyholidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee.–

(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which thatEmployee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid,pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in lieu of such alternateholiday, or

(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid inrespect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’swage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.

(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–

(a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a)hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and

(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof for eachsubsequent hour of work.

29 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employerfor periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.

4. Saturday is a working day - 7.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. as per clause 6.

10. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant WagesBoards. In the case of Employees in the Coir Fibre Mats Manufacturing Trade the annual holidays shall be in terms of the decision of theWages Board for the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade.

11. Public Holidays.– (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant WagesBoards. In the case of Employees in the Coir Fibre Mats Manufacturing Trade the Public holidays shall be in terms of the decision of theWages Board for the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade. Provided however, that an Employee may be employed on a publicholiday in accordance with the decisions of the aforesaid Wages Boards.

(2)If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a dayeither in the Six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shallbe granted to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 hereof.

(3)If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday thenumber of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding the Saturday shall be five andone half (5 1/ 2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.

12.Casual Leave.– (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment, thatEmployee shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill - health, if that Employee’s entitlementto sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as “Casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of periodsnot exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however,that not more than two (2) days’ casual leave shall be taken at any time, save and except upon the ground of ill- health. Provided further, thatany Employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual holidays.Provided further that in respect of any Employee’s first year of employment, including any period of probation, he shall be entitled to casualleave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.

(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the application.Where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possibleafter the application is made and in such case, the Employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the Employermay decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.

13.Sick Leave.– In any year, an Employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days. Provided that –(a)His illness is supported by a Medical certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner (unless waived by his Employer) and

(b)The Employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 4 hereof. Provided however, that an Employee who hasbeen on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be entitledto sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick leave not exceeding five(5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.

14.Monthly Consolidated Wages in Lieu of CCPI Consolidation.–

(1)Subject to the provisions of Clause 15 hereof and the Employers right to make deductions from wages in terms of the practicesprevailing at the date of this Agreement and also subject to the existing practices in relation to the performance by employeesof work in other grades (whether in higher or lower grades), as from the Twenty Sixth day of May Two Thousand andFourteen, each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthlyconsolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule 1 hereto.

(2)The scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedule 1 hereto include all Statutory Allowances as at the date of thisAgreement.

(3)This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.

(4)The Wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this Agreement will be revised as follows:

- A Sum of Rs. 1,000/- would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of NovemberTwo thousand and Fourteen.4A – G 21109

30 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

- A Sum of Rs. 1,200/- would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of NovemberTwo thousand and Fifteen.

- A Sum of Rs. 1,300/- would be consolidated to the wages payable to each employee with effect from First day of NovemberTwo thousand and Sixteen.

(5)If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka -

(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging theEmployer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in termsof such written law;

(b) recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether ornot such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.

14A.Incentive Payments.– The existing system of incentive payments shall continue subject to the changes in norms agreed with theUnion morefully described in Schedule II.

15.Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.–

(a)For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall receive with effect from the Twenty Sixth day of May TwoThousand and Fourteen on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule I hereto the following provisons subject to theprovisions of Clause 14 above shall apply:–

(i)All Employees shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to 13% of their wages as at 25th May, 2014.

(ii)Each Employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point on the wage scale in Schedule I whithout change ingrade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.

(iii)The Rs. 300/- Strike Settlement Allowance received by all Employees will be consolidated to their basic wage with effectfrom 26th May, 2014 and from that date they will cease to be entitled to a Strike Settlement Allowance.

(b) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall receive with effect from the Twenty Sixth day of May TwoThousand and Fifteen on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule I hereto the following provisions subjectto the provisions of Clause 14 above shall apply.

(i) All Employees shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to 1% of their wages as at 25 May 2015.

(ii) Each Employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point on the wage scale in Schedule I whithout change ingrade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.

(c) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall receive with effect from the Twenty Sixth day of May TwoThousand and Fifteen on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule I hereto the following provisions subjectto the provisions of Clause 14 above shall apply.

(i) All Employees shall be given an increase in wage of a sum equivalent to 1% of their wages as at 25th May, 2016.

(ii) Each Employee shall thereafter be placed at the corresponding point on the wage scale in Schedule I whithout change ingrade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.

(d) The wage increases referred to at Clauses 15(a)(i), 15(b)(i) and 15(c)(i) hereof is in consideration of the Agreement reachedbetween the Union and the Employer for higher output norms as per Schedule II attached hereto.

16. Wages for periods less than one month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less thanone month shall be computed in the manner following:

31 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(a) for one hourthe monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)(b) for one daythe monthly wage divided by thirty (30)(c) for one half daya day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)(either morning or afternoon)(d) for one weeka day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)

17. Annual lump sum payment in lieu of non-recurring cost of living gratuity .- (1) A lump sum payment on an ex-gratia basiswould be made on the following basis:–

(i) A sum of Rs. 23,000/- payable in November 2014 for the period from 01st November, 2013 to 31st October, 2014.

(ii) A sum of Rs. 23,000/- payable in November 2015 for the period from 01st November, 2014 to 31st October, 2015.

(iii) A sum of Rs. 24,000/- payable in November 2016 for the period from 01st November, 2015 to 31st October, 2016.

(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these ex-gratia payments.

18. Provident Fund.- (1)The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by theEmployees’ Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.

(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at thedate hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’sProvident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.

19. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12of 1983.

20. Bonus.– An annual bonus as decided by the Management would be paid to employees depending on the profitability of thecompany. In the event a dispute arises in this regard both parties hereby agree to follow the disputes procedures as set out in clause 28 ofthis Agreement.

21. Annual Increments.– 1. The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the Schedule 1hereto shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality ordisciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –

(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;

(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;

(c) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependentupon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stoppednor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shalloccur to the employee concerned.

Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writingof a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in thecircumstances does not merit termination of employment.

(2) With effect from 26th May, 2014 the incremental rates will be as follows :

Grade 2Rs. 75/ -Int MedRs. 75/ -ESSRs. 100/ -

22. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, bya letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to theEmployee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.

32 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

23. Suspension.– 1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer –

(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry.

2.At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall providethe Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold aninquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 24 hereof.

24. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then:

1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 23 hereof or not, the Employee shall be furnishedwith a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against suchEmployee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than Three (3) clear working days in which to givethe answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.

2. within Three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to theEmployer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in thecircumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish awritten answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of thecase.

3. If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is undersuspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.

4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and suchanswer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Ten (10) working daysfrom the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.

5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show causenotice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order exceptfor reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working daysfrom the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respectof such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.

6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that;

(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to theprovisions of sub-clause 23(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespec-tive of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to thecharges in the show cause notice;

(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspen-sion and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;

(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employeris unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authoritiesfor further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if inview of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previouslyreferred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations orinquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.

7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)working days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remunerationfor a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspensionin excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of thepreceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.

33 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

8. In any case where the Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs(a) to (c) of sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented fromso doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed betweenthe Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for suchfurther time as may be agreed.

9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employerproposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if theUnion disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of aninquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall thenapply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after thereceipt of the Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

25. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be Employed by theEmployer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that anEmployee who has retired may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms asmay be mutually agreed.

26. Termination of Services.- (1) Every contract,whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except forwork usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof or unless otherwiseexpressly stipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable frommonth to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to theother of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.

(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereofat the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or periodor on the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.

27. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members who is employed inany work - place of the Employer, bound by this agreement in regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as mattersaffecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall apply :-

(1)When the Union is representative of not less than forty per cent. (40%) of the Employees whose membership subscription isnot in arrears, the Employer of such employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters andnegotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty per cent. (40%)of such Employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated withthe Unions competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each suchUnion.

(2)When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work - place and the claim or matter isrestricted to one type of business or one work - place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees inthe service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined byreference to the duly qualified members of such Union in Proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of theEmployer in Sri Lanka.

28. Disputes Procedure.– (1) In the first instance, the union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer ofsuch members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If, in the Union’s opinion, the Employer’sreply is unsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.

(2)If there is no settlement the Union shall take up such unresolved dispute with the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and thediscussion would be held at the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon with all parties to resolve such dispute.

(3)When the Union conclude that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive, it shall ask the Department of Labour tointervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conference and /or discussions with a viewto a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until theDepartment of Labour reports failure.

(4)Subject to the provisions of clause 30 hereof, all disputes between the union and the Employer or between the parties heretoshall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.

34 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(5)Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of thisAgreement.

29. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly arising from the implementa-tion of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled by negotiation,it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.

30. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance inforce of this Agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action against the Employer, in respect of any disputebetween the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such dispute hasbeen caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body, (by whatsoever name called), of the Union is mala fideor vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of that Union and/ or its members or is grossly unfairor seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and /or its members. Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days notice in writing shallbe given by the Union to the Employer, the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of anyintended strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon, an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (bywhatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activitiesof the Union and / or its members is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and/ or its members.

31. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.– (1)The Union and the Employees jointly and sever-ally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary alter or add to allor any of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by thisagreement as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employeescovered and bound by this Agreement, other than by mutual agreement.

(2) The Employer agrees with the union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all orany of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees other than by mutual agreement.

(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntaryarbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntaryarbitration.

32. Productivity Improvement and Elimination of Waste.– The Employees agree to cooperate with the employer to enhanceproductivity levels, comply with health and safety procedures and practices, various projects implemented by management to minimizewaste in all forms in the mutual interest of preserving the future of the Company. The Employees will cooperate with the management tostrive to exceed the minimum norms fixed for payment of incentives and to ensure optimum utilization of machine capacity.

PART II

CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION

1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a breach of anyof he terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions grantedby the Employer in the succeeding clasuses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restoresuch facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.

2. Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 24 is a member of the union,the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice-

(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘anObserver’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for absence from work.

(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuantto such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of theinquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.

(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall notbe entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

35 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any mannerwhatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.

(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, northe proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.

3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to Meetings of the Union:-

(a) In respect of each meeting, which the Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shallbe previously made to the Employer.

(b) If the employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the undernoted conditions

(i) That no person other than an Employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General meeting of the Union, Office Bearers of the Parent Union may, with theprevious approval of the employer, attend;(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.

(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of theUnion is granted, are duly complied with.

(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in connectionwith a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s premises and the Unionshall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.

4. Duty Leave.– (1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave:

Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of thecircumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two office bearers ofthe Union

(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or theDepartment of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.

or

(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals–

without loss of wages for such absence.

2. The Employer will in his discretion grant leave without remuneration to an employee to attend a Trade Union course orseminar or conference, either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidayswhich he wishes to utilise for the purpose.

(5) Check-off.- (1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Unionrepresents no less than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.

(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the currentmonthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit theamount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafterset forth.

(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the formset out in Form No. 1 referred to as an ‘Authorization’.

(4) Every Employee shall be entitiled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effectin the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’.

(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date ofreceipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.

36 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

(6) As far as practicable deductions under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling suchauthorization. Provided however –

(a) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failureto comply with sub-clauses 5 or 6;

(b) That at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month inwhich the deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law;

(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of theEmployees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of eachauthorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.

(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concernd by post in a prepaid envelope addressed tothe Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.

(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.

(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than theUnion’s dues actually deducted.

FORM NO. 1

Name of Employer: HAYMAT (PVT) LIMITED

Authorization

As I am an Employee covered and bound by the HAYMAT (PVT) LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2014 and I desire to availmyself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the UNITED TEA,RUBBER AND LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees …………………(Rs. ) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The firstpayment should please be made from my wages due immediately following the date hereof.

………………………………………………………………(Date of signing)(Signature of Employee)

………………………………………………………………(Full name of Employee)(Checkroll Number)

Received on ………………………………(To be filled by the Employer)

FORM NO. 2

Name of Employer: HAYMAT (PVT) LIMITED

Revocation

With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour ofUNITED TEA, RUBBER AND LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, with effect from the wages next due to me immediatelyfollowing the date hereof.

………………………………………………………………(Date of signing)(Signature of Employee)

………………………………………………………………(Full name of Employee)(Checkroll Number)

Received on ………………………………(To be filled by the Employer)

37 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

PART III

CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS

In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite tothem.

WordsMeaning

Branch UnionThe Branch Union at the factory

Check-offThe act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptionspayable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.

EmployeeAn employee covered and bound by this Agreement.(For convenience sometimes referred toas ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)

EmployerHaymat (Pvt) Ltd

FederationEmployers’ Federation of Ceylon

Industrial Disputes ActThe Indusrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950

Normal Incremental DateThe date on which an employee would normally receive and increment

Relevant Wages BoardThe Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is employed in

UnionUnited Tea Rubber and Local Produce Workers Union

WageThe monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule hereto.

WeekThe period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeedingSaturday night.

YearA continuous period of twelve (12) months

Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminineWords importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa

38 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

SC

39 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

40 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

41 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

42 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

03 - 462

43 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

My No.: CI / 487.THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Collective Agreement entered into between, Bata Shoe Company of Ceylon Ltd., No. 100, General Sir John Kotalawala Road, Ratmalanaof the one part and Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 02 of the other part on 28th day of February,2014 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (RevisedEdition 1956).

HERATH YAPA,Commissioner of Labour.Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.18th February, 2015.

Collective Agreement No. 19 of 2014

This Collective Agreement made this Twenty Eighth day of February Two Thousand Fourteen, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Actbetween Bata Shoe Company of Ceylon Limited, having its registered office at No. 100, General Sir John Kotalawala Road, Ratmalana( hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) of the One Part and the Wanija Ha Karmika Sewaka Sangamaya, a Trade Union duly registeredunder the Trade Unions’ Ordinance and having its registered office at No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 02. ( hereinafter referred to as “theUnion”), of the Other Part.

WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows : -

TITLE : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the Bata Manual and Labour Workforce wages Collective Agreement 2014.

PART – 1

1. Employees’ Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind only members of the Union who are employedat the date of signing this Agreement in a manual or labouring capacity by the Company but will not be applicable to employees employed insuch capacities who are on probation or are employed by the day or by the job or by the journey.

2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of January Two Thousand Twelve, andshall thereafter continue in force unless determined by either party with six months, notice in writing, provided that neither party shall give suchnotice to the other party before the first day of July 2014 and such notice shall not expire until 31 st December 2014.

3. Whereas negotiations took place between the said parties for a revision of the wages agreed in the Collective Agreement 2009entered into on the Twenty Second day of December Two Thousand Nine, in respect of the employees who are employed in an official orlabouring capacity by the Company, and a revised agreement has been reached in respect of wages, it is agreed on behalf of the partiesconcerned, as follows:–

4. Wages. – The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement with effect from 1 st January 2012 shallbe as follows :-

(i) With effect from 1 st January 2012, the salaries of all employees in employment at the date hereof shall be increased by 5% ofthe basic salary.

(ii) With effect from 1 st January 2013, the salaries of all employees in employment at the date hereof shall be increased by 5% ofthe basic salary.

(iii) With effect from 1 st January 2014, the salaries of all employees in employment at the date hereof shall be increased by 6% ofthe basic salary.

5. In respect of the period 1 st January 2012 to 28 th February 2014, the Employer shall pay notional arrears based on the increasedwages as mentioned above.

6. It is also agreed hereby that Temporary Relief Allowance of Rupees one thousand paid monthly to the employees with effect fromOctober 2012 will be deducted from the above mentioned notional arrears.

44 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.02PART I : SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.03.2015

7. The Provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the Collective Agreement signed on 22 ndDecember 2009, as regards the increase of wages agreed upon in the Collective Agreement signed on 22nd December 2009. Therest of the terms, conditions and facilities of the said Agreement of 22nd December 2009 will be applied and strictly followedof the above said Agreement (signed on 22nd December 2009).

8. Parties agreed that the remuneration package as determined under Clause (4) above shall remain in force until 31 st December2014 and neither party shall, in any manner, act or attempt to add to, waive or alter the remuneration package or any of the directmonetary payments currently applicable to the employees.

9. The parties, once again, agree to co-operate and commit themselves in improving the policy and productivity of the Companyand engage in more dialogue and settlement of operational issues at Company level, in harmony.

10. This Agreement is entered into in accordance with the provisions of the Collective Agreement between the parties signed on theTwenty Second day of December Two Thousand Nine and until such time the provisions of the said Agreement is re-negotiated.

The terms, conditions and facilities of the said agreement shall apply and remain other than in respect of the matters covered herein.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties aforesaid have hereunder set their hands at Colombo, on this Twenty Eighth day of FebruaryTwo Thousand Fourteen.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

03 - 463