==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'10'08PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA – 08.10.20181AY%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

wxl 2092$14 – 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 08 jeks i÷od – 2018'10'08No. 2092/14 – MONDAY, OCTOBER 08, 2018

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A – PG4271 – 12 (10/2018)

UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

The Revised Charter amendment of Uva Provincial Passenger Transport Service Authorityof Uva Provincial Council I wish to publish the proposed charter amendment below for getting views from the public.

This amendment have to be forward for getting kind approval from Uva Provincial Council after 10 days from the date ofpublished and therefore please be kind enough to send your comments and suggestions in writing within 10 days from the dateof published to my address mentioned below.

BALAGE SALIYA SUMEDHA DE SILVA,Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs, Tourism, TransportCultural Affairs and Textiles and Small Industries,Uva Provincial Council,Badulla.

26th of September, 2018,Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs, Tourism, Transport,Cultural Affairs, Textile and Small Industries,Uva Provincial Council,Badulla.

2AIV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'10'08PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA – 08.10.2018

THE REVISED CHARTER (AMENDMENT) FOR UVA PROVINCIAL PASSENGER TRANSPORT SERVICEAUTHORITY

A charter came into operation for amending the charter for Passenger Transport Service Authority of No. 01of 2001.

Uva Provincial Council of Uva Province of Democratic Socialistic Republic of Sri Lanka do hereby enact thischarter.

1. This charter shall be cited as the charter (amendment) for Road Passenger Transport Service Authorityof No........ of 2018 and it shall come into operation from the day it receives the approval of theGovernor of Uva Province.

2. The term ‘‘Passenger Transport Service Authority’’ in the preface of the charter for Passenger TransportService Authority of No. 01 of 2001 of Uva Provincial Council herein after referred as the main chartershall be hereby amended by substituting the term’’ Road Passenger Transport Service Authority’’.

3. Instead of the term ‘‘establishing Passenger Transport Authority for Uva Province’’ referred to in part1 of the main charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘establishing Road Passenger Transport ServiceAuthority for Uva Province‘‘ and the said section is hereby amended.

4. Instead of the term ‘‘Passenger Transport Service’’ referred in section 3 of the main charter shall bereplaced with the term ‘‘Road Passenger Transport Service’’ and the said section is hereby amended.

5. Instead of the terms referred in section 6 (a) of the main charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘ofthirteen members’’ for ‘‘of eleven members’’, the term ‘‘six members with official powers’’ for ‘‘fivememebers with official powers’’ the term ‘‘seven appointed members’’ for ‘‘six appointed members’’.

6. Instead of the term ‘‘Passenger Trasport’’ refferred in section 6(b)(1)(2) of the main charter shall bereplaced with the term ‘‘Transport’’ and the said section is hereby amended.

7. Following sub section shall be included further to the sub section (6)(c)(5) of the main charter and itshall come into force as sub section 6 (c)(6) of the main charter.

‘‘6 (c)(6) Motor Traffic Inspector’’

8. Instead of the term ‘‘three persons’’ referred in the section 6 (e)(1) of the main charter shall be replacedwith the term ‘‘two persons’’ and the said sub section is hereby amended.

9. Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section (6)(e)(3) of the main charter.‘‘Two persons from the root permit holders of Uva Provicial Transport Service Authority’’.

10. Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 6(e) 4 (a)(i) of the main charterand it shall come into force as subsection 6 (e)(4)(a) of the main charter. 6 (e)(4)(a) Regional officer ofSri Lanka Transport Board.

11. Instead of the term ‘‘out of members of the Authority’’ referred in the main charter shall be replacedwith the term ‘‘out of the members of Director Board of the Authority’’ and the said sub section ishereby amended.

Brief title anddate ofcommencement.

Amending thepreface of themain charter.

Amending theheadline of thepart 1 of themain charter.

Amending thesection 3 of themain charter.

Amending thesection 6(a) ofthe main charter.

Amending thesection 6(c) (1)(2) of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 6(c)(6)of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 6(e)(1)of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 6(e)(3)of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 6(e)4 (a)(i) of the maincharter.

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'10'08PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA – 08.10.20183A

12. Following new sub section shall be included further to the section 11 of the main charter and the saidsub section shall come into force as sub section 11 (a) of the main charter.

‘‘11 (a) term of the office of the appointed members shall be ended by not attending three times to theDirector Board meetings without prior informing.’’

13. Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 19 (a) of the main charter.

‘‘Inspecting and surveying on the availability of a sufficient vehicle service with an acceptable levelof quality and setting the standards in relation to those services for fulfilling the passenger and goodstransport requirement within and in relation to Uva Provice’’.

14. Following sub section shall be included by rescinding the sub section 19(c) of the main charter.

‘‘Making regulations in relation to issuing, renewing, ameding and cancelling of permit or any otherauthority to a certain person or institution to deploy a vehicle for goods and passenger tranport onseparate charges’’.

15. Instead of the term ‘‘of sub section (3)’’ referred in the sub section 19(d) of the main charter shall be

replaced with the term ‘‘of sub section (c)’’ and that section is hereby amended.

16. Instead of the term ‘‘for passenger transport service permit holder’’ referred to in the sub-section 19(e) of the main charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘for road passenger transport authorityservice permit holder’’ and that section is hereby amended.

17. Instead of the term ‘‘for passenger transport service permits’’ referred to in the sub-section 19 (f) ofthe main charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘for road passenger transport authority servicepermits’’ and that section is hereby amended.

18. Instead of the term ‘‘a bus deploys for passenger transport service under the authority of passengertransport service permit’’ referred to the sub section 19 (g) of the main charter shall be replaced withthe term ‘‘a vehicle deploys for road passenger transport service under the authority of road passengertransport service permit or a charter’’ and that section is hereby amended.

19. Instead of the term ‘‘the drivers and conductors of the buses deploy for passenger transport serviceunder the authority of passenger transport service permit’’ referred to in the sub-section 19(h) of themain charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘the drivers and conductors of the buses deploy forroad passenger transport service under the authority of road passenger transport service permit orauthority permit’’ and that section is hereby amended.

20. Instead of the term ‘‘the passenger transport permit’’ referred to in the sub-section 19 (i) (j) of themain charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘the road passenger transport service authority permit’’and those sections are hereby amended.

21. Following sub-section shall be included by rescinding the sub-section 19(k) of the main charter

Prescribing the reports that should be maintained or presented to the authority in relation to thepersons to be deployed as the drivers, assistants and conductors of the buses set out for roadpassenger transport service, by a road passenger transport service permit holder issued underthis charter and under the authority of said permit and in relation to the time schedules of startingand finishing the service of that person.

Including theNew Sub-section11(a) of themain charter.

Accommodatingthe section 19(a) of the maincharter.

Accommodatingthe section 19(c) of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 19 (d) ofthe maincharter.

Amending thesection 19 (e) ofthe maincharter.

Amending thesection 19 (f) ofthe maincharter.

Amending thesection 19 (g) ofthe maincharter.

Amending thesection 19 (h)of the maincharter.

Amending thesub-section 19(i) (j) of themain charter.

Accommodatingthe section 19(k) of the maincharter.

4AIV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'10'08PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA – 08.10.2018

22. Following sub-section shall be included by rescinding the sub-section 19(p) of the main charter andthat should come into force as the sub-section 19(p) (i) and 19(p) (ii) of the main charter.

19 (I) (i) registering the road passenger transport service vehicles owners’ unions, improving thecontribution, enacting the regulations and enacting the provisions for providing guidance and aids,supports, services and welfare facilities seemed to be required.

19 (I) (ii) establishing unions for controlling, formalizing and improving the quality of road passengertransport services, registering and enacting the regulations related to them and enacting provisionsfor providing guidance and welfare facilities seemed to be required.

23. Instead of the term ‘‘for the passenger transportation’’ referred to in the sub-section 19 (q) (ii) of themain charter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘for the road passenger transport service’’ and thatsection is hereby amended.

24. The sub-section 19 (q) ii of the main charter hereby amended by including the following newSub-section further to it and it shall come into force as Sub-section 19 (q) iii of the main charter.

19 (q) iii - an arbitration board shall be established for resolving the conflicts happen in relation to theall service providers, service receivers of every road passenger transport service, officers and servantsof the authority.

25. Following subsection shall be included by rescinding the sub-section 19 (r) of the main charter andit shall come into force as 19 (r) (i) and 19 (r) (ii) of the main charter.19 (r) (i) Making the regulation on,

01. Service rights;02. Professional skills facilities and feasibility;03. Disciplines and order that should obey while in service;04. Uniforms, badges or symbols that should wear while in service.

in relation to the drivers, conductors and driving assistants employed in the passenger and goodstransport service vehicles.

19 (r) (iii) Establishing, maintaining and developing a professional training institution by the authorityfor the drivers, conductor and driving assistants deploy in road passenger transport service.

26. The Sub-section 19 (t) of the main charter hereby amended by including following new Sub-sectionfurther to it and it shall come in to force as Sub-section 19 (u) of the main charter.

Keeping a vehicle service station by the authority for the quality of the vehicles deploy in the roadpassenger transport service and maintaining, prescribing the charges of the service maintenanceand making the regulations related to it.

27. Following section shall be included by rescinding the section 21 of the main charter.

Required carder shall be decided by the Director Board of the Transport Authority and the approvalof the National Salaries and Carder Commission should be taken with the recommendation of theChief Secretary of Uva Provincial Council and with the recommendation of the Secretary of theMinistry in charge of Transport and with the agreement of the Minister in charge of Transport.

28. Instead of the term ‘‘above paragraph 22’’ referred to in the sub-section 22 (1) of the main chartershall be replaced with the term ‘‘above paragraph 21’’ and that sub section is hereby amended.

Accommodatingthe section 19(p) of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 19 (q)(ii) of the maincharter.

Including thesection 19 (q)(iii) of the maincharter.

AccommodatingSub-section 19(r) of the maincharter.

Including newSub- section 19(t) of the maincharter.

Amending thesection 21 ofthe maincharter.

Amending theSub- section 22(t) of the maincharter.

IV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'10'08PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA – 08.10.20185A

29. Instead of the term ‘‘he should liable to one of the punishments of a fine not more that Rs. 2,000.00or for a imprisonment not more than one year’’ referred to in the sub-section 29 (a) of the main chartershall be replaced with the term ‘‘he should liable to a punishment of a fine not more thatRs. 100,000.00 or for a imprisonment not more than two years with light works’’ and that section ishereby amended.

30. Instead of the term ‘‘he should liable to one of the punishments of a fine not more that Rs. 2,000.00or for a imprisonment not more than 12 months’’ referred to in the sub-section 29 (a) of the maincharter shall be replaced with the term ‘‘he should liable to one of the punishments of a fine not morethat Rs. 100,000.00 or for a imprisonment not more than two years with light works’’ and that sectionis hereby amended.

31. Section 32 of the main charter hereby removed and following new section shall be replaced insteadof that.

Responsibility on general supervision on credits to the authority fund, paying form that andadministrating this money in proper way and accounting shall be assigned to the General Manager.

32. The Section 33 of the main character shall be replaced with the term ‘‘formalizing road passengertransport service’’ for the term ‘‘formalizing passenger transport service’’ and the term ‘‘ bus standsand vehicle parks’’ for the term ‘‘bus stand’’

33. Section 36 of the main charter hereby removed and following new sub-section shall be replacedinstead of that and those Sub-sections shall come into force as sub-section 36 (a) and 36 (b) of themain charter.

36 (a) monthly account statements shall be investigated by the internal audit branch and shall besent to the accounts unit of the authority before the end of the next month.

36 (b) Annual account reports should be forwarded to the Auditor General before the 31st of theMarch of the coming year from the end of the financial year.

34. Section 37 of the main charter hereby rescinded.

35. Section 40 of the main charter hereby removed and following new sub section shall be replacedinstead of that,‘‘On the agreement of the Director Board of the Authority one or several accounts may be maintainedin a government bank.’’

36. Following section unders the interpretation 45 of the main charter shall be removed and followingnew sections shall be added instead of that.

Instead of the term‘‘ ‘authority’ ‘provincial authority’ means ‘Uva Provincial passenger transportauthority’ ’’shall be replaced with the term ‘‘means Uva Provincial road Passenger trainsportauthority.’’

Instead of the term ‘‘Minister ‘means’ the Minister in charge of passenger transport service of UvaProvincial Cabinet’ ’’ shall be replaced with the term ‘‘Minister ‘means’ the Minister in charge oftransport service of Uva Provincial Cabinet.’’

Rescinding ofthe section 37of the maincharter.

Accommodatingthe section 40of the maincharter

Amending andaccommodatingthe section 45of the maincharter

Amending theSub- section 29(a) of the maincharter.

Amending thesub-section 29(b) of the maincharter.

Accommodatingsection 32 ofthe maincharter.

Amending theSub-section 33of the maincharter.

Accommodatingsection 36 ofthe maincharter.

6AIV ^w& fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'10'08PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA – 08.10.2018

Instead of the term ‘‘ any name from ‘permit’ ‘passenger service permit’ ‘passenger transportservice permit’ ‘root permit’ means the passenger service permit issued vesting the powers todeploy a bus in the root for passenger transport indicated in the permit on several charges underthis charter or another written law ‘‘shall be replaced with the term’’ means the road passengertransport service permit issued vesting the powers to deploy a vehicle in the root for passengeror goods transport indicated in the permit in several charges under the main charter or thischarter of another written law.’’

‘‘Transport permit’’ means the written permission given for passenger/goods or other transportin Uva Province.

‘‘Passengers’’ means the passengers transported by charging a fee from buses, three wheelers,garden vehicles, office services, garment services, school services and other vehicles.

‘‘Goods’’ means all the non passengers goods which transported on fees and rental basis.

37. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil or English texts of this charter, theSinhala text shall prevails.

10 - 1237

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA