==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2094$38 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'10'26

No. 2094/38 - FRIDAY OCTOBER 26, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A PG 4298 — 08 (10/2018)

Notification made as per Section 40(1) of Procedural Rules of Western Provincial Council

I, for the acknowledgement of public, hereby notify that the approval of Board of Ministers of Western Province has beengranted for the draft of Statute described in the following Schedule of this Statute of Western Provincial Tourist Boardunder the decision of Board of Ministers No. VI/113/03-2018-02(i) and dated 20.03.2018 and it is scheduled to beproposed by me for the approval of Western Provincial Council.

ISURA DEVAPRIYA,Chief Minister of Western ProvinceMinister of Local Government, Economic Promotion,

Power and Energy, Enviornmental Affairs,Water Supply and Drainage and Tourist Affairs.

10th October, 2018.

TOURIST BOARD STATUTE OF THE WESTERN PROVINCE NO. .... OF 2018

A statute to enhance the professional skills of those who engage in tourist affairs in the Western Province,provide the guidence necessary for them and support, services, improve the standard of tourist services, develop theinfrastructure facilities in the vicinity of locations with tourist attraction and promote local and foreign tourist affairs ofthe province, establish the Western Provincial Tourist Board, repeal Tourist Board Statute of Western Province No. 03 of1994 and to provide provision for the incidentals thereto.

Be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.20182A

01. This Statute shall be cited as the Western Provincial Tourist Board Statute No. .... of 2018 of

Western Province and shall come into operation on receiving the assent of the Governor of theWestern Province.

PART I

Establishment of the Western Provincial Tourist Board

02.(1) Western Provincial Tourist Board, hereinafter referred to as the “Board” shall be

established hereby

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it by the subsection (1) be a corporate

establishment with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

PART II

Objectives and Powers of the Board

03. Objectives of the Board shall be as follows

1) Enhancing the professional skills of those who engage in formal and informal tourist

services and who incline to jobs in the field of tourism and providing guidance and supportservices.

2) Improving the service standard of institutions that provide formal and informal tourist

services within the province.

3) Developing the infrastructure facilities around the identified locations with tourist

attraction.

4) Promoting facilities to exercise multiple tourist experiences for the leisure and

entertainment of local and foreign tourists.

5) Advertising the identified locations with tourist attraction in the province in local and

foreign level.

6) Encouraging the entrepreneurs of the field of tourism in the province and providing

advisory services.

7) Developing the inter-provincial co-operation for advertising tourist affairs of the province

in local and foreign level.

04. Powers of the Board are as follows

(1) to purchase, rent or acquire, hold any movable or immovable property and also to sell

subject to the conditions of entrusted instrument, lease or mortagage.

(2) to establish and maintain premises related to the activities regarding the training of tourist

affairs and the attainment of its objectives.

(3) to enter into local and foreign agreements or contract within the extent of the power

granted by the Constitution for attainment of the objectives of the Board.

Short title and thedate of operation.

Establishment ofthe tourist Board.

Objectives of theBoard.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.2018

(4) to conduct, coordinate and direct training affairs leading to the attainment of the objectives

and to regulate the trained.

(5) to set up plans for the registration and direction of the institutions that render tourist

services.

(6) to order and levy fees or charges for the services rendered by the Board.

(7) to prescribe work procedure necessary for the management of the staff of the Board.

(8) to receive and bear donations necessary for the attainment of the objectives of the Board.

(9) to organize tourist travel and to co-operate with tourist travel and other agencies and

engage in them.

(10) all the powers necessary to attain any matter that shall come under the objectives

mentioned in this statute.

PART III

Board of Directors

5. There shall be a Board of Directors to carry out all the administrative affairs of the Board

consisting of the following.

(1) Ex-officio members that shall be appointed ;

(a) Secretary of the Subject Ministry or his representative ;

(b) Commissioner of Local Government ;

(c) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) ;

(d) A representative appointed by the Secretary of the Ministry under which the subject

of tourism comes; and

(2) There shall be three members appointed by the Minister. At least one person among them

shall have a sound knowledge about field of tourism and experience in the same and oneamong them shall be appointed as the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The Minister shall issue the appointment letters for the appointments mentioned in the

substitution (1) and (2)

6. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or from continuing as a member of the

Board :

(a) if he is a Member of the Parliament, a Member of a Provincial Council, or a Member of

the Local Authority ; or

(b) if he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or

(c) if it is decided or declared that he is a lunatic by a certain law in force in Sri Lanka or any

other country ; or

Board of Directorsof the Board.

Ex-officio members.

MembersAppointed.

Disqualificationsfor being amember.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.20184A

(d) if he is, or was under a penalty order of impriosnment ordered by a Court of Sri Lanka or

any other country ; or

(e) if it has been declared by a Court that he has become insolvent.

7.(1) Each appointed member of the Board shall hold the office of a period that does not exceed

three years, counted from the date of appointment and as decided by the Minister at thetime of making the appointment. Further, he shall not be ineligible for re-appointmentexcept at the removal from the office under sub-section 9(1).

(2) Where an appointed member resigns or is removed from office, the member appointed

for it shall hold the office only for the unexpired part of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

08.(1) Chairman's term of the office shall be the period of membership of the Board, subject to

the provisions of the subsection 9(1).

(2) Where the Chairman by reason of illness or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka,

temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint anothermember of the Board of Directors to act in his place.

(3) Where the role of the Chairman is found unsatisfying by the Minister, the appointment of

the Chairman may be terminated.

(4) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board, in the absence of the Chairman,

one out of the members of the Board of Directors present shall be elected to preside atsuch meeting.

9.(1) Where the role of any appointed member is found unsatisfying by the Minister, the

appointment of an appointed member may be terminated.

(2) An appointed member of the Board may resign from the office at any instances as a

member or as the Chairman, after the acknowledgment of the Minister's acceptance ofthe resignation letter, forwarded to the Minister.

10.(1) The quorum for any meeing of the Board of Directors shall be three members.

(2) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalidated by reason of the existence of a

vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of members thereof.

(3) A meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held at least once a month. Work procedure

of conducting meetings of the Board of Directors shall be in accordance with the rulesmade under this Statute.

(4) All the members of the Board of Directors or any member of it may be paid remuneration

allowance and other expenses from the fund of the Board with adherence to the circularsissued by the Provincial Treasury, instructions and provisions.

(5) The Board of Directors may be able to delegate its own powers and functions necessary

to control the affairs of the Board efficiently, to the Chairman, General Manager or anemployee of the Board.

Term of the Officeof theAppointedMembers.

Chairman'sterm of theoffice.

Removal fromtheMembership

Work procedureof the Board.

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.2018

(6) Where there is an equality of votes of the Board of Directors, regarding a certain matter,

the member who presides at that meeting shall own a casting vote.

(7) An eligible officer among the employee of the Board may be appointed as the Secretary

of the Board of Directors.

11.1. The seal of the Board shall be in the custody of the Director.

2. The seal of the Board shall be in such manner as may be determined by the Board of

Directors.

3. The seal of the Board shall not be affixed to any instrument, document or agreement

what-so-ever except in the presence of the Chairman and any other member of the Boardwho shall sign the instrument, document or agreement in token of their presence.

4. The Board shall maintain a register of the documents to which the seal of the Board is

affixed.

12. Written orders regarding the fulfillment of objectives of the Board and execution of powers

may be prescribed to the Board by the Minister in charge of the subject and the Board ofDirectors shall act for such orders.

PART IV

Chief Executive Officer of the Board and the Other Staff

13.1. The Secretary of the subject Ministry shall appoint the Board's Chief Executive Officer,

hereinafter referred to as the ''General Manager''; a fulltime person that would be recruitedas per the relevant approved scheme of recruitment.

However, as long as a formal scheme of recruitment for the post of General Manager isnot in force, an eligible person for the post of General Manager shall be appointed by theSecretary of the subject Ministry based on the consent of the Chief Secretary.

(2) Directing the affairs of the Board, organizing and implementing the affairs related to

powers and functions and administering the employees of the Board shall be vested uponthe General Manager subject to the ordinary provision and control of the Board ofDirectors.

(3) Other officers and employees considered as necessary for attaining its purpose efficiently,

may be appointed by the Chairman subject to the approved scheme of recruitment, afterreceiving the assent of the Board of Directors.

(4) Based on the request of the Board of Directors, an officer who is in the Western Provincial

Public Service, may be appointed for the staff of the Board for a period determined bythe Board of Directors, on the accord of such officer and the Secretary of the provincialsubject Minister in which such officer is in service and on the approval of the Governor.

The Seal of theBoard.

Powers of theMinister regardingthe Board.

Chief ExcutiveOfficer of theBoard.

Other staff of theBoard.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.20186A

PART V

Fund of the Board

14. There shall be a fund under the name of the Board, and to that fund,

(a) Finance appropriated to the Board from the Provincial Council as grants.

(b) All the finance collected as per the orders under this Statute.

(c) All the finance received by the Board as fees and charges ;

(d) All the finance received from Sri Lanka, outside of Sri Lanka or from any source in the

form of donations, presents or grants or any other form ;

(e) All the finance received by selling, renting, leasing or disposing the property, assets,

goods and equipment owned by the Board ;

(f) Finance received by the Provincial Council Fund or Local Government Institutions or

any other institution to carry out a certain special project or certain functions.

(g) Finance received as the profit, installment or any other form as a consequence of investing

or depositing cash owned by the Board ;

(h) Finance received by the Board from what-so-ever legal source, shall be credited.

15. Payments may be made from the fund of the undermentioned.

(1) Allowances payable to the members of the Board of Director of the Board ;

(2) Salary and other grants payable to the officers of the Board and employees ;

(3) Payments and allowances payable for the service providers of the Board ;

(4) All the expenses borne by the Board in the act of carrying out an fulfilling the powers,

functions, and purpose of the Board under this Statute.

16. The financial year of the Board shall be the calendar year.

17. Accounts and books shall be kept and maintained regarding the earnings and expenses, assets

and liabilities of the Board, Maintenance of accounts shall be in accordance with the regulationsprescribed under this Statute.

18. The Constituion No. 154 of the Constitution shall be applied for the auditing of the finance of

the fund of the Board.

Fund of the Board

Making Paymentsfrom the Fund

Financial Year

Accounts of theBoard

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.2018

PART VI

General

19.(1) The Minister may make regulations regarding the matters mentioned under this statute

and all the matters or a certain matter relevant to implement, enforce provisions, and levyfees under this Statute without causing any harm to the powers of this Statute.

(2) Under this Section, every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette

and shall come into operation on the date of publishing such manner or from a datementioned in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall be forwarded to the Provincial Council for

the approval within three months after publishing it in the Gazette. Any such regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be repealed as from the date of disapprovalbut without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

PART VII

Interim Provisions

20.(1) Since the date of receiving the approval of the Governor of Western Province for this

Statute. Tourist Board Statute of Western Province No. 03 of 1994 of Western ProvinceProvincial Council shall be repealed hereby.

(2) However,(a)All movable and immovable properties ;

(b)All assets and liabilities ;

(c)All responsiblilities and engagements ;

which were possessed by the Western Provincial Tourist Board established under theTourist Board Statute of Western Province No. 03 of 1994 ; shall be considered as themovable and immovable properties, assets and liabilities, responsibilities and engagementsof the Board under this Statute.

(3) Functioned performed under the Tourist Board Statute of Western Province No. 03 of

1994 ; shall be deemed to be the functions performed under this Statute.

(4) Every case filed by the Board or filed against the Board under the Tourist Board Statute

of Western Province No. 03 of 1994 ; shall be deemed to be the cases filed under thisStatute.

(5) Officers and employees of the Western Provincial Tourist Board established under the

Tourist Board Statute of Western Province No. 03 of 1994 ; shall be deemed to be theofficers and employees of this Board.

21. All members, officers and servants of the Board shall be deemed to be public servants within

the interpretation and for the functions of the Penal Code and the Authority shall be deemed tobe a scheduled institution for the functions of the Bribery Act.

Interim Provisions

Employees of theBoard deemed tobe public servantsunder Penal Code

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'26PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.10.20188A

22. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires-

“Province” means the Western Province ;

“Provincial Council” means the Western Province Provincial Council ;

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Tourism in the Board of Ministers,

Western Province ;

“Chief Secretary” means the Chief Secretary of the Western Province.

23. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala and Tamil text, Sinhala text shall prevail.

Interpretation

Sinhala Text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

11- 454