==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'18PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.04.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2119$12 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'04'18No. 2119/12 - THURSDAY APRIL 18, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4491— 67 (04/2019)

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

I, Kajiton Lalith Wanigaratne, Minister of Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade, Housing andConstructions, Estate Infrastucture Facilities, Industries and Rural Development of Western Province hereby announceunder the powers vested in me by Section No. 30 of Western Provincial Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute No. 01of 1992, revised by Western Province Provincial Council Road Passenger Carriage Service Statute No. 03 of 2007, theenactment of the following rules relating to the new transport system named as “Sahasara” introduced by the PassengerTransport Services Authority of Western Province.

KAJITON LALITH WANIGARATNE,Minister of Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade,Housing and Constructions, Estate Infrastucture Facilities,Industries and Rural Development,Western Province.

Ministry of Roads, Transport, Co-operative Development and Trade,Housing and Constructions, Estate Infrastucture Facilities,Industries and Rural Development,9th Floor, No. 204,Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,Battaramulla,18th April, 2019.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'18PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.04.20192A

Above said rules,

1. These rules are named as the rules of the new transport system “Sahasara” of the Passenger Transport ServicesAuthority of Western Province.

2.(i) Passenger Transport Services Authority of Western Province should identify operational areas through oneroute or group of routes and announce them within 36 months from the date of the Minister’s order ;

(ii) A manager should be appointed to administrate the announced operational area according to the newsystem ;

(iii) An operational Control Center should be established for each and every announced operational area or agroup of routes ;

(iv) The road/roads wherein these rules are to be implemented should be published through Gazettes andnewspapers prior to the implementation of these rules.

3.(i) Route permit holders should provide passenger transport services in their route or routes within the date ofthe operational areas announced or time period specified by the Passenger Transport Authority of theWestern Province under the administration of the manager appointed according to 2(ii) by the PassengerTransport Services Authority and buses should operate according to the timetables, regulations and servicestandards prescribed from time to time by the manager under the supervision of the Passenger TransportServices Authority.

(ii) All income earned on passenger and goods transport through electronic ticket machines and income earnedwithout an electronic machine due to a technical failure and all other income earned should be deposited ina bank approved by the Western Provincial Passenger Transport Services Authority which is accepted bythe Central Bank in an account named “Western Province Passenger Transport Services Authority”.

(iii) Only the buses that comprise Western Province Passenger Transport Services Authority approved electronicticket machines with GPS, CCTV and GPRS technology should be given permission to passengertransportation.

(iv) Except in a case of a technical failure the passenger transportation charges should always be collectedthrough electronic cards.

(v) A complete control unit should be opened and maintained to obtain data and information from electronicdevices fixed on buses and the data should be captured, safe guarded and used for the efficiency of the busservice.

(vi) The Western Province Passenger Transport Services Authority should announce the amount of money thatwill be paid for one kilo meter to owners of each route or group of routes, the profit of each route and bythe quality of the service provided by them from time to time.

(vii) Bus owners who are forwarding documents to prove that they are contributing properly for employeesthrough Employee Trust Fund should be given the permission for passenger transports.

(viii) Only buses proven that they are operated properly in a route or a group of routes for 02 months after fixingelectronic devices should be included in the “Sahasara” operation system.

(ix) Bus reservations should be branded as “Sahasara”

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'18PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.04.2019

(x) Management of the Bus Control Unit should be carried out by the Passenger Transport Services Authorityor a bus service manager approved by the Authority.

(xi) The Passenger Transport Services Authority should appoint investigation groups and transfer them therequired authority to investigate the efficiency of the transport services and proper bus transactions.

(xii) A suitable unit under the authority should be established to carry out and efficient public compliantmanagement.

(xiii) Suitable incentives should be provided to promote using electronic payament cards.

4. The orders cited in 2 and 3 should immediately be implemented within all the routes of the Western Provincesoon after from the date of the publication of the Gazette Notification.

5. The Passenger Transport Services Authority owns full authority of maintaining service quality and passengercomfort and all decisions taken to introduce new services.

6.(i) Passenger Transport Services Authority should carry out an operational area for technical and financialaudits by appointing qualified audit officers.

(ii) Should provide facilities to bus permit owners to check these audit reports when required.

(iii) These annual audit reports should be forwarded to the Provincial Council through subject Minister.

05 - 77

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.