1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2127$15 - 2019 cqks ui 12 jeks nodod - 2019'06'12

No. 2127/15 - WEDNESDAY, JUNE 12, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A- PG 4562—517 (06/2019)

GAZETTING OF THE UPDATED NATIONAL PHYSICAL PLANNING POLICY AND THE PLAN -

2050 APPROVED BY THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL PLANNING COUNCIL

I, Patali Champika Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development, do hereby publish, the Updated NationalPhysical Planning Policy and Plan - 2050, prepared under the Section 5(a) and (b) of the Town and Country Planning(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 2000, and approved by the National Physical Planning Council as per Section 3 (4a) of theAct on 26.02.2019, for the information of the general public.

PATALI CHAMPIKA RANAWAKA,Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.

Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,Suhurupaya,Battaramulla,01st June 2019.

Updated National Physical Planning Policy and Plan - 2050

BASED ON THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL PLANNING POLICY AND PLAN - 2030 APPROVED ON

03.07.2007 AND 09.11.2011

This document was prepared in accordance with Sections 5A(b) of the Town and Country Planning (Amendment)Act, No. 49 of 2000, under powers vested with Director General of National Physical Planning Department, as per

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Section 4B(c) of the Act ; the plan was recommended by the Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee on 07.09.2017and approved by the National Physical Planning Council chaired by His Excellency the President on 26.02.2019 as perSection 3(4a) of the Act.

Dr. JAGATH MUNASINGHE,Director General.

National Physical Planning Department,5th Floor,Sethsiripaya,Battaramulla.

THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL PLANNING POLICY AND THE PLAN - 2050

1.0 The Vision and Goals

1.1 Background

The team engaged in the updating of the National Physical Planning Policy has followed the process setout by the Town & Country Planning Ordinance No.13 of 1946, Amended by Act No.49 of 2000. Theprocess was also complimented with a series of studies and consultations of the experts, developmentagencies, stakeholders and interest groups.

1.2 Time Horizons

The Plan has been prepared for three time horizons which can be stated in the following manner:

1. Short term horizon: Five-year period (2020-25), whose state of affairs are mostly foreseeable to theplanning team. The current development trends, the policies adopted by the present governmentand the likely outcomes of them, and the development projects that are already in progress andlikely to have a major impact on the physical and social environment of the island are the keyfactors considered in planning for this horizon.

2. Medium term horizon: Ten to fifteen-year period (2030-35), the situation of which can be foreseenwith some level of certainty by the planning team. The improving quality of life and the socialstatus, the changing state of political affairs both locally and globally, and the fast evolvingtechnology that changes the entire development scenario of the country and the likely consequencesof such changes, are the considerations for this horizon.

3. Long term horizon: Twenty-five to thirty-year period (2050), the state of which is mostly beyondthe sight of the present day planning thoughts. Yet the core values those need to be preserved,expectations those will remain unchanged and the objectives those need to be achieved at anycost are the considerations for the proposals at this phase.

1.3The Vision Statement

The TimeHorizons

The Vision

iqks; iqn, iqyqre oehlaiqieÈ iq/ls fid÷re ìula

Neh;j;jpahd tsk; nghUe;jpa jpwd;kpF ehl;bw;fhdepiyahd jd;dpfuw;w jpl;lkplg;gl;l Njrk

Mannered, Geared and Smart Nationin a Planned, Sustained and Adored Land

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

1. Planned (a Built Environment that will facilitate an uncompromised growth in the economy,

continuous improvements to social well-being, and the optimum utility of the physical, social,economic and environmental resources)2. Sustained (a Development that will ensure the prolonged use of the land, ocean, water, human,

wildlife and other resources of the island)3. Adored (a Landscape whose unique physical characteristics and the socio-cultural

manifestations are retained amidst new developments)4. Mannered (Providing the ambiance appropriate for Peace and Harmony among people)5. Geared (Providing opportunities for improved Health, Wealth (Employment,)

Knowledge(Education), Skills (Training) and Power (Equity))6. Smart (Pave the way for innovative, progressive and embraced State-of-the Art Technology

and good practices).

1.4 The Broad Objective

The overall objective of the proposed plan is to provide the Government of Sri Lanka with a guide todevelop a physical environment that will facilitate Sri Lanka to become a smart nation and a competitiveeconomy of the world within the next decade and remain thereafter; ensuring the optimum and sustainableuse of the available assets and infrastructure, unexplored resources and the potentials of its land andocean space; exploiting the opportunities provided by the ongoing economic, political and technologicaladvances around the globe; and harnessing the potentials attributed by its strategic geographic locationin the Indian Ocean.

1.5 Goals

1.5.1 Short Term Goals (2020-25)

These goals need to be accomplished within the forthcoming five-year period, in order to facilitatethe achievement of the medium and long term goals.

a. Spatial structure, which consists of accommodative land uses, harmoniously integrated with

the natural geographic settings and an attuned distribution of human settlements with a hierarchyof service centers, connected through a widely spread road, rail and other infrastructure, etc, tofacilitate an unhindered growth in the economy, by means of convenience, efficiency andsafety for business and employment.

b. Development directives for an integrated and well-coordinated physical development projects

and programs to promote the optimum utility and the efficient use of the available land andother physical resources, infrastructure, and human resources; and pay high regard towards theunique landscape of the island.

c. Regulatory framework for all physical developments throughout the island to ensures the

sustainable use of the land, water, and other resources, natural eco-systems, cultural landscapesand traditions of the inhabitants.

1.5.2 Medium Term Goals (2025-30)

These goals can have a longer range and expected to be fully accomplished within the next ten-year period.

a. Spaces that facilitate the smooth transformation of the national economy from its orientation

in conventional agriculture, plantation and traditional industries, towards high-tech, knowledgeand innovation based industries and increased international trade.

The Boardobjective of thePolicy

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

b. Development initiatives that will promote the timely exploration of new opportunities and

untapped resources in land, ocean locations and in inhabitants.

c. Physical environments and supportive physical, social and economic infrastructure that will

increase the attraction of investments and trade.

1.5.3 Long Term Goals (2050)

These goals can be regarded as all-time goals whose validity remains from today to a period evenbeyond the horizons of this Plan.

a. Sustainable Use of land, water, ocean and other resources of the Island, preserving

agriculture, unique indigenous industries, cultural landscapes and the practices.

b. Responsiveness to the effects of climate change and natural hazards

c. Balanced development across the Island that will provide for equity, equal opportunities and

accessibility to resources for all.

1.6 Guiding Policies

In order to accomplish the above goals in the desired development scenarios, and based on the findingsof the background studies carried out on the existing and the foreseeable future situations, the followingguiding policies have been formulated and the National Physical Plan 2050 has been prepared based onthese policies.

1.6.1 Conservation of the ‘Critical’ and the ‘Unique’

As an economical means of providing necessary supportive systems demanded by future physicaldevelopments throughout the island, Sri Lanka can depend largely on its natural eco systems, waterresources and unique landscapes. Provision of alternative engineering solutions will add heavy costsfor such developments. Therefore, the strategic conservation and improvement of the existingenvironmental systems and physical settings is crucial for a physically as well as economically sustainabledevelopment.

At the same time, the upcoming and predicted effects of the climate change as well as the unforeseendisaster situations caused by human activities pose severe constraints for both economic and physicaldevelopment of Sri Lanka unless necessary precautionary measures will be adopted at the earliest.Some critical environments such as the coastal areas and the fragile central hills are highly sensitive inthis regard.

In yet another face, many of the unique and attractive landscapes of the island are the bases of theeconomy of such places and act as the icons of the culture and the traditions of the nation. They areincreasingly subject to degradation due to neglect, over exploitation and vandalizing. The protections ofthe essences of such settings are important for a sustainable economic and socio-cultural development.Thus, the mandatory conservation of the critical ecosystems, fragile areas and the unique landscapes areproposed as a guiding policy for the planning of future physical developments in Sri Lanka. Similarly,cultural landscapes too should be considered as a mandatory requirement for conservation.

The areas those need attention in this regard are given in Figure 1.1

General Policies

Areas forConservation

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

1.6.2 Promotion of the ‘Livability’ for Human

The long sustained development of a country can be expected only with a healthy nation, who enjoys ahigh quality of life associated with many indicators as set out by the United Nations. The quality of thephysical environment that promotes ‘livability’ is an important factor in this regard.

Figure 1.1:The Conservation Space (Areas need to be conserved due to sensitivity)

Areas appropriatefor humanhabitation

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

A livable physical environment can be achieved through several means, but the available geographic andweather conditions contribute towards most economic ways towards such. Out of many conditionsconducive for human habitats, the atmospheric temperature, humidity levels, rainfall and the lands freefrom natural disasters and wild animal attacks can be considered as the most critical. The convenientaccess to land and water along with readily available physical infrastructure such as roads, transportationfacilities, etc., and the social infrastructure such as schools and hospitals are also regarded as conditionsnecessary for livability.

The livable physical environment is also meant to include the cohabitation with the natural (Flora andFauna) which is included in consideration of cultural traits of the people.

Selection of the areas those encompass the above conditions of livability for future human settlementdevelopment is proposed as a policy for the planning of future physical developments in Sri Lanka.

The areas graded for suitability for human habitats is given in Figure 1.2

1.6.3 Exploration of the ‘Potentials’, ‘Opportunities’ and the ‘Enhancement’ of the Use

It is clear that, most of the potential resources in Sri Lanka have yet to be tapped for their full strength.One such resource is the ocean space declared as Exclusive Economic Zone that extends to more than250,000 square kilometers into Indian Ocean. Except for fishing and a few minerals the rest of theresources embodied in it remain intact. There are many other resources associated with the ocean spacesuch as the winds, ocean waves, likely petroleum and gas deposits, etc. those have not been adequatelyexplored yet. The inland locations which have high potentials to attract tourists need to be promoted ina planned manner. Other than the popularly visited locations a vast variety of spaces still remain littleknown to many.

Human Resource, specially the youth in the labour force, with various skills and education levels isanother resource that Sri Lanka shall consider for a sustainable development. According to demographers,if not put into effective use within the period that it yields ‘population dividend’ Sri Lanka will missanother opportunity to gain the competitive advantage that it possesses in the region. Future developmentsshall be supportive of such explorations.

The ever advancing technological innovations have to be incorporated to be in par with the internationalcompetitors.

In this context, in the planning of future physical developments, providing maximum opportunities forthe exploration and the enhancement of potentials and untapped resources is proposed as a policy.

The areas those can be of potential in this regard are given in Figure 1.3

1.6.4 Optimization of the Utility of the ‘Available’

According to the available information, owing to the debt servicing requirements and the immediateimprovements required in priority sectors within ten years, Sri Lanka will have to lead its futuredevelopment with many constraints. Heavy investments on large scale infrastructure may not be healthy,unless there are compelling reasons.

In addition to such constraints, the UN Sustainable Development Goals envisages the sustainable use ofinfrastructure and natural resources.

Areas withpotentials

Areas with bestutility of availableresources

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 1.2: The Livable Space (The areas with environments conducive for living)

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 1.3: The The Explorative Space (Areas those provide opportunities to explore andenhance)

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

In that context, the best use of the available resources and the existing physical and social infrastructure, rather thaninvesting on new infrastructure with an additional burden on the economy, and prioritization of the development needs,have become necessities.

However, future investments shall be directed more towards improving the quality of what is available by means of makingthem more productive, efficient and state of the art, rather than increasing the quantity, unless there is a real need for such.For that the emerging technology around the globe can be well embraced by Sri Lanka while adequate investments shall beallocated to promote innovations locally.

On these grounds, compulsory optimization of the utility of the available resources and the existing infrastructure in theplanning of future physical developments is proposed as a guiding policy in planning.

The areas graded for the provision of the best utility in this regard are given in Figure 1.4

10AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 1.4: The Optimized and Best Utilized Space (Areas with Development Potentials)

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2. The National Physical Plan 2050

2.1 The Spatial Structure

2.1.1 The Objective underlying the proposed spatial structure is to provide(the Government of) Sri

Lanka with a strategic development trajectory which will enable to achieve a well- planned andsustainably developed physical environment, pleasing and adored both by its citizens and theoutsiders alike. The trajectory is formulated adhering to the four guiding policies set out inSection 1.6, and with a view towards geographically and sectorally balanced development.

2.1.2. The proposed spatial structure is given in figure 2. The spatial structure presents themost

preferred scenario, among many other possibilities considered, to promote, regulate and tocoordinate future physical developments, executed by different state and private sectororganizations and individuals indistinct spatial entities over the three time horizons set out inthe Section 1.2 above.

The overall land use pattern in the island is expected to transform into the state shown in thefigure by 2050. The configuration is based on the findings of the detailed studies and in line withthe guiding policies indicated in Section 1.6.Therefore, the structure proposed herein, shall beviewed as a live image of a spatial process, evolving through the effectuation of the four guidingpolicies in responding to the emerging demands and needs of ongoing economic and socialdevelopments, rather than a static end-state, conventionally understood by a plan of this nature.

The spatial structure is combined with sector specific strategies, mentioned in the forthcomingsub-sections. Each strategy highlights strategic development interventions in specific spatialentities that would support the envisaged pattern of growth, making the best use of the existingpotentials, while demoting physical developments in locations where such developments areinappropriate due to sensitivity, safety and the need for conservation.

In the proposed scenario, a major share of physical developments is expected to be concentratedinto four ‘Development Corridors’, two ‘Metro Regions’ and nine ‘Main Cities’, which havebeen identified as the most strategic locations for key investments expecting to deliver accruedbenefits. The Central Fragile Area, the Coast Conservation.

Zone, and Agricultural, Eco and Forest Reserves which cover nearly a third of the land area,shall receive equal attention for conservation, and will be devoid of large scale physicaldevelopment interventions. In addition to those, it also proposes the locations, most appropriateand advantageous in terms of reaching the development goals of the Government of Sri Lanka,mentioned in Section 1.5 above, for major residential developments, industrial establishments,commercial and other urban land uses.

The Plan

12AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 2: The Proposed Spatial Structure - 2050

Concentrated Urban Development AreaRural Settlement

Coastal Enviromental Sensitive AreaArea Above 1500mConservation Areas

Central Environmnetal Sensitive AreaWaterbodies

Provincial Boundary

Proposed Elecrified RailwayProposed Railway

Existing RailwayExpressway(Upto 2030Expressway(To be considered after 2030HighwaysPriority Highway

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.1.3. The ‘Central Fragile Area’ shown in the figure 3, is the geographic entity that consists of the

lands with sensitive natural ecosystems, highly vulnerable to landslides and play a crucial rolein sustaining water resources. A major portion of these areas are located above 300 metersfrom mean sea level and cover the upper catchments of all major rivers of the island. The identifiedareas fall within the current administrative districts of Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, Kegalle (all areas)and Matale, Ratnapura, Monaragala, Galle, Matara, Kalutara and Colombo (identified DSDivisions). The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions is given in the annexure 01.

The physical developments in these lands shall be guided with stringent regulations andcomprehensive guidelines, enforced and monitored by the agencies responsible for thedevelopment and conservation of these areas. The National Building Research Organization(NBRO) has already declared this area under the title ‘Landslide Prone’ districts, and guidelinesare being developed for the construction activities carried out in this area. This will partiallysupport the conservation of geological profiles, hydro systems and the development density.

Since a major portion of the physical developments are associated with increasing urbanizationtrends, ‘planned urban development’ is not an option, but a necessity for all localities in thisarea. This is possible through the integrated Urban Development Plans prepared and implementedfor all existing and emerging urban areas, declared under the provisions of the UrbanDevelopment Authority Law of 1978.

The conservation of critical land resources in these zones shall also be supported by adepopulation strategy. A larger share from the next generations (2020-2050) of the populationsof these areas shall be attracted into the proposed economic development zones by means ofmore attractive employment opportunities, affordable housing and more beneficial and vibrantliving environments.

In addition to the conservation of lands a well-organized and coordinated tree planting/re-foresting program is essential for a long term conservation of the water resources in the area.The implementation of the REDD+Sri Lanka National REDD+ Investment Framework and ActionPlan (2017) will provide adequate support for this purpose.

2.1.4 The ‘Coast Conservation Zone’, shown in figure 4, includes the area for which boundaries

have been delineated by the Coast Conservation Department under the provisions of the CoastConservation Act No. 57 of 1981. Even though a large quantum of physical developments ofSri Lanka has been taking place in this zone, conservation of the lagoons, estuaries, swamps,riverine environments and other sensitive environments is important because of the eco servicesthat they provide, the attractions they have and the economic activities associated with them.The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions which encompasses these areas are given in theannexure 02.

The Coast Conservation Department is adequately equipped with powers to carryout conservationfunctions in these areas, and a national level Coast Conservation Plan is already being developed.In addition to that the Geological Surveys and Mines Bureau

The Central FragileArea

The CoastConservation Zone

14AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 3: Central Environmental Fragile Area

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 4: Coastal Conservation Zone

16AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

The AgroConservationZone

/The WaterConservationZones

The ForestConservationZone

The DevelopmentCorridors

plays a role in controlling mining activities and the Central Environmental Authority isempowered to regulate activities that impact the costal environmental systems, while integratedurban development plans will support to have least destructive physical developments for tourism,fisheries, recreation and port related activities. However, the existing enactments by the CoastConservation Department, Central Environmental Authority and the Urban DevelopmentAuthority shall be strictly enforced in these areas.

2.1.5. An ‘Agro Conservation Zone’, shown in figure 5, is the geographic entity with lands that are

predominantly used for agricultural purposes, as defined by the Agrarian Services Act No. 58 of1979 and Rubber, Coconut and any other type of Plantations which are situated away from themain urban concentrations proposed in this report.

The most important DSD division in terms of % of total land extent of different agriculturalcrops are shown in annexure 03. In addition, the list of enactments related to the agro conservationzone is depicted in annexure 04.

2.1.6. The ‘Water Conservation Zones’ shown in figure 6, include the areas those can have an impact

on the long existing water cascading system, which includes Large tanks, supplementary tanks,sedimentation tanks and small scale village tanks along with their watersheds and the feedingcanals, located mainly within the dry zone of the island. Even though almost all areas have thesewater systems, the administrative districts given in annexure 05 are of critical importance withthis regard. The list of enactments related to the Water Conservation Zone are shown annexure06

The physical developments associated with these water bodies and their water catchment areasshall be strictly regulated by the respective Divisional Secretaries, in coordination with therelevant Local Authorities.

2.1.7. The ‘Eco Conservation Zone’ given in figure 7, is an entity with wetlands, catchments of

irrigation tanks, streams and reservoirs, and the sanctuaries declared by the Wildlife ConservationDepartment, under the provisions of the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance, No 2 of 1937,and subsequent amendments. A ‘Forest Conservation Zone’ includes any area declared as areserved forest by the Forest Conservation Department, under the provisions of the ForestOrdinance No 16 of 1907 and its amendments. The Available Laws and Policies related to theEco Conservation Zone are shown annexure 07

2.1.8. A ’Development Corridor’ is a contiguous linear geographic entity, which connects a series

of major and minor agglomerations of economic activities, a variety of secondary and tertiarysector industrial developments that mutually support the sustenance of each other throughforward and backward links, clusters of urban facilities that support a relatively largeconcentrations of people who live, work and patronize the facilities within, and benefited byinterconnected networks of physical, economic and social infrastructure.

17AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 5: Agro Conservation Zone

18AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 6: Water Conservation Zone

19AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 7: Eco Conservation Zone/ Forest Conservation Zones

20AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

The Development Corridors given in figure 8 are expected to make the largest contribution tothe National Economy, mainly by means of value addition to both local commodities as well asimport-export based global supply chains, capitalizing upon the three international ports inColombo, Trincomalee and Hambanthota and the small ports in Oluwil and Jaffna, internationalairports in Katunayake, Mattala and Hingurakgoda (to be developed), the expressways andimproved high speed railway links. They thus, shall be the main sources to attract investmentsand to provide employment opportunities.

Out of the total population in Sri Lanka in 2050, at least sixty percent (60%) is expected to beconcentrated within these Development Corridors, identified within the proposed spatialstructure. Such concentration is mandatory to meet the thresholds of viability for the investmentson specific infrastructure and high-end urban facilities and to have the critical mass requiredfor their sustainability.

2.1.9 The East-West Development Corridor, is proposed between the Colombo and Tricomalee

districts. In order to capitalize upon the advantages of the two major ports in Colombo andTrincomalee, the transport infrastructure and the favorable living conditions, a reasonablyhigher share of the future population (approximately 35-40%) of Sri Lanka shall be settled inlands that fall within the proposed East-West Development Corridor. The spatial extent of thiscorridor is defined approximately as the area within the first 10 kilometers (highestconcentration), and 10-20 kilometers (medium concentration) and 20-30 kilometers (moderateconcentration) from the proposed expressways and highways.

In this Development Corridor, the Colombo Metro region, which is the conurbation of severalurban areas around Colombo, will be the largest concentration of settlements and expected tobe home for around three and a half million (3,500,000) residents. The other majorconcentrations are proposed in five Metro Regions centering Negombo (600,000), Gampaha(700,000) Kurunegala (1,000,000), Dambulla (500,000) and Trincomalee (1,000,000), alongwith a series of ‘Cities’ in Beruwala, Kalutara-Matugama, Panadura- Horana, Mirigama-Warakapola, Polgahawela, Alawwa, Ibbagamuwa, Galewela and Kantale., whose residentpopulations may vary between 100,000-200,000 and ‘Small Towns’ which will have relativelysmaller concentrations (Table 02).

The area earmarked for this Corridor is constituted of 71 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table01) and 12.3% (8069 km2) of the total land extent of the country.

2.1.10 The Northern Development Corridor, is expected to accommodate a residential population

of more than a million (1,200,000). The low population growth rate experienced by this regioncan be increased to a moderate annual average growth rate of 1.2 percent to result in this numberby 2050 (Table 02).

Jaffna Metro Region and Kilinochchi are expected to be the epi-centers of the agglomerationof this corridor. With the available restrictive environmental conditions and the possibility ofproviding infrastructure, Kilinochchi is expected to have a higher growth than the other areas inthis corridor. This Corridor consists with 15 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and2.9% (1925 km2) of the total land extent of the country.

The East-WestDevelopmentCorridor

The NorthernDevelopmentCorridor

21AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 8: Proposed Urban Agglomeration Pattern - 2050

22AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

The SouthernDevelopmentCorridor

The EasternDevelopmentCorridor

Kandy MetroRegion

AnuradhapuraMetro Region

2.1.11. The Southern Development Corridor, with the prevailing annual average rate of growth of

1.0 percent is expected to reach a residential population of more than one and a half million(1,700,000) (Table 02).

The corridor will be developed centering on the Metro Regions at Galle, Matara and Hambantota,Main Cities at Tangalle, Embilipitiya and Tissmaharama, and ‘Small Towns’ which will haverelatively smaller populations. The existing rate of growth shall continue to reach the numbersby 2050.

The Southern Corridor consists with 32 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and 3.4%(2221 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).

2.1.12 The Eastern Development Corridor, is expected to have a residential population of more

than one million (1,200,000), which can be achieved with a little increase of its present rate ofgrowth to 1.0 percent (Table 02).

Batticaloa is proposed to be developed as a Metro Region with a population of 300,000, andValachahenai, Kalmunei, Ampara, and Akkareipattu are proposed to be the Cities with populationsvarying between 250,000 to 100,000, along with a set of ‘Small Towns’ which will have relativelysmaller concentrations. This included 29 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and 4.6%(3021 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).

2.1.13. A ‘Metro Region’ is a geographic entity with a relatively larger agglomeration of economic

activities, secondary and tertiary sector employment and a population around an urban area,characterized either by a single node or several nodes of urban facilities. Within this policy, a‘Metro Region’ shall be an indication of an area with a minimum population of 500,000, and anet residential population density between 1000 - 5,000 persons per square kilometer.

Kandy Metro Region is proposed to facilitate a population of ten hundred thousand(1,000,000) (Table 02).The area identified for proposed Metro Region in Kandy presentlyaccommodates a population of 680,000, but this is likely to grow beyond the expected number,if additional measures will not be taken to attract its future populations in to other areas.

The Kandy Metro Region consists with 8 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table 01) and 0.7%(430 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).

Anuradhapura Metro Region is expected to facilitate a population of five hundred thousand(500,000) within the respective areas of its direct influence. The present population in thearea identified for Anuradhapura Metro Region is 311,000, which is expected to grow at anincreased annual average growth rate of 1.6% to achieve the targeted numbers (Table 02).

The Anuradhapura Metro Region consists with 8 Divisional Secretary Divisions (Table1) and 2.5% (1670 km2) of the total land extent of the country (Table 02).

2.1.14A ‘Main City’ is a relatively larger concentration of economic activities, urban facilities and

residential population, and serves as the higher order service Centre to a reasonably largerland area. Within this policy, a ‘Main City’ shall be defined as an area with a minimum populationof 100,000, and a net residential population density between 100 - 500 persons per squarekilometer.

Main Cities

23AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

The following locations are proposed to be developed as independent medium scale urbanfacility locations with populations varying between one and two hundred thousand (100,000-200,000) (Table 02):

1. Mannar,2. Mulaitivu,3. Vauniya,4. Puttalam,5. Polonnaruwa,6. NuwaraEliya,7. Ratnapura,8. Mahiyanganaya9. Wellawaya,

These ‘Main Cities’,shown in figure 8, are expected to containa larger share of the futureurban growth excluded from the Development Corridors and the two Metro Regions, whichotherwise will be scattered all over the island within the next 20 years. They shall collectivelyaccommodate up to 2.6-2.7 million residents within their areas of influence. However, out ofthem Nuwara Eliya and Ratnapura may need to divert their excess populations into elsewherein future due to their fragile environmental conditions.

2.1.15 Tertiary Agglomerations of around two hundred medium and small scale towns in both

designated and non-designated urban areas, are expected to have less than 50,000 people ineach of them, and to support the basic needs of settlements scattered in the rest of the island.

2.1.16 The Implementation of the spatial structure shall be assured by the following actions taken

by the relevant agencies:

a. Investment on strategic projects that will generate more attractive employment and

business opportunities (mainly in the manufacturing and service sector) for the nextgeneration entering the labor force, at locations proposed by this plan.b. Increasing the availability of land/houses and urban infrastructure (especially water supply

and public transportation) at affordable prices at locations identified for residentialdevelopments within the proposed urban agglomerations.c. Providing high performing social infrastructure (especially primary and secondary

schools, high quality health services and recreation facilities) associated with the mainurban areas proposed in this plan.

2.2 The Urban Development strategy

2.2.1 The Objective

The urban development strategy is to regulate and promote the urban areas with comprehensivedevelopment guidelines. The urban development plans prepared by the Urban DevelopmentAuthority and other development agencies shall strictly take the following aspects in toconsideration.

2.2.1.1 Attractive and Livable Conditions

The conditions within the urban areas must be conducive for living, working andentertainment. The tropical climate conditions prevailing within most of the urban areasshall be handled with adequate sensitivity. Positive characteristics such as the bright daylight, constant temperature and humidity conditions, etc, as well as the harsh sunny andheavy rainy weather conditions shall be responded with appropriate measures of planningand urban design in order to provide appealing and livable atmosphere.

Small Towns

Integrated UrbanDevelopment

24AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.2.1.2 Safe and Secure Localities

The safety from external forces such as the floods, landslides, sea erosion as well asinternal issues such as the frequent road accidents, public nuisance, wide spreadingepidemics, etc, shall be addressed at the planning of urban areas. Safe environments alsoinclude special attention paid to children, disabled and senior citizens. Security fromtheft, burglary, crimes and terrorist attacks shall be provided through both physical andnon-physical measures.

2.2.1.3 Smart and Convenient Facilities

The ease of access to various information related to day to day operations, reliability ofpublic services provided by various institutions, and the convenience of using urbanfacilities makes an urban area ‘smart’. The advancements in information technology mayassist to provide fast and reliable information through smart devices, but the deliverydepends largely upon the persons and the systems in place. Even though a majorcontribution for such systems shall be non-physical, the physical environments shall beplanned and designed to enable the commendable use of such systems, when providedwith the required versatility.

2.2.1.4 Green and Sustainable Environments

The selection of the most appropriate lands, safe and reliable construction methods,saving of water both in construction and in operations, effective use of renewable energy,use of appropriate materials in optimum quantities, response to thermal conditions, useof efficient devices, etc, shall be made compulsory for all constructions in order toassure environmentally sustainable and ‘Green’ developments.

2.2.2 Improved Public Transport modes that assures efficient, affordable and reliable service

shall be identified as a key factor for the improvement of livability in urban areas. Therefore,strategic investment program in reorganizing mode-integration and systematizing the operationsalong with the state-of the-art passenger services for the improvement of public transportationthroughout the island with a special emphasis on the urban agglomerations proposed in section2.1 shall be implemented by 2025.

Since the residential populations within most of the Metro Regions and Cities, except ColomboMetro Region, will not exceed a million, heavy investments on high tech transportation solutionsfor local passenger transportation may not be economically viable. In most of the urban areas,local passenger transportation needs can be best catered by improving the existing bus servicesuntil 2030. However, the operations need to be heavily regulated, buses and the waiting facilitiesmust provide the required comfort, and smart services such as e-ticketing and informationdisplay need to be provided to make the services more efficient, cost effective and attractiveto passengers.

In the proposed Development Corridors, the railway shall be given priority because it is themost economically viable and environmentally sustainable inter-city mode for both passengerand goods transportation.

2.2.3 High Quality Utilities shall be provided in order to boost urban development, strategic

investments. To this end the augmentation of the existing water supply projects, improvementof drainage, introduction of underground sewer, enhancement of the electricity network, andthe introduction of fire services, shall be provided as priorities within the period 2020-2030for the areas identified for the development of Metro Regions and Cities of the Developmentcorridors, the two independent Metro Regions and the Nine Main Cities, on priority basis.

Priority on PublicTransport

Physical Qualityof Life

25AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Throughout the proposed Development Corridors, improved inter-connected water supply, gasand electricity distribution networks, fed by multiple sources located at different points, shallbe implemented in order to maintain an uninterrupted, consistent and regulated supply for allactivities within them.

2.2.4 Augmented Social Infrastructure is essential in order to enhance the attraction of the future

generations of the population to those selected urban areas for residential and employmentpurposes the provision of high quality education, health, communication and recreation facilitiesis proposed.

It is observed that almost all areas, identified to be promoted as Metro Regions and MainCities, already have adequate education and health facilities. The immediate requirement is toinvest on the improvement of the quality and the capacities of the existing facilities, rather thanthe establishment of new facilities. Yet, in some urban areas, the schools and hospitals locatedwithin core areas shall be relocated to alternative locations within close proximities, in orderto avoid issues related to crowding, traffic congestion, user safety, etc., with adequateconsiderations on the appropriateness of their existing locations for such facilities.

2.2.5 Improved Pedestrian Spaces shall be given priority in all urban development programs to

make the urban areas more attractive. Strategic interventions such as the improvement andregulation of their pedestrian environments shall be proposed in all development plans. Walkingcan be regarded as the best solution for most of the issues presently apparent in Sri Lankanurban areas such as traffic congestion, unauthorized parking, accidents, etc. As a priority measure,pedestrian friendliness shall be considered as the main objective of future urban plans, insteadof the present dominance given to vehicular movement. The pedestrian areas shall be suitablefor the tropical weather conditions available and appropriate designs shall be devised accordingly.

2.2.6 Increased and Improved Recreation Facilities at the local level, shall be provided to cater

the increasing rate of urbanizing lifestyles of the inhabitants. This is a necessity for a healthynation and to reduce heavy costs on providing health services.

The general standard is to have one hectare of open space for 1000 persons, which is hardlymet in present urban development schemes. Nevertheless, provision of large extents of landsfor open spaces for public recreation facilities is a challenge amidst the scarcity of land andthe pressure for developments in urban areas. Yet, innovative approaches such as the opening ofcanal reservations, river banks, marshy areas and beach fronts along with reasonable facilitiesand maintenance of them will enable to overcome the difficulties in providing public openspaces. Parallel to that providing wider road spaces at neighborhood levels to be used asmakeshift children play areas and gathering spaces will work as an alternative way of providingpublic open spaces and also to strengthen ‘neighborhood’ or ‘lane’ communities.

2.2.7 More Space for Physical Developments shall be made available in order to support the intense

developments in selected urban areas by means of more appropriate Floor Area Ratios (FAR),higher densities and mix developments, yet, regulated within comprehensive development guideplan required instead of the currently adopted activity based zoning, The Development Plansprepared by the Urban Development Authority for the identified Urban Areas of the saidDevelopment Corridors, Metro Regions and the Main Cities, shall consider appropriate methodsbased in densities and the floor area ratios demanded by the economic activities appropriateurban forms, environmental learning capacities, infrastructure availability and the populationsenvisaged in those locations.

Social Quality ofLife

Walkable Cities

RecreationFacilities for all

Intense andCompact Cities

26AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.2.8 A wider Choice of Employment Opportunities shall be provided as a measure to generate

increased number of direct and indirect employment opportunities in such locations providinglands and other infrastructure required for appropriate type of industries.

2.2.9 Smart Facilities is a requirement for the improved connectivity of people and locations both

locally and internationally in all urban areas. To this end high quality communicationinfrastructure is a requirement. The ongoing concept of Smart Cities is a progressive initiativein this regard. Owing to the rapid advancements in information technology and digitalinfrastructure, in near future the relative costs of providing smart facilities will be justifiablein the light of benefits such as the convenient access to information, automated pubic services,more transparency in governance, etc., that they can provide.

In that context, fully fledged smart environments are proposed to be established along all foureconomic corridors, metro regions and the main cities during the period 2020-2025. This canbe extended into other areas thereafter.

2.2.10 Green Built Environments shall be the theme of all physical developments. In order to

ensure environmentally sustainable development within urban areas, the green building practicesare proposed to be made essential for all physical developments, including buildings, roads,recreation facilities, etc. by 2020.

As general policies the following are proposed to be adopted as strategic projects in the planningand implementation of all urban developments:

1. Establishment of urban scale collective rain water harvesting facilities such as open

ponds, underground reservoirs, etc at identified strategic locations, implemented by theNational Water Supply and Drainage Board in coordination with Urban DevelopmentAuthority and the Local Authorities.

2. Solar fields installed in the appropriately built roof tops in selected localities,

implemented by the Sustainable Energy Authority and the Ceylon Electricity Board.

3. Community based waste management initiative that includes source management, sorting,

collection and recycling in all condominium and neighborhood developments,implemented by the Provincial Waste Management Authorities, in coordination with theLocal Authorities.

4. Minimum un-built open area requirement and space for green cover strictly regulated

and maintained within urban areas as specified in respective urban development plans.

5. The Green Building certification process implemented by the Urban Development

Authority be extended to all categories of developments to facilitate this initiative.

6. An island wide programme to shade main streets and major public spaces of all urban

areas with trees of endemic species, implemented by the Urban Development Authority.

7. Strict implementation of Green Procurement guidelines for all projects, purchase of

equipment and devices involved in urban development activities.

WiderOpportunities

Smart Cities

Green Cities

27AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.3 Transportation Development

2.3.1 The Objective

This is to act as a complimentary element to the National Transport Policy which was approvedby the Cabinet of Ministers in 2009 and the same is being updated by the Ministry of Transportand Civil Aviation, the following objectives are proposed by the this plan:

2.3.1.1 Pro-active approaches

Connectivity, accessibility and mobility are among key factors that influence the proposedland use and the settlement distribution pattern. Therefore, transportation planning shouldwork hand in hand with land use planning, in order to expect a healthy land uses as well assustainable transportation infrastructure development. Sustainable transportation planningwhich is based on the three pillars, namely: to avoid, to shift and to improve, shall adoptpro-active policy approaches that support not only to turn future land use and the settlementdistribution in desired direction, but also support to encourage modal shift from privateto public and to improve efficiency and reliability, rather than mere responses to thepresent demand trends, and ineffective investment on transportation infrastructure.

2.3.1.2 Optimization of the available infrastructure

Both passenger and goods transportation modes and the related infrastructure involvesheavy investments, which under the current economic conditions will add to debt burdenon Sri Lanka’s economy for next twenty to thirty years, and therefore, optimization ofthe utility of the available transport infrastructure with minimum additions, is the mostviable option to provide transport infrastructure.

2.3.1.3 Investment on economically feasible projects

With the fast evolving technology and the changing lifestyles of the people, the travelbehavior as well as the modes of passenger and goods transportation are likely to changewithin the period envisaged in this plan, and therefore, in a transforming situation allinvestments bear some levels of risks of not providing the best utility and not yieldingthe expected benefits. Therefore, investment decisions for transportation developmentsneed to follow comprehensive feasibility studies before they are turned into projects.

2.3.1.4 Selection of environmentally sustainable modes

Transportation sector is identified as one of the major contributors to Greenhouse Gasemissions in Sri Lanka. In order to comply with the permitted emission levels and for asustainable conservation of the environment the minimization of the use of privatevehicles and the promotion of the public transportation shall be the policy in futuredevelopments. Out of the available modes rail transportation shall be the first in the priorityorder.

2.3.1.5 Introduction of modern technology for efficiency and comfort

Even though economic viability is a concern, the safety and reliability are important inall modes of transportation. Therefore, the introduction of the state-of-the art technologyavailable to improve the efficiency, such as the automation of vehicles, electronicticketing, inter-modal integration, etc., and the user comfort shall not be compromised atany cost in the development of both passenger and goods transportation.

2.3.1.6 Equality and Equity in investments

There shall be equal consideration on the inter-regional connectivity as wellas the first and last-mile connectivity. Heavy investments on large scale infrastructure at inter-regional level transportation infrastructure, with no due regard for local and city level

TransportationDevelopmentStrategy

28AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

transportation development will not bring in the required benefits to the nation. At the sametime, due consideration shall be there for the order of priority: The Pedestrian, The Cyclistand the Motor Vehicles. It is unfortunate to note that the current road development projectspay less attention to the pedestrian and the cyclist, despite the emphasis given in thetransportation policy.

2.3.2 Rail Transportation

Out of the all transportation modes available, the rail transportation was studied to be the mosteconomical for inter-regional goods and passenger transportation as well as for urban masstransportation. Most of the areas identified for future urban agglomerations are alreadyaccomplished with railway connections and the related facilities. Therefore, in the four UrbanCorridors, railways are expected to be the most attractive among all modes in future. In orderto meet such expectation, a remarkable improvement in the available rail network is essential.

The electrification of the rail between Aluthgama and Veyangoda, and Colombo and Negomboby 2025, are already proposed by the current Railway Improvement Master Plan. These projectswill complement the proposed East-West Development Corridor. In order to move further,this electrified railway is proposed to be extended up to Kurunegala before 2030. The currentRailway Improvement Master Plan also proposes a rail link between Kurunegala and Habarana,via Dambulla. This proposal is highly commendable in the light of the proposed corridordevelopment scenario. This length, along with the available rail link from Habarana toTrincomalee shall be improved by 2030 with an electrified, high speed train service to enhancethe connectivity among locations within the proposed East-West Development corridor.

In order to facilitate the developments in the Southern Development Corridor the existing railservices from Aluthgama to Matara need to be improved. As per the available proposal thisservice can be extended from Matara to Hambantota by 2030.

In the Northern Urban Corridor rail services shall be intensified between Kilinochchi andKankasanthurei by 2025. If the said new connection between Kurunegala and Habarana can besupplemented with an additional connection between Habarana and Anuradhapura the existingconnection with Polgahawela via Mahawa will be sufficient to cater to the demand until 2030and thereafter.

In the Eastern Corridor, rail services between Valachchenai and Baticalloa need to be improved,while the existing connection with Habarana will be able to meet travel demands until2030. In order to improve connectivity within this corridor, an extension of the same line up toAmpara via Kalmunei is proposed to be established by 2025.

The other sections of the available network and the services in them shall also be improved inorder to facilitate inter-regional transportation needs. In addition to the available network,new railways are proposed: between Kurunegala and Kandy (by 2025), between Hambantotaand Polonnaruwa, via Wellawaya and Mahiyangana (by 2030), with a possible link to existingline at Badulla; between Colombo and Hambantota via Rathnapura and Embilipitiya (by 2030);between Ampara and Wellawaya (after 2030). However, the electrification of these lines maynot be an immediate requirement, owing to the heavy investments involved and the level ofservices expected out of them. ‘

In addition to the above developments, an augmentation of the available railway infrastructure,such as the additional lines to the existing lengths and improvements to the existing lines areessential to improve the efficiency of the railway transportation. A few projects are alreadyunder the consideration by the Department of Railways, which includes adding lines betweenColombo and Ragama, Colombo and Homagama, Colombo and Moratuwa, etc.

RailTransportation

29AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Another area that needs immediate attention of the authorities is the improvements to thepassenger services. This includes the modernization of the facilities in railway stations withcomfortable facilities, better waiting areas, smart environments in them, etc, while, themodernization of the services in for commuters such as e-ticketing, on-line reservation,personalized services, train tracking possibilities, etc. Such improvements, along with theimproved efficiency of the services, are likely to make a dramatic shift of passengers fromroad based modes to railway.

2.3.3 Road Infrastructure

It is observed that the public road length maintained by the Government, both at Central andProvincial level exceed 30,000 kilometers. In terms of road density Sri Lanka is at a reasonablyhigher position compared to other nations in the region. Yet, the necessary improvements andtimely maintenance of these roads, specially the provincial roads, has not been at a satisfactorylevel. In spite of the facts that road transportation serves for more than 90% of the transportationdemand, and it is the most convenient and most flexible option specially for the first and thelast mile connections, maintenance of the increasing extents of road infrastructure hasthroughout been a costly affair to the economy. Under such circumstance, prioritization of theroad infrastructure developments and the optimization of the utility of the available infrastructureare essential for an economical and sustainable road transportation strategy.

Expressways are relatively more expensive developments, but can facilitate fast communicationbetween locations. The Southern Expressway, Colombo–Katunayake Expressway, Outer CircularHighway, and the ongoing projects those connect Matara to Hambantota, and Colombo toDambulla via Kurunegala will facilitate the connectivity and the speedy movements betweenthe locations within the proposed Development Corridors.

The movement patterns and the projections expected within the future urban development,settlement distribution, industrial locations, tourism promotion and the other relateddevelopments, scenarios proposed in this Plan, indicates that the already available set ofexpressways and the currently implemented expressway projects, namely the Colombo-Hambantota and the Colombo-Dambulla and the last phase of the Colombo Outer CircularHighway, will be adequate to meet the large scale road infrastructure requirements until 2030.The need for further extensions to the expressways shall be assessed based on the demandpatterns likely to arise after 2030. Instead, rapid improvements to railway services, as indicatedin the previous section, along with highly integrated, connected and improved local bus services,and the upgrading of the existing inter-regional highway facilities will be able to adequatelyserve for travel demands and goods transportation until 2030, and in turn to support the proposedphysical development pattern.

However, in order to improve inter-regional connectivity and to facilitate speedy access, theexisting highways that connect the proposed metro regions and the main cities shall be improvedand maintained on priority basis. The identified ‘priority highways’ are Hambantota-Wellawaya-Batticaloa (A2), Negombo-Puttalam (A3), Dambulla- Trincomalee (A6), Dambulla-Jaffna (A9),Kandy–Puttalam (A10), Habarana – Polonnaruwa- Batticaloa (A11), Trincomalee-Puttalam(A12), Medawachchiya-Mannar (A14) and Mankulam- Mullaitivu (A34). In these connections(and the other highways) a main problem frequently noted is the bottle-necks formed in theurban areas that they run through. The ribbon developments taking place along the highway, thatbecomes the ‘Main Street’ at the locations of these urban areas, often result in congestion andslowdown in main flows. This problem cannot be addressed only through road development ortraffic engineering, but has to be addressed through comprehensive integrated urban developmentplans and pro-active urban development strategies implemented at the local level.

RoadsDevelopment

30AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

At the Provincial and Local levels, the upgrading, timely maintenance and the optimum use ofavailable road spaces rather than the construction of new roads, except for compelling reasons,shall be policy for road development.

2.3.4 Aviation

The National Civil Aviation Policy for Sri Lanka (2016) highlights ‘the future direction andpositioning of Sri Lanka as a leading aviation and transport hub in the South Asian Region,transforming the country into a superior air service provider while connecting to the widerworld aviation network. It also identifies that timely modernizing Air Traffic Management(ATM) and upgrading and expansion of Airport Infrastructure are critical to cater for growth intraffic and to ensure efficient use of airspace and airports.

With the increasing affluence of the Sri Lankan society, improved business environment andthe development of tourism industry, there will be an upward demand for airport and aviationfacilities. It is already predicted that with the increasing air traffic and passenger volumes, thecarrying capacity of the existing Bandaranayake International Airport (BIA) at Katunayake willreach maximum within a short period. Therefore, plans are already underway for the expansionof landing facilities, passenger terminals and cargo handling facilities. In order to internalizethe positive impacts of the increased use of the BIA, the area surrounding Katunayake airportis proposed to be developed with all facilities required for a modern Aero-City. This may bethe catalyst for the proposed Negombo – Katunayake Metro Region within the East-WestDevelopment Corridor.

In addition, the Mahinda Rajapakshe International Airport (MRIA) at Mattala is a facility thatcannot be neglected because of the heavy investments made on it, and the potential that it gainsowing to the strategic location that Sri Lanka is positioned within the international air trafficroutes. In order to get any benefit and to avoid deterioration it needs to start operations at theearliest.

These two airports will be able to support the international travel requirements in near future.Yet, if the prevalent business development trends continue more air travel demand can beexpected within next ten years and a need for a third international airport will arise. In suchcontext, complying with the envisaged pattern of the physical developments, and optimizingthe available resources, out of all options available, Hingurakgoda air strip will be the bestcandidate to get the upgrading to an international airport. Since it is located within a closeproximity to the main infrastructure proposed within the main East-West Development Corridor,Hingurakgoda airport will be able to serve all needy areas with appropriate connections.

The National Civil Aviation Policy identifies that the development of aerodromes in underservedor remote regions brings job creation, economic activity, greater connectivity and socialintegration to national economy. Accordingly, parallel to the development of BIA and the MRIA,the demand for domestic air travel too can be expected to increase. In order to cater to thedemand, the existing domestic airports at Ratmalana, Ampara, Trincomalee, Puttalam, Palaliand Anuradhapura are proposed to be developed with necessary passenger and cargo handlingfacilities. However, these developments need to follow comprehensive travel demand analysesand feasibility studies. The proposed infrastructure configurations - 2050 are shown in Figure9.

Aviation

31AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.4 Physical Infrastructure Provision

2.4.1 Objective

The utilities and services are critical for a planned development of human settlements,comfortable living and efficient functioning of economic activities. The physical infrastructuresuch as the pipe borne water supply, storm water drainage networks, public sewer, liquid andsolid waste collection and disposal systems, etc., required to provide such utilities are therefore,plays a major role in realization of the envisaged pattern of development. With that in view, thefollowing objectives are set forth in support of the proposed spatial and settlement strategies.

2.4.1.1 Convenience to the Users and Service Providers

The level of accessibility to the user to the utilities as well as the ability to reach them bythe service provider are critical in successful provision of respective services. Thesettlement pattern makes a direct implication with this regard.

2.4.1.2 Strategic and Viable Investments

It is observed that electricity supply and road infrastructure have reached more than 95%of the populations of the island. The consistency in supply, operations and regularmaintenance, augmentation of facilities are the main issues associated with them.Currently, the water supply and drainage services are fast improving in many areas. It isalso noted that the new installations and augmentations of the existing infrastructureinvolves heavy costs and therefore, in order to best utilize the available finances, strategicprojects those will bring in the best outcomes need to be identified for investments.

2.4.1.3 Optimum Utility and Environmental Sustainability

In the provision of the utilities, the service providers shall assess the priorities in termsof the threshold demands by the populations and other activities to sustain the project.

At the same time, the utilities can be a tool to guide developments into desirabledirections. The environmentally sensitive areas and reserves can be best protected throughnon-provision of utilities.

PhysicalInfrastructre

32AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Figure 9: Proposed Infrastructure Configuration - 2050

33AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.4.2 Water Supply and Drainage:

The water is a critical commodity for three purposes: the domestic and industrial uses, agricultureand irrigation, and sustainability of natural ecosystems.

The domestic and industrial demands in urban areas are presently catered by the National WaterSupply and Drainage Board. A number of water supply and drainage projects are already beingimplemented by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board aiming to cater to targets of2020 horizon, but most of them are at the local and regional scale. In addition to them, aNational Level Water Resource Management project is essential to provide safe, sufficientand sustainable water supply for future physical developments. In such a project the followingfeatures shall be integrated:

As stated earlier, in order to assure optimum utility and the appropriate use of resources, aswell as to support the proposed settlement pattern, the best option would be the networks ofinterconnected water supply schemes in the proposed Development Corridors. Such networkingfacility will support a long range service through a trans-basin diversion of water into the demandareas and thereby overcome the supply issues emerging from source inadequacy, source tappingdifficulties and the seasonal fluctuations of flows at the sources. Even though reduction inrainfall is predicted, it is observed that the prudent management of the available water resourcesin the rivers will enable to meet the demands projected up to 2030 (and beyond) in the givendevelopment scenario with a few alternative sources.

Out of the main water sources available, Mahaweli River, Kalu Ganga River and Kelani Riverwill be able to provide the quantity of water that is required to meet the demand generatingfrom the main Development Corridor between Colombo and Trincomalee until 2030, with thesupport of an inter-connected trans-basin service network as proposed above. The demandemerging from the Southern Corridor needs to be catered to with the water available in GinGanaga and Nilwala Ganga Rivers in a similar trans-basin networked service.

However, new sources will have to be explored for the Northern and the Eastern urban corridorsas the rivers in those areas may have scarcities to provide water to meet demands throughout.The proposed ‘River for Jaffna’, (Arumugam Proposal, 1965) which is under consideration bythe Government of Sri Lanka, has high potential to provide the Northern Development Corridorto flourish with innumerable benefits as well as to support agro based developments in theNorth.

The water for agricultural purposes are managed by the Irrigation Department. It is recordedthat the lands cultivated with water from major and minor irrigation schemes are over onemillion hectares, and out of the total food production of Sri Lanka, more than sixty-five (65%)is from these lands. In order to ensure food security, preservation of the traditional agricultureand to conserve the ecosystems associated with them, the said National Water ResourceManagement project shall include measures towards demand management and guiding theoptimum use of water for irrigation and other agriculture related activities.

The sewerage disposal needs will have to be addressed on local basis. As per the numbers,projected in the proposed settlement distribution strategy given in Section 5.2, new undergroundsewers with other ancillary installations will be necessary by 2030 for main agglomerations inareas such as Sri Jayawardanepura, Kaduwela, Peliyagoda, Wattala, Kolonnawa, Maharagama,within Colombo Metro Region, and the identified core areas of Negombo, Ragama, Gampaha,Mirigama, Kurunegala, Dambulla, Trincomalee, Kinniya, Muttur, Galle, Hikkaduwa, Matara,Jaffna, Batticaloa, Kalmunei, Kandy,

Water Supply andDrainage

34AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Anuradhapura and Nuwara Eliya. Depending upon the future development pattern beyond 2030,further installations can be considered in Hambantota, Ampara, Puttalama, Mannar, Kilinochchi,Eravur, Rathnapura, and the areas within proposed main urban agglomerations. Such installationswill enable to increase the carrying capacities of those locations, conserving sensitive naturaleco-systems.

For surface water drainage multiple measures will be required both at local level and regionallevel. As a general policy the installation of rainwater harvesting facilities in individualdevelopments as well as in urban neighborhoods with relatively larger scale developmentsshall be promoted in all built up areas, and specially in urban areas. This strategy is importantbecause it will partially compliment the water demand, contribute to prevent flash floods causedby reduced ground assimilation in built up areas and it will enable to recharge ground watersources.

The construction of bunds at appropriate locations and forming small to medium scale cascadingponds, managed by community organizations or the respective local authorities in all riverbasins will be a viable solution for the management of water in the less densely built areas. Thesurroundings of such ponds can also be used as sites for public recreation.

2.4.3.EnergyThe exiting plans pertaining to this sector such as the Long Term Generation Expansion Plan-2018-2037 (Draft) by Ceylon Electricity Board, Electricity Supply 2020 And BeyondChallenges And Recommendations published by the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka,and Towards an Energy Secure Sri Lanka’, Sustainable Energy Programmes 2015 – 2025,published by the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority, The Energy Sector DevelopmentPlan For A Knowledge-Based Economy 2015 - 2025 published by the Ministry of Power &Energy Sri Lanka, the Petroleum Exploration Development Plan (2017) by the PetroleumResources Development Secretariat; , Petroleum Resources Act No. 26 of 2003; show thatadequate attention has already been received by the energy sector. In conformity with the aimsand objectives mentioned therein, and to meet the physical development targets of this Plan,the following spatial strategies are proposed.

The said report on ‘Electricity Supply 2020 and Beyond: Challenges and Recommendation’recommends short-term, medium-term and long-term solutions to ensure long-term energysecurity in a sustainable manner. According to the report, the Sri Lankan power system hadtotal installed capacity of approximately 4054 MW by end of year 2016 with a total dispatchingcapacity of 3538 MW. The maximum demand recorded in 2016 was 2453 MW and totalgeneration was 14250 GWh. Generation expansion planning is a part of the process of achievingthe above objectives. In order to meet the increasing demand for electrical energy and toreplace the thermal plants due for decommissioning, new generating stations need to be installedas and when necessary.

Petroleum Resources Development Secretariat (PRDS) plans to move forward with a strategicoil and gas exploration and development plan prioritizing with a list of short, medium and longterm Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) projects taking into consideration the emerging businessmodels, newly introduced procurement methods, market potential and national benefitsprovisions, etc. with the purpose of adding extra value to the economy through capacity buildingof national human resources and technological advancement of the country through theparticipation of international Contractors/ Operators in upstream petroleum operations in SriLanka.

Energy

35AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Petroleum Resources Act No. 26 of 2003 is the governing legislation for petroleum explorationand development in Sri Lanka. The Petroleum Resources Development Committee (PRDC)established under this Act is responsible for implementing the provisions of this Act, and thePetroleum Resources Development Secretariat (PRDS) is responsible for the administrationand regulation of all exploration and production activities in Sri Lanka.

The larger share of the demand for both electricity and petro-based fuels will also be from theDevelopment Corridors. With the settlement pattern, industrial developments and transportationinfrastructure, proposed in the Spatial Strategy indicated in the Section 5.1 above, it can beexpected that more than half (50%) of the future national demand will be concentrated to theEast- West Development Corridor.

In that context, the looped continuous service network along the East-West DevelopmentCorridor, similar to what is proposed for water supply, is proposed to ensure a regular and non-interrupted provision of electricity, petroleum and gas supply which are critical for thepromotion of these main development areas. In addition to the augmentation of the existingsystems, new Petroleum and LNG terminals, and power generation plants at Trincomalee, andwithin close proximity to Colombo (Kerawalapitiya), will support the electricity, liquid fueland gas supplies to the entire island through a continuous channel. Similar establishments atappropriate locations in the other Development Corridors shall be considered towards 2030,in order to provide necessary utilities. To accommodate these installations, the traces ofproposed expressways and railways in the main Development Corridors, shall also be consideredas ‘Utility Corridors’.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority ‘s (SLSEA) Energy Management Action Plan (2016-2020) is to achieve 20 % energy generation from renewable sources by 2020 and this is anachievable target. This may be increased to 30-40% by 2050, but whether the entire energydemand can be met with renewable sources by 2050 is debatable. Yet, since Sri Lanka hasdetermined to meet the emission targets set out by international agreements and protocols,and also to ensure clean energy provision, roof top solar fields are proposed to be mandatoryby urban development regulations in all residential, commercial and institutional developmentstargeting to meet minimum of 20% of the energy demanded by respective urban areas. Groundarea solar fields are also proposed within close proximities to all Metropolitan areas and MainCities.

However, a comprehensive programme is essential to be developed now to manage the wastelikely to be generated from the solar uses in the near future. The promotion of ClGn installingshall be pat with side programme.

A few large scale hydro-power generation stations are proposed by the Ceylon Electricity Boardin Seethawaka (Kithulgala), Broadlands (Hatton), and Malwala (Ratnapura), all within the CentralFragile Area, identified by this Plan. Since this Plan suggests a depopulation strategy for thesesensitive areas, these projects can be well accommodated, subject to comprehensive studieson the impacts that they will have upon the natural environmental assets.

2.4.4.Waste ManagementEfficient solid waste management schemes are essential to support the envisaged physical andeconomic development scenario. The areas with proposed urban agglomerations are expectedto accommodate industrial, commercial, health and other service facilities, in addition to thelarge residential populations expected in them.

WasteManagement

36AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

The projects that are being implemented such as the Waste-to-Energy plants in Kerawalapitiya,Boralesgamuwa and Kandy, the Large Scale Sanitary Land Fills at Aruwakkalu will be takingmost of the waste generated within next decade, once they will commence their operations in2020. In that context, a centrally managed system that includes collection, transportation anddisposal, supported by modern technological interventions, operated through a National LevelWaste Management Authority is proposed to be established for the areas that fall within thefour Development Corridors, Metro Regions and the Main Cities, by 2020.

Owing to the relatively lower volumes of solid waste expected to be generated with the ongoingpromotional programmes and the lower populations expected in them, the other areas will beable to manage with the conventional recycling, composting and sanitary landfilling.

With the increasing awareness programmes on Reduction, Reduce and Reuse (3R), thegeneration and quantities coming into disposal may decrease, but the current socio- economicdevelopments indicate the need to have effective policies, instruments and methodologies tohandle non-conventional waste such as electronic waste, clinical waste, etc. The proposal fordisposal of such categories of waste is beyond the scope of this Plan, but when well researchedand effective disposal methods are developed, appropriate locations for facilities required toaccommodate them could be identified within the spatial framework provided by this Plan.

2.5 Social Infrastructure Provision

2.5.1ObjectiveProvision of Social Infrastructure is a critical requirement for human settlement developmentand related economic development. Among different types of social infrastructure requiredfor the successful implementation of the envisaged human settlement development pattern,education, health and administrative services are the most crucial for which successivegovernments have been paying special attention. The recent policy developments in these sectorssuch as ‘the ‘Nearest School- The Best school’ (Langama Pasela – Hondama Pasela),‘Compulsory Secondary Education’, ‘Tertiary Education for all’, ‘Prevention of NonCommunicative Diseases through Physically Active Nation’, Decentralized Administration,E-Governance, etc., have direct implications on the physical development of the island.

In that background, the following common objectives are set forth for the provision of education,health and administrative infrastructure.

2.5.1.1 Convenience to the Public

Similar to the physical infrastructure, the convenience to the users as well as the serviceproviders is an important factor that needs to be considered in the selection of thelocations for installation of social infrastructure facilities such as schools, hospitals,administrative offices, etc. In every occasion these facilities shall be planned as closeas possible to main access roads, urban centres and within close proximity to eachother.

2.5.1.2 Strategic Investments for Optimum Utility

It can be observed that education, health and administrative infrastructure are welldistributed throughout the island. Even though the demand on education and health areconcentrated to specific facilities and locations, future investment on social infrastructureshall ensure the improvement and augmentation of the existing facilities, rather thanestablishment of new facilities. In planning for investments, the maximum utility of thefacility shall be ensured through comprehensive feasibility analysis.

SocialInfrastructureDevelopment

37AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.5.1.3 Economical Operations and Sustainable Use

It is frequently stated that most of the investments in social infrastructure do not bring incredible returns to the economy. A well-organized hierarchy of the service, the locationsand the coverage of communities at different levels, usually minimize the waste and enableto optimize the cost and the use. At the same time, the upcoming automated serviceprovisions, e-learning, e-consultancy, etc., can be used to provide more efficient and lesscostly services.

2.5.2EducationA radical change in the education policy is necessary to overcome the current regional disparitiesobservable in Primary and Secondary education.

Currently, the primary education facilities are well located covering the entire island, and withinthe reach of maximum 02 km even in rural areas. The same facilities in those locations canwell serve the expected settlement distribution pattern with minimum additions andaugmentation. Yet, the qualities of those facilities are not commendable in all locations. A vastdisparity is observed between the ‘popular’ schools and the other schools. If the Government’s‘the nearest school’ policy is to become a reality, a remarkable investment on primary educationinfrastructure is essential within next ten years. This may include the reorganizing of schoolbuildings, spaces for curricular and co-curricular activities, sanitary facilities, teacheraccommodation facilities and utilities. In order to relieve the undue pressure built upon ‘popularschools’ the primary schools may have to be separated from the secondary schools at any cost.

The Government’s ‘Compulsory Secondary Education’ policy will be able to be effectuatedwith the wide spread of Secondary Schools available within close proximities to the main urbanareas. It is noted that the current locations of the secondary schools are within a range ofmaximum fifteen (15) kilometers from all reasonably densely populated areas and thus, coverthe entire island, with a satisfactory mobility of the students. Similar to the primary schools,the disparities noticeable among ‘urban’ and ‘non-urban’ schools shall be eradicated withinnext ten years for a better educated future generation and a fair distribution of education facilitiesamong all schools is essential towards that end. The currently evident undue interferencesfrom various parties into schools’ matters may lead into a more sustainable use of SecondaryEducation.

The tertiary education is increasingly in demand. The available state universities and the non-government degree awarding institutions may need to increase their capacities to cater to theemerging demand. For the establishment of new universities and other institutions as well asfor the expansion of the existing ones, the agglomerations identified within this plan areproposed. Most of the major urban areas do have universities and other tertiary educationfacilities, but for future establishments and extensions the location within close proximitiesto Mirigama, Dambulla, Mahiyangana, Wellawaya and Puttalam shall be considered, both asmeans to create positive externalities and thereby to boost local economies, and to get thoseeducational institutions to be served by the readily proposed infrastructure.

Vocational training will be high in demand, provided the existence of the need for technicallyqualified labour force to engage in future employment opportunities. It is observed that allMetro Regions and Main Cities identified in the Section 5.2 of this report, already haveTechnical and Vocational Training Institutes. The facilities in those locations shall be improvedto provide state-of the art vocational training for the emerging labour force.

Educaton

38AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.5.3HealthSimilar to the education infrastructure, the health sector facilities too is well covered throughthe entire island by maintaining a hierarchical structure and appropriately located withinreasonable range of reach from all areas of the island. The quality and the state of infrastructureneeds improvements for better services.

Deviating from the current administrative district based distribution, Dambulla, Embilipitiya,Mahiyangana and Wellawaya hospitals shall be upgraded to higher grade facilities (equal toGeneral Hospital) in order to serve the envisaged settlement distribution pattern. At the sametime, in addition to Colombo, four National level health establishments are proposed atTrincomalee, Anuradhapura, Matara, Ampara and Kilinochchi.

2.5.4AdministrationAdministration services play a significant role in attracting people and activating urban areas.The current administrative divisions and the hierarchy can be observed as descending from theBritish Introduced administration structure. This may need a change within next ten years forthe betterment of the proposed settlement development strategy. This Plan proposes to shiftthe current District Administrative functions from Matale to Dambulla, from Badulla toWellawaya and from Jaffna to Kilinochchi respectively, in near future, in order to discouragefurther agglomerations in the current locations because of their low carrying capacities, andto promote attractions in the new locations.

2.6Industrial Developments

2.6.1The ObjectiveDevelopment of manufacturing sector has been at the focus of many consecutivegovernments in Sri Lanka, and Industrial Development Policies have been formulated onseveral occasions in the past. Several institutions, Industrial Estates, Exclusive ExportProcessing Zones and Industrial Clusters have been formulated and are in operation.Still, under the current situation, most of them operate in isolation and a comprehensivepolicy to guide industrial developments is yet to be formulated. Therefore, as guidingprinciples to address the physical development concerns in a future industrial developmentpolicy, the following objectives are suggested:

2.6.1.1More leverage on Knowledge Base and Value AddingIt is widely accepted that the knowledge and innovation based industries and value addingindustries will be the thrust areas of future economic development in Sri Lanka.Capitalizing upon the educated high quality labour force along with the strategicgeographic positioning of the island, and exploiting the opportunities provided by thetechnological advancements and the emerging geo-political affairs, industries associatedwith Information Technology, Nano Technology, Genetic Technology, Aero Technology,Bio- Medical Technology, etc., and innovative value additions shall be given high priority.

2.6.1.2Promoting Non-polluting industriesManufacturing Industries contribute the largest share to Greenhouse gas emissions. Themodern innovation based industries can lead to ‘Zero Emission’ status, by adoptingefficient housekeeping and automation strategies.

However, Sri Lanka will not be able to totally free from heavy and lightweightmanufacturing industries until 2050. Therefore, such industries shall still remainmaintaining the permitted emission levels, adopting non-polluting technologies, standardindustrial practices, etc. The manufacturing industries shall be promoted to adopt emergingconcepts such as the ‘systems symbiosis’, ‘Industrial Ecology’, ‘Eco-industrial parks’,etc, in the planning and designing of them.

Health

Administration

IndustrialDevelopment

39AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.6.1.3Best use of the available port infrastructureIndustrial locations highly depend upon the availability of infrastructure. The large scaleassembling and yard facilities, associated with imports and exports shall gain theadvantages of the main sea ports in order to minimize the transportation costs and impactson the environment. Other large scale industries shall be concentrated into designatedareas for the efficient and economical provision of environmental infrastructure,integration of services to the establishments, and to avoid negative externalities resultingfrom them.

2.6.1.4Preserving traditional IndustriesTraditional industries and domestic industries shall be preserved and supported for longterm sustenance. They need to be addressed through a separate policy strategy along withthe other factors associated with them, notwithstanding the objectives of the NationalPhysical Planning Policy.

2.6.2.Concentration within Development Corridors:In order to ensure the settlement distribution pattern, the main employment generating majorindustrial developments are proposed to be concentrated within the proposed DevelopmentCorridors. The East- West Development Corridor can trigger future economic development inSri Lanka by exposing it to numerous opportunities provided through the two sea ports locatedin Colombo and Trincomalee. Making best use of the available transport infrastructure, availableland and the human resources, a larger share of industrial activities and thus, a large quantum offuture employment opportunities can be generated within this Corridor.

With the available and proposed infrastructure and land availability, the locations identified forManufacturing Sector industries are Horana, Ragama, Ekala, Biyagama, Katunayake, Mirigama,Alawwa, Kurunegala, Ibbagamuwa, Dambulla, and Trincomalee. These locations already havedesignated Industrial Estates which can be expanded to accommodate demands for manufacturingindustrial establishment up to 2030.

Depending on the availability of water resources, large scale industrial developments are alsoproposed in other three Development Corridors, mainly associated with the sea portdevelopments at Hambantota, Ampara and Kilinochchi.

2.6.3Special Zones for Innovation Based IndustriesThe innovative industries which can be regarded as the booster of the economy of Sri Lanka areproposed to be accommodated within close proximities to the existing Universities for themutual benefits of research and development. Colombo Tech-city project which is underwaycan be a catalyst for such developments in the Western region. Similar Techno-Parkdevelopments are proposed within close proximities to Kurunegala (associated with theWayamba University), and Trincomalee (associated with the Eastern University).

2.6.4Processing and Value Adding IndustriesRelated to agriculture and non-conventional plantations, farming and fisheries development,large scale value adding industrial developments estates are proposed in Colombo- Negomboarea, Mirigama, Kurunegala, Dambulla, and Trincomalee in the Main Development Corridor,Kilinochchi in the Northern Development Corridor, Embilipitiya and Hambantota in theSouthern Development Corridor and Ampara in Eastern Development Corridor. In addition tothem, Anuradhapura, Vauniya, Mannar, Mahiyangana and Wellawaya will be the other locationsthose could accommodate large scale agro based processing and value adding industrialdevelopments.

InnovationIndustries

Value AddingIindustries

40AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.6.5Containing Heavy Industries closer to PortsFor heavy industries and assembling plants the vicinities of Trincomalee and Hambantota seaports are the best identified locations. Since a majority of the high-tech, large scale industrieswithin the foreseeable future will be based on imported materials, and they will be mostlytargeting to be exported to external markets, they will naturally be benefited by locating closeto ports. Heavy industries shall not be located at internal locations in order to ensureenvironmental conservation and to prevent other negative consequences.

Supporting the port-proximity policy, the logistics related industries will be able to thrive atlocations between Colombo-Negombo area, Trincomalee - Kanthale area and Hambantota-Suriyawewa area.

2.7 Agriculture and Plantations

2.7.1ObjectivesIn spite of the relatively lower contribution expected from the agriculture and plantations tothe future economic development of Sri Lanka, the important goals of food security, resilienceto climate change effects, and the conservation of bio diversity necessitates a due regard forthese sectors in the formulation of physical development planning policies. Therefore, thefollowing strategies are proposed with the objectives of self-sufficiency in essential fooditems, conservation of critical environmental resources, and preserving long lived traditionsand their continuity for future generations.

In a National and Sctoral Level Plan prepared for the development of Agriculture and Plantationsthe following shall be given due consideration:

2.7.2Low human engagementIn the light of food security and preservation of traditional framing culture, due considerationshall continue on this sector. However, since the population directly engaged in agriculture isexpected to reduce from the present thirty percent (30%) to twenty percent (20%) by 2030,rapid modernization and technological interventions, but without compromising the traditionalpractices, is important. While there is a need for the formation of modern farmer communities,technology improvement, training and service proving programmes implemented by respectiveauthorities, such activities shall be supported as part of the regional extensions of proposedMetro Regions and the Main Cities.

2.7.3Effective use of landAccording to statistics, the total land extent under cultivation, both paddy farming and thehighland cultivations is around one million seventy thousand (1.7 million Ha), which is closeto one quarter (25%) of the total land extent. The statistics also show that cultivated lands havebeen increased over last decade by about 15%. This figure draws attention to two seriousconcerns: The first is that the additional land for agriculture is supplied essentially from forestareas and reserves, which is not a positive sign. The second is that the food production withinthe same period is not proportionate with the increase, and lead to the question of productivity.Therefore, a mechanism for the allocation and close monitoring of agricultural lands,effectuated at the Divisional Secretariat levels, is essential for the benefit of the entire nation.

2.7.4Conservation of agricultural lands in urban areasThe agricultural lands, including paddy fields and plantations, in urban areas are increasinglydemanded for physical developments. Even though agricultural uses are not economically viablein urban settings, the respective Urban Development Plans shall evaluate the non-market basedbenefits that they provide such as the continuity of the eco-system services, drainage, reductionof urban heat island formation and the maintenance of wind corridors, need for public openspaces, unique natural beauty of the locations, etc.

Heavy Industries

Agriculture andPlantations

Low HumanEngagement

Effective use ofland

ConservationAgriculture

41AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.7.5High quality plantationsEven though the conventional Tea, Rubber and Coconut plantations were the main contributorsto foreign earnings, their role is gradually becoming insignificant in the light of other non-conventional exports. The current issues pertaining to Tea and Rubber Plantations such as theshortage of labour, competition emerging from other producers, sinking markets due toalternatives, etc, do not warrant Sri Lanka to continue those plantations in the same traditionalphase. Instead, high quality production can only be promoted.

2.7.6Reforestation of the Central Fragile AreaDue to the environmental issues associated with high elevation Tea plantations, and also due tothe need for conservation of the Central Fragile Area, this Plan proposes to transform the non-performing plantations into non-commercial forest plantations and non- conventional export-crops. It is proposed to reduce the extents of land used for Tea Plantations in the elevationsabove 300 meters to 01% between 2020-2050. The low country plantations may remain, butwith stringent regulations to ensure the use of appropriate lands.

2.7.7Urban forestsThe agricultural lands and the rubber plantations within the proposed Development Corridorsmay be demanded for alternative developments in future. Even though they will not be highlyproductive, they shall be thoroughly evaluated case by case in terms of their contribution tothe sequestration of carbon emissions, reducing atmospheric temperature, and the aestheticallypleasing environments they provide, as against the market value of such lands, and then put intomost effective uses through the Development Plan prepared for respective local areas. Ingeneral, at least sixty percent (60%) of these lands in urban environments are proposed to bepreserved to meet the National Forestry improvement targets as set by the UN REDDProgramme (2016).

2.7.8Preserving Coconut plantationsThe coconut plantations will need to be protected to a large extent as the demand is unlikely tosink until 2030. The fragmentation and the conversion of the estates need to be addressed withproper alternative economic measures. The current policy of approving the fragmentation ofplantations less than ten acres need to be revisited in this regard.

2.8 Fisheries

2.8.1ObjectivesThe Ten Year Development Policy Framework of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Sector2007 – 2016(2007) is the existing plan for fisheries sector development. It provided strategiesand actions needed in support of the following sector policies in order to achieve targets.

1.Improve the nutritional status and food security of the people by increasing thenational fish production2.Minimize post-harvest losses and improve quality and safety of fish products toacceptable standards3.Increase employment opportunities in fisheries and related industries and improve thesocio-economic status the fisher community4.Increase foreign exchange earnings from fish products5.Conserve the coastal and aquatic environment.

High QualityPlantatons

Reforestation ofCentral FragileArea

Urgan Forests

PreservingCoconutPlantations

Development ofFisheries &AquaticResources

42AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

The National Fisheries Sector Development Strategy 2010-2013 was a short term plan forfishery sector development. The areas focused in the strategy are as follows:

1.Increased annual per capita fish consumption of 21.9 kg by 2013;2.Increased local fish production. It has been targeted to double the national fishproduction of the base year by 2013;3.Established price competiveness by means of promoting marketing;4.Adopt measures for fisheries social development through fisheries development;5.Implementation and management of fisheries sustainably by using novel techniquesand responding to international treaties on Law of the Sea.

The period of validity of these plans have already lapsed by now, but an assessment on theaccomplishments of the objectives is yet to be reviewed and a new plan is yet to be developed.

In a future plan for the development of the fisheries sector in Sri Lanka, the following itemsshall be given due consideration:

2.8.2.Improvements to existing infrastructureThe existing coastal and off-shore fishing infrastructure including the main fisheries harbors,boat anchoring points, collection centers storage and the training facilities well covers theentire coastal region of the island. Yet, they shall have immediate and heavy improvements inorder to modernize the fisheries sector as well as to uplift the quality of life of the communitiesengaged in fishing. New establishments can be considered only after 2030.

2.8.3Space for post harvesting management, processing and value additionIn order to support efficient management of the fish harvest and, add value to fish harvests,necessary facilities such as the processing plants, packaging units and cold storage facilitiesshall be provided in major centres such as Colombo, Negombo, Beruwala, Trincomalee, Galle,Matara, Tangalle, Hambantota, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Batticaloa, Oluvil and Kalpitiya.

2.8.4Development of the Inland fishingThe inland fishing shall be developed with major reservoirs, but the limitations in inland fishbreeding activities shall be well considered before selection of such locations.

2.9. Digital Infrastructure

2.9.1ObjectiveAt a time that the entire world is transforming into an internet and smart era, Sri Lanka too hasto equip its national, regional and local systems of planning, administration, public relations,communications, internal and international affairs with state-of-the art digital infrastructure.

While a few national level initiatives and programmes are already in place, the following arespecially noted for their importance for the implementation of the National Physical PlanningPolicy.

2.9.2Spatial Data InfrastructureSpatial information is a fundamental requirement for all levels of planning, implementationmonitoring and enforcement. With the advancement of technology, spatial information in digitalform is in great demand for fast, reliable, precise and cost-effective applications in all type ofwork. Currently several state sector organizations use digital spatial information, butunfortunately these databases are designed and maintained for specific purposes by individualorganizations. They are not widely shared for reasons such as the authorship, inflexibility,

Improvement ofFisheriesInfrastructure

HarvestManagement

Development ofInland Fisheries

DigitalInfrastuture

43AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

bureaucracy, etc. A national level authority for collection andupdating, verification and cording,dissemination and coordination of spatial information is a timely need of the nation to fastmove towards all of its development goals.

The National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI), initiated by the Ministry of Digital Infrastructureand implemented through Information and Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) is ofgreat value. The NSDI will be able to provide a digital platform for a variety of spatialinformation, generated and updated by different institutions, for a wider range of uses formultiple tasks by different agencies, in a standard and custom made formats. It will avoid theduplication, reduce costs, increase the reliability and the uniformity of information, leading tosynergy between different development programmes. Therefore, strengthening the NSDI ishereby mentioned as a priority requirement of the day.

2.9.3Personal Data/Identity InfrastructureParallel to spatial information, digital personal information too has become a need of the dayto formulate efficient, cost effective and accelerated service delivery to all citizens in allsectors including health, education, social welfare, banking, security, income tax and capacitybuilding.

The current electronic national identity card implemented by the Department of PersonalRegistration can be regarded as a commendable beginning, but it has to fast advance into ‘digitalidentity process’ to better serve both the public interest and the government objectives. Thedeveloped ‘digital identity’ may lead to a biometric data base that will bewidely shared bydifferent agencies with required confidentiality, statutory arrangements and security measuresto provide medical and health services, attainment in education, defence related purposes andaccess to public services. Such data base, instituted, operated and maintained by the Departmentof Registration. Even though a high capital instrument will be required to install the system, itwill drastically reduce the costs annually borne by the Government on public service deliveryand increase the efficiency of the agencies.

2.10Other Policies and Plans Available

It is observed that the following National Level Policies and Detail National Level Plans areeither published or being prepared. These plans were studied at the formulation of the GuidingPolicies and the preparation of this National Physical Development Plan. They are mostly inconformity with the National Physical Planning Policies, set out in the Section 03 of thisreport. Therefore, the following can be considered as corresponding sector specific policiesor plans at the implementation of this Plan.

2.10.1An action Plan for Air Quality Management - Clean Air Action Plan 2025prepared by the Resources Management Centre (AirMAC).

2.10.2National Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan (NBSAP) 2016-2022Produced by Biodiversity Secretariat, Ministry of Mahaweli Development andEnvironment, with Technical Assistance from IUCN, International Union for Conservationof Nature, Sri Lanka Country Office. (May 2016)

2.10.3National Climate Change Policy (2012) and National Disaster ManagementPolicy(2010)Prepared by the National Disaster Management Plan (NDMP) - 2013-2017 by DisasterManagement Centre

Personal DataInfrastruture

Avaliable Politicesand Plans forDevelopment andConservation

44AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

2.10.4National Policy on Elephant Conservation – 2006Prepared by Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment

2.10.5The National Policy on Wild Life Conservation – 2000Prepared by Ministry of Mahaweli Development and Environment

2.10.6National REDD+ Investment Framework and Action Plan (NRIFAP) 2017By REDD+Sri Lanka National REDD+ Investment Framework and Action Plan, 2017,Sri Lanka UN-REDD Programme.

2.10.7Sri Lanka Tourism Strategic Plan (2017-2020)Prepared by Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority

2.10.8National Policy on Mineral ResourcesDrafted by the NASTEC with the objectives to manage and strengthen the mineral sectorof Sri Lanka for its optimal potential, promote value addition to mineral resources ofthe country, ensure environmental management within the sustainable developmentframework of Sri Lanka while balancing the needs for social and economic development.

2.10.9Telecommunication and Digital InfrastructureFiber optic network plan of Sri Lanka Telecom PLC

2.10.10 The National Housing Policy (Revised in January 2019)

Prepared by the Ministry of Housing, Construction and Cultural Affairs.

In addition to already published National Housing Policy, the intervention of the governmentagencies to provide offordable housing in suitable areas for low-income and middle -income groups in a competitive manner with the private sector is essential to achieve agood social mix in urban areas.

2.11Policies and Plans in Need

At the same time, it is also observed that the following areas need National Level Policiesand Plans in order to support the development envisaged in this Plan.

2.11.1Ocean Resources Development and Marine Pollution PreventionIt is noted that most of the resources that will benefit Sri Lanka’s economic developmentare in the ocean space and in order to effectively and sustainably use them a NationalPolicy and a Plan is a requirement.

At the same time, their reliability depends upon the long term sustenance of suchresources. The marine pollution due to shipping related activities, illegal fishing methods,coastal pollution, disposal of land based waste, mining, etc. is a major threat to theirlong existence and sustainable use. The need for a Marine Pollution Prevention Policy ishighlighted in this context.

2.11.2Labour Resource DevelopmentThe human resource is one of the critical components for the National Development of anynation. Yet, it is noted that the use of human resources is not effectively managed. Whilethere is a serious labour shortage in all categories of a few high-paying sectors (eg:Construction, Manufacturing, Electronics, Information Technology, etc), there is an equallyserious excess labour in informal activities (eg: Three Wheeler operations, street vending,etc). This clearly shows a timely need for a National Level Human Resource DevelopmentPolicy and a Plan, integrated with the Education Development Plan.

Policies and PlansNeed for FutureDevelopment

45AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

3.0 The Implementation Strategy

3.1The ObjectiveAs stated in Chapter 01 of this report, the main objective of the National Physical PlanningPolicy is to provide a broad national level guidance for all development agencies for the planningand execution of development activities, which will have direct impacts upon the physicalenvironment of Sri Lanka and to establish facilities, amenities and service related infrastructureincidental upon the development of the physical environment.

This National Physical Plan is the development framework derived out of the said NationalPhysical Planning Policy. Since what the Plan provides is a broad-brush spatial framework, itsimplementation needs both technical arrangement as well as procedural arrangement. Thefollowing are the strategies proposed under each of them.

3.2The Technical Arrangement

3.2.1Detail Regional Development PlansThe main National Physical Plan shall be translated into detail Regional DevelopmentPlans those are formulated either for Provinces or Specially Designated Regions, underthe provisions of the Town & Country Planning Ordinance(Amended Act 2000). Thefollowing are proposed as priority Plans:

1.The East-West Development Corridor Region Development Plan2.The Northern Development Corridor Region Development Plan3.The Southern Development Corridor Regions Development Plan4.The Eastern Development Corridor Region Development Plan,5.The Greater Kandy Region Development Plan6.The Greater Anuradhapura Region Development Plan7.The Nine Main City Regions Development Plans8.The Central Fragile Area and Sensitive Area Conservation Plan9.Forest, Wildlife and Bio-diversity conservation Plan10.The Water Cascading System Rehabilitation Plan

The above Plans shall be developed either by the National Physical Planning Departmentor the Urban Development Authority, who are the agencies vested with powers for thepurpose and have the capacity to prepare Development Plans, in the present day context.If any other agency undertakes to prepare such plans both the National Physical PlanningDepartment and the Urban Development Authority shall be integrated into the PlanPreparation Process, in order to ensure a smooth flow of work, high level of conformityand minimum deviations.

Since most of the areas earmarked for the above regions cut across different administrativeProvinces of Sri Lanka a high level coordination among provincial administrative andpolitical authorities is essential for the preparation and implementation of these plans.The NPPD is hereby proposed to be given the authority to coordinate this activity.

3.2.2Detail Local Development PlansThe Local Area Development Plans are currently prepared by the Urban DevelopmentAuthority under the provisions of the Urban Development Authority Law of 1978 andsubsequent amendments or the National Physical Planning Department under theProvisions of the Town & Country Planning Ordinance (Amended Act 2000) or thedevelopment agencies authorized to formulate such plans. The Development Projectsare designed and executed by sector specific development agencies as per the provisionsof the respective legislations.

Implementations

RegionalDevelopmentPlans

LocalDevelopmentPlans

46AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Hereby it is proposed that all of the above mentioned Development Plans and Projectsshall strictly adhere to the framework set out by this National Physical Plan, and if therewill be any deviation required for compelling reason, such deviation shall be subject tothe review by the Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee (stated in Section 2.3.3below) and approved by the National Physical Planning Council (stated in Section 6.3.1below).

3.2.3Amendments to the Policy and the PlanA full scale review of the National Physical Planning Policy and the Plan proposed hereinis a requirement at the end of ten years (in 2028), in order to assess the level ofimplementation, its achievements and the needy amendments.

The process involved in the amendment is given in the Section 01 of this report.

The review shall be initiated by the National Physical Planning Department under theguidance of the Technical Advisory Committee, appointed for purpose, and with thecollaboration of all stakeholders. In doing that the four main guiding policies mentionedin section 03 of this report in order to guide all physical planning and developmentactivities shall continue as the core elements, while there shall be many timely integrationsfor the betterment of the policy and the plan.

3.3The Procedural Arrangement

3.3.1Annual Progress Reviews by the National Physical Planning Council chaired bythe Head of the State.Section 3 (1) of the Town & Country Planning Ordinance (Amendment Act 2000),provides for the establishment of the ‘National Physical Planning Council’ as the supremebody to direct the preparation and the implementation a National Physical Planning Policyand the Plan. By providing the ‘Head of the State’ to be the Chairman of the Council andnominating the Secretaries of relevant key Ministries and the Chief Ministers of theProvinces to the said Council, the National Physical Planning Policy and the Plan hasbeen provided with the required legitimacy and the supremacy.

The successful implementation and the monitoring of the Plan needs annual (or merefrequent) review of the progress for its achievements by the Inter-Ministerial CoordinationCommittee (stated in Section 6.3.3), submitted for the approval of the Council. Suchreviews and the feedback by the Committee, submitted to the Council and the necessarydirectives by the Council will enable to initiate corrective measures and the needy regularupdates to the Plan by the National Physical Planning Department.

3.3.2Undertaking by the National Planning Department to prioritize the fundallocation for developments in line with this Plan.The formulation and the implementation of the National and Regional Level projectsdepends very much upon the funds received from the Government Treasury. Within thecurrent arrangement, the annual budgetary allocations as well as the foreign aids forprojects and programmes are channeled through the approvals of the National PlanningDepartment. In that context, the National Planning Department has the most controlupon the effectuation of the National Physical Planning Policy and the implementationof the Plan set out in this report.

The National Planning Department is suggested to be a key undertaker of the Plan, withthe National Physical Planning Department.

LocalDevelopmentPlans

National PlanningDepartment

National PhysicalPlanning Coucil

47AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Direct investments by the private contributions are usually reviewed through respectiveDevelopment Agencies such as the Urban Development Authority, Forest ConservationDepartment, Local Authorities, Coast Conservation Department, Agrarian ServicesDepartment, Lands Commissioners Department, Road Development Authority and theCentral Environmental Authority. Therefore, in order to assure compliance of suchprojects to the National Physical Plan these organizations shall be made key stakeholdersof the National Physical Planning Policy.

3.3.3Annual Meetings of the Inter Ministerial Coordination Committee forcontinuity and consistence.The establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Coordination Committee, provided in the saidTown & Country Planning Ordinance (Amendment Act 2000), with the objective statedin the Section 4 A (1). As per the provision the Annual (or more frequent) meetings ofthis Committee will be essential to exchange views and comments between developmentagencies on the upcoming needs and the newly emerging requirements of those agencies,as well as the needy and timely updates to the National Physical Plan.

The recommendations made by this Committee from time to time shall be internallyreviewed by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC, as appointed under the provisionsof Section 5 C of the said Act of 2000) and presented for the approval by the NationalPhysical Planning Council.

3.3.4Development of the Capacities of the Implementation Units of the ProvincialCouncils and the Local AuthoritiesAs stated earlier, the implementation of the National Physical Plan has to be implementedthrough the National, Regional and Local Level Plans, prepared by different agencies.While the National level organizations such as the Urban Development Authority, CentralEnvironmental Authority and the Road Development Authority possess the requiredtechnical capabilities and financial capacities to undertake such implementations, theProvincial Councils and the Local Authorities currently do not have such capabilities.This is crucial because most of the ‘un-coordinated’, ‘unplanned’ and ‘ad-hoc’ developmentsare presently taking place all over the island, threatening to the environmentalsustainability, leading to the questions of economic feasibility and against wider socialacceptability, either with the blessings of the Provincial Councils and the Local AuthorityCouncils or without their knowledge.

The main reason behind this disjointed implementation is the absence of planningenvironments and the technically qualified staff to engage in them, in the agencies atthose levels to read, comprehend and to convince the administrative and politicalauthorities in them on the planning policies and the plans.

In order to overcome this obstacle and strengthen these two levels, it is proposed toappoint qualified ‘Town Planners’ at the Provincial Councils and the Local Authorities,assigned with the task of translating the National Level Planning Policies into Locallevel Projects and Programs as well as to integrate the Local Level requirements intoNational Level Plans and Policies. The Local Authorities and the Provincial Councilsmay assess the requirements to establish enabling planning environments in them withthe support of the relevant Ministry.

Inter-MinistrialCoordinationCommittee

Provincial andLocalGovernments

48AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

3.3.5Establishment of the caretaker and whistle-blower group to ensure consistency.In addition to the formal procedural measures stated above, a ‘Caretaker Group’ of theNational Physical Plan is proposed with the objective of providing communityengagement for the implementation of the Plan. The Group may be established throughformal means, but act as an open informal association of the interested parties includingNon-Governmental Organizations, Student Associations, Media Organizations and otherVolunteers.

The Caretakers will have frequent dialogues with the National Physical PlanningDepartment, National Planning Department and other relevant organizations on anyobservations and objections on deviations and improvements to the Policy and the Plan.The Group shall be empowered to blow whistles at any occasion when they observemajor deviations from the Plan and anything inconsistent with the Policy.

Vigilant Groups

49AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Table 01: Divisional Secretary Divisions (DSD) coming under the Proposed Development Corridors

Development Corridor/MetroDS DivisionsRegions/Main CityDSD falls within the immediateDSD falls within the Peripheryzone of the Corridorzone of the Corridor (within 10 Km)(within 10 - 20 Km)

East West Corridor

1Colombo Metro RegionColombo, Thimbirigasyaya, SriHomagama, Wattala, Ja – Ela,Jayawardhanapura Kotte, Dehiwala,Kaduwela,Maharagama , Kolonna, Kelaniya,Ratnmalana, Moratuwa, Kesbewa,Biyagama, Mahara,

2Negombo KatunayakaKatana, Negombo , WennappuwaMetro Region

3Gampaha Metro RegionGampaha,Minuwangoda, Divulapitiya,Attanagalla, Dompe

4Mirigama - WarakapolaMeerigama, Warakapola, NarammalaRuwanwella, Galigamuwa, Pannala

5Kurunegala Metro RegionKurunegala, Mallawapitiya,Bamunakotuwa, Ganewatta, Pallepola,Mawathagama, Maspotha,Yatwatta, Matale,Weerambugedara, Ibbagamuwa,Rideegamuwa

6Polgahawela - AlawwaPolgahawela, AlawwaNarammala, Rabukkana, KuliyapitiyaEast, Kegalle

7Dambulla Metro RegionDambulla, Galewela, Palugaswewa,Polpithigama, Kekirawa, Palagala,

8Hingurakgoda, Medirigiriya

9Trincomalee Metro RegionKanthale, Kinniya, Thambalagamuwa,Kuchchaveli, Morawewa, Muttur,Trincomalee Town & Gravets,

10Kalutara - BeruwalaKalutara, BeruwalaMathugama, Dodangoda, Millaniya

11Panadura - HoranaPanadura, Bandaragama,Horana

Northern Corridor

12Jaffna Metro regionJaffna, Nallur, Thenmaradchi,Valikamam North, Valikamam South,Pachchilaipalli,Valikamam South-West, ValikamamWest, Island South, Karainagar,Karaveddy, Kayts, Kopay VadamaradchyEast, Vadamaradchy North,

13ParanthanKandavalai

14KillinochchiKarachchiPart of Oddusudan DSD

50AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Southern Corridor

15Galle Metro RegionAkmeemana, Galle Four Gravets,Hikkaduwa, YakkalamullaHabaraduwa, Weligama, Imaduwa,Bope-Poddala,

16Matara Metro RegionDevinuwara, Dickwella, Matara FourPart of Akuresa, Athuraliya,Gravets, Welipitiya, Malimbada,Kamburupitiya, Kirinnda-PhulwellaThihagoda

17Tangalle - BeliattaBeliatta, TangalleHakmana, Weeraketiya, Okewela

18Embilipitiya metro RegionEmbilipitiyaSewanagala

19Hambanthota Metro Region Ambalantota, Hambantota,Agunukolapeles, LunugamveheraSooriyawewa

20Thissamaharama -Part of Katharagama andKataragamaTissamaharama

Eastern Corridor

22Batticaloa Metro RegionEravur Town, Kattankudy, ManmunaiManmunai West, EravurPattu,North, Manmunai P. (Araipattai),

23Kalmunei Metro RegionKalmunai Muslim, Kalmunai Tamil,Navithanveli, Porativu Pattu,Karaitheevu, Manmunai S.and Eruvilpattu, Sainthamarathu

24Ampara Metro RegionAmpara,Part of Uhana

25samanthureiNinthavur, Samanthurai

26AkkareipattuAddalachchenai , Akkareipattu

27ValachchenaKoralai Pattu (Valach.),Korale PattuKoralai Pattu Central, Koralai PattuWestSouth

28Other areasEragama, Manmunai.S,Alayadiwembu, Thirukkovil

Metro Regions

29KandyKandy, Kundasale , Harispattuwa,Udunuwara , Yatinuwara , Akurana,PathadumbaraPart of Pahathahewaheta

Table 01: Divisional Secretary Divisions (DSD) coming under the Proposed Development Corridors

Development Corridor/MetroDS DivisionsRegions/Main CityDSD falls within the immediateDSD falls within the Peripheryzone of the Corridorzone of the Corridor (within 10 Km)(within 10 - 20 Km)

51AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

30AnuradhapuraNuwaragampalatha East, part ofRambewewa, Thalawa, Thirappane, partMihinthale & Nuwaragampalathaof Mihinthale & NuwaragampalathaCentral , Nochchadoowa Central

Main Cities

31MahiyanganayaPart of Mahiyanganaya DS & Minipe DS

32MulaithiveMaritimepattuWelioya

33MannarMannar

34NuwaraEliyaPart of Nuwara Eliya DS(including MC area)

35PolonnaruwaPart of Thamankaduwa DS

36PuttalamPuttalam

37RathnapuraPart of Rathnapura DS & Elapatha DS

38VavuniyaPart of Vavuniya DS &Vavuniya South DS

39WellawayaElla, part of Wellawaya DS

Table 01: Divisional Secretary Divisions (DSD) coming under the Proposed Development Corridors

Development Corridor/MetroDS DivisionsRegions/Main CityDSD falls within the immediateDSD falls within the Peripheryzone of the Corridorzone of the Corridor (within 10 Km)(within 10 - 20 Km)

52AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Table 02: Proposed Urban Agglomeration Pattern - 2050

Metro Region/City/TownApprox.PresentPresentExpected ExpectedAreaPopulation - AnnualPopulationAnnual(Sq.km)(2012)Growth(2050)GrowthRateRate

East West Corridor

1Colombo Metro Region7403,039,9170.53,500,0000.42Negombo-Katunayaka Metro Region180445,5380.2600,0000.63Gampaha- Weyangoda Metro Region230375,9981.7600,0002.04Kurunegala-Metro Region1,163517,2711.41,000,0002.55Dambulla-Metro Region1,873326,6631.4500,0001.46Trincomalee Metro Region2,595371,8821.7700,0002.37Kalutara - Beruwala149323,7321.3500,0001.48Panadura - Horana218403,0541.8500,0000.69Mirigama - Warakapola390277,1631.1400,0001.210Polgahawela - Alawwa231128,8231.0200,0001.511Other Areas300180,0002.0200,0000.3

80696,390,0418,700,000

Northern Corridor

1Jaffna Metro region1,152619,0001,000,0001.62Paranthan25027,17050,0002.23Killinochchi52371,359150,0002.9

1925717,5291,200,000

Southern Corridor

1Galle Metro Region141241,3050.6300,0000.62Matara Metro Region261282,5010.7400,0001.13Hambanthota Metro Region749173,3091.8300,0001.94Embilipitiya metro Region383133,6001.3200,0001.35Tangalle - Beliatta258128,4991.2200,0001.56Thissamaharama- Kataragama29586,8261.2100,0000.47Other Areas134167,2641.3200,0000.5

22211,213,3041,700,000

Eastern Corridor

1Batticaloa Metro Region977261,2440.9300,0000.42Kalmunei Metro Region320236,422-1.7250,0000.23Ampara Metro Region49775,0000.7150,0002.64Samanthurei13876,1350.0100,0000.85Akkareipattu6270,9590.0100,0001.16Valachchena45378,634-4.9100,0000.37Other Areas57482,397-3.3100,0000.6

3021880,7911,100,000

53AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Metro Regions

1Kandy430758,8630.91,000,0000.82Anuradhapura1,670311,7981.4500,0001.6

Main Cities

1Mahiyanganaya29770,0250.5100,0001.12Mulaithive78562,000100,0001.63Mannar22068,184100,0001.24NuwaraEliya163926950.2100,0000.25Polonnaruwa22980,4480.6100,0000.66Puttalam18282,4431.6100,0000.67Rathnapura131106,8610.8100,000-0.28Vavuniya30075,000100,0000.99Wellawaya27171,5631.0100,0001.210Other Towns591825407361.33,000,0000.5

Total18,100,0001.0

Table 02: Proposed Urban Agglomeration Pattern - 2050

Metro Region/City/TownApprox.PresentPresentExpected ExpectedAreaPopulation - AnnualPopulationAnnual(Sq.km)(2012)Growth(2050)GrowthRateRate

Annexure 1: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions coming under the Central Fragile Area

ProvinceDistrictDSDLand Extent

(km 2)

1UvaBadullaBadulla49.292Bandarawela70.063Ella109.374Haldummulla4155Hali Ela170.146Haputhale70.337Kandaketiya152.628Lunugala141.819Meegahakiwula108.7210Passara137.2811Rideemaliyadda135.9212Soranathota438.2813Uva Paranagama80.8914Welimada193.915MoneragalaBadalkumbura235.9916Bibile483.5217Madulla722.52

54AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

18Medagama241.1419Moneragala292.5420SouthernGalleNeluwa152.2921Thawalama174.1522MataraKotapola179.3323Pasgoda153.9424Pitabeddara136.5625WesternKalutaraPalindanuwara283.2326CentralKandyAkurana30.3227Delthota51.1728Doluwa100.1729Ganga Ihala Korale88.9230Kandy Four Gravets & Gangawata Korale50.0731Harispattuwa64.9632Hatharaliyadda58.6933Kundasale80.8234Medadumbara190.3535Minipe249.2836Panwila91.9537Pasbage Korale121.938Pathadumbara48.9639Pathahewaheta83.540Poojapitiya58.3441Thumpane49.9342Udadumbara90.643Udapalatha277.0744Udunuwara67.2345Yatinuwara69.7946MataleAmbanganga Koralaya55.3847Dambulla455.1348Galewela198.649Laggala - Pallegama373.8450Matale72.951Naula285.1752Pallepola81.5453Rattota105.2354Ukuwela77.9155Yatawatta65.6256Nuwara EliyaAmbagamuwa487.9157Hanguranketha228.6258Kothmale223.72

Annexure 1: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions coming under the Central Fragile Area

ProvinceDistrictDSDLand Extent

(km 2)

55AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

59Nuwara Eliya483.5760Walapana321.5261SabaragamuwaKegalleAranayaka124.4262Bulathkohupitiya127.2563Dehiowita193.2464Deraniyagala222.0865Galigamuwa127.566Kegalle109.0667Mawanella114.968Rambukkana130.3369Yatiyantota178.0770RathnapuraAyagama157.6971Balangoda274.1672Ehaliyagoda141.9373Elapatha86.8574Godakawela155.7575Imbulpe255.2676Kahawatta102.6877Kalawana384.7578Kiriella79.5779Kolonna183.0380Kuruwita174.6781Nivithigala157.9182Opanayake75.8886Pelmadulla144.8484Ratnapura326.7985Weligepola203.5386North WesternKurunegalaMawathagama109.6287Rideegama222.54

Annexure 2: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions and other information coming under the Coast

Conservation Zone

DistrictDS DivisionsNo. of GNDsArea withina limit of 300

meterslandward

(km2)

ColomboColombo92.89Thimbirigasyaya62.01Dehiwala - Mount Laviniya20.45

Annexure 1: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions coming under the Central Fragile Area

ProvinceDistrictDSDLand Extent

(km 2)

56AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Moratuwa153.18Rathmalana41.49GampahaNegambo2711.03Wattala65.61Katana109.2KalutaraPanadura132.46Kalutara123.83Beruwala184.08GalleBenthota103.24Balapitiya133.99Hikkaduwa437.45Galle153.7Habaraduwa246.04Ambalangoda70.63MataraDevinuwara162.98Dikwella174.22Weligama195.84Matara102.87HambanthotaTissamaharama319.22Hambanthota1010.31Ambalathota83.46Tangalle209.3MannarMantai west1111.95Mannar3128.63Nanaddan76.94Musali68.98PuttalamVanathavillu920.75Kalpitiya3245.86Puttalam116.47Mundala117.35Arachchikattuwa64.3Chilaw82.92Mahawewa103.77Nattandiya61.75Wennappuwa102.9JaffnaPointpedro176.16Kopai1111.07Tellippalai73.95

Annexure 2: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions and other information coming under the Coast

Conservation Zone

DistrictDS DivisionsNo. of GNDsArea withina limit of 300

meterslandward

(km2)

57AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Chankanai95.97Maruthankerny1633.85Chavakachcheri2223.72Nallur156.17Kaytes2016.88Velanai3835.18Sandilipay83.21Delft633.21KilinochchiPachchilaipallai314.53Pooneryn745.35Kandavalai515.49MullaitivuMaritime pattu529.88AmparaKalmunai282.16Karativu50.89Nainativu102.19Attalachena92.01Akkaraipattu61.09Alayadivembu10.67Thirukkovil115.3Potuvil208.68Lahugala518.1Sainthamaruthu80.36BatticaloaKoralai pattu north1831.18Koralai pattu75.22Eravur pattu227.21Manmunai north2513.63Kattankudi81.23Manmunai pattu186.51Manmunai south & eruvil4914.91TrincomaleeTrincomalee town & gravets2222.33Thampalagamuwa21.47Muttur1013.24Kinniya94.58Verugal eachchalampattu38.35Kuchchaveli2138.18

Annexure 2: The list of Divisional Secretariat Divisions and other information coming under the Coast

Conservation Zone

DistrictDS DivisionsNo. of GNDsArea withina limit of 300

meterslandward

(km2)

58AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Sri Lanka’s coastal zone is defined in the Coast Conservation Act as the area lying within a limit of 300 meters landwardof the mean high water line and in the case of rivers, streams, lagoons or any other body of water connected to the sea,either permanently or periodically, the landward boundary shall extend to a limit of 2 kilometers perpendicular to thestrait baseline drawn between the natural entrance points thereof and shall include waters of such water bodies

Annexure 03: The most important Paddy DSDs in terms of % of total land extent

DSD NameDistrict% ofDSD NameDistrict% ofPaddyPaddylandlandextentextent

AmparaAmpara20BaddegamaGalle27MedawachchiyaAnuradhapura20Bope-poddalaGalle27WattalaGampaha20KaraveddyJaffna27MaharaGampaha20VelanaiJaffna27KopaiJaffna20RambewaAnuradhapura28BeruwalaKalutara20KaytesJaffna28MinipeKandy20MalimbadaMatara28AmbanpolaKurunegala20Eravur pattuBatticaloa29GanewattaaKurunegala20GampahaGampaha29WariyapolaKurunegala20KalutaraKalutara29KobeiganeKurunegala20NikaweratiyaKurunegala29WeerambugedaraKurunegala20KinniyaTrincomalee29KekirawaAnuradhapura21ChankanaiJaffna30AmbalangodaGalle21KaytesJaffna30KelaniyaGampaha21AmbalanthotaHambanthota31KatupothaKurunegala21MillaniyaKalutara31Maritime pattuMullaitivu21Vavuniya southVavuniya31DehiattakandiyaAmpara22GalnewaAnuradhapura32KahatagasdigiliyaAnuradhapura22Koralai pattu westBatticaloa32Welivitiya-divithuraGalle22BenthotaGalle33Ja-elaGampaha22VelanaiJaffna33VelanaiJaffna22MutturTrincomalee33KarachchiKilinochchi22NachchaduwaAnuradhapura35GalgamuwaKurunegala22NanaddanMannar35MaspothaKurunegala22Padawi sripuraTrincomalee36KamburupitiyaMatara22AngunukolapelessaHambanthota37KalmunaiAmpara23Maritime pattuMullaitivu37PalagalaAnuradhapura23Maritime pattuMullaitivu38GiribawaKurunegala23TalawaAnuradhapura39PolpithigamaKurunegala23manmunai westBatticaloa41IbbagamuwaKurunegala23KaraveddyJaffna41PolgahawelaKurunegala23RajanganayaAnuradhapura45MataraMatara23AkkaraipattuAmpara46HomagamaColombo24MannarMannar48

59AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

KaytesJaffna24ThihagodaMatara48ChavakachcheriJaffna24KandavalaiKilinochchi49MathugamaKalutara24Manmunai South WestBatticaloa51MahawaKurunegala24AttalachenaAmpara54PanduwasnuwaraKurunegala24ThambuththegamaAnuradhapura54WeligamaMatara24SammanturaiAmpara64KesbewaColombo25KarativuAmpara64SandilippaiJaffna25AlayadivembuAmpara66EhetuwewaKurunegala25Porativu pattuBatticaloa69ThirukkovilAmpara26Maritime pattuMullaitivu72GalenbindunuwewaAnuradhapura26NainativuAmpara73BandaragamaKalutara26Manmunai northBatticaloa78LankapuraPolonnaruwa26KaraveddyJaffna96IpalogamaAnuradhapura27

Annexure 03: The most important Rubber DSDs in terms of % of total land extent

DSD NameDistrict% ofDSD NameDistrict% ofRubberRubberlandlandextentextent

MillaniyaKalutara16MawathagamaKurunegala16MalimbadaMatara16HomagamaColombo17YakkalamullaGalle17YatawattaMatale17Welivitiya-divithuraGalle18AranayakeKegalle20BeruwalaKalutara22AmbangangaMatale23AyagamaRatnapura24PelmadullaRatnapura24NagodaGalle25MataleMatale27ElpitiyaGalle28WalallawitaKalutara28NivithigalaRatnapura28MawanellaKegalle29AgalawattaKalutara30TumpaneKandy30HoranaKalutara31KegalleKegalle31

Annexure 03: The most important Paddy DSDs in terms of % of total land extent

DSD NameDistrict% ofDSD NameDistrict% ofPaddyPaddylandlandextentextent

WarakapolaKegalle35BulathsinhalaKalutara37MadurawelaKalutara37GaligamuwaKegalle40BandaragamaKalutara42ElapathaRatnapura42YatiyantotaKegalle43KiriellaRatnapura43KuruwitaRatnapura44MathugamaKalutara45BulathkohupitiyaKegalle45Palinda nuwaraKalutara46DeraniyagalaKegalle49DodangodaKalutara54PadukkaColombo55HanwellaColombo56RuwanwellaKegalle58EheliyagodaRatnapura60DehiowitaKegalle72

60AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Annexure 03: The most important Tea DSDs in terms of % of total land extent

DSD NameDistrict% of Tea land extent

AkmeemanaGalle10Uda dumbaraKandy10AkuranaKandy10ImbulpeRatnapura10GodakawelaRatnapura11BulathkohupitiyaKegalle12AthuraliyaMatara12BaddegamaGalle13PelmadullaRatnapura13WelimadaBadulla14PujapitiyaKandy14MulatiyanaMatara16AmbangangaMatale18PasgodaMatara18HangurankethaNuwaraeliya19TawalamaGalle20SoranathotaBadulla21Patha hewahetaKandy22UdunuwaraKandy22Uva paranagamaBadulla23Meda dumbaraKandy23YatinuwaraKandy23WalapaneNuwaraeliya23KahawattaRatnapura23KotapolaMatara25PassaraBadulla27UkuwelaMatale29PitabeddaraMatara30RaththotaMatale32EllaBadulla37BandarawelaBadulla37NuwaraeliyaNuwaraeliya40Pasbage koraleKandy41BadullaBadulla43Hali-elaBadulla44HaputaleBadulla45Ambangamuwa koraleNuwaraeliya46Ganga ihala koraleKandy47KotmaleNuwaraeliya48DoluwaKandy52Uda palathaKandy54PanwilaKandy61DelthotaKandy65

61AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Annexure 03: The most important Coconut DSDs in terms of % of total land extent

DSD NameDistrict% of Tea land extent

KelaniyaGampaha10PanaduraKalutara10Verugal eachchalampattuTrincomalee10Manmunai northBatticaloa11HomagamaColombo11KegalleKegalle11NikaweratiyaKurunegala12GodakawelaRatnapura12Ja-elaGampaha13MaharaGampaha14GaligamuwaKegalle14MataraMatara14BenthotaGalle15MahawaKurunegala15WarakapolaKegalle16HabaraduwaGalle17MinuwangodaGampaha17WattalaGampaha17Kirinda-puhulwellaMatara17Bope-poddalaGalle18PallepolaMatale18RasnayakapuraKurunegala20DevinuwaraMatara20KattankudiBatticaloa22HikkaduwaGalle22KatuwanaHambanthota22KalutaraKalutara22TangalleHambanthota23GalleGalle26DompeGampaha26WeligamaMatara26PachchilaipallaiKilinochchi27AttanagallaGampaha28WeeraketiyaHambanthota28BiyagamaGampaha29BeruwalaKalutara32KalpitiyaPuttalam33PuttalamPuttalam33OkewelaHambanthota34MeerigamaGampaha36KalpitiyaPuttalam37MundalaPuttalam37

62AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

IbbagamuwaKurunegala38PallamaPuttalam39DikwellaMatara41RidigamaKurunegala42PolgahawelaKurunegala43GanewattaaKurunegala47MawathagamaKurunegala47RambukkanaKegalle50KurunegalaKurunegala50ArachchikattuwaPuttalam50ChilawPuttalam50NegamboGampaha51KobeiganeKurunegala51WennappuwaPuttalam52MahawewaPuttalam54AlawwaKurunegala55MaspothaKurunegala58NattandiyaPuttalam59WariyapolaKurunegala60PanduwasnuwaraKurunegala60PannalaKurunegala61DivulapitiyaGampaha62KatanaGampaha62KatupothaKurunegala62MallawapitiyaKurunegala63BeliattaHambanthota65BingiriyaKurunegala65NarammalaKurunegala66DankotuwaPuttalam66NegamboGampaha67WeerambugedaraKurunegala67MundalaPuttalam67Kuliyapitiya eastKurunegala68MadampePuttalam68Kuliyapitiya westKurunegala69UdubaddawaKurunegala77KaytesJaffna88Koralai pattu northBatticaloa92

Annexure 03: The most important Coconut DSDs in terms of % of total land extent (Contd.)

DSD NameDistrict% of Tea land extent

63AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Annexure 04: The list of enactments related to the agro conservation zone .

Seed Act No 22 of 2003Plant Protection Act, No.35 of 1999Soil Conservation Act, No 25 of 1951 Seed ActSoil Conservation Act, No. 24 of 1996Control of Pesticides (Amendment) Act No. 6 of 1994

Annexure 5: The District and number of DSDs coming under the Water Conservation Zone

DistrictNo. of DSDs

Ampara12Anuradhapura22Badulla14Batticaloa07Colombo07Galle17Gampaha13Hambanthota11Jaffna04Kalutara12Kandy19Kegalle11Kilinochchi04Kurunegala29Mannar06Matale11Matara14Monaragala11Mullaitivu07Nuwaraeliya05Polonnaruwa07Puttalam15Ratnapura17Trincomalee11Vavuniya07

64AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'06'12PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.06.2019

Annexure 06: The list enactments related to the Water Conservation Zone

State Land OrdinanceLand Development Ordinance Irrigation OrdinanceAgrarian Development ActWater Resource Development Act Forest OrdinanceWildlife Conservation ActNational Water Supply and Drainage Board Act Soil Conservation ActDisaster Management Act Coastal Conservation ActUrban Development Authority ActLand Reform LawActs pertaining to plantation crops including Tea/ Rubber/Coconut Mahaweli Authority Act

Annexure 07 - Policies related to the Eco Conservation Zone

ForestNational Forestry Policy – 1995

WildlifeThe National Policy on Wild Life Conservation - 2000 National Policy on Elephant Conservation – 2006

BiodiversityNational Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan 2016-2022

FisheryThe National Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Policy (2006) Coastal zone and coastal resource management plan -2016

Air resourcesNational Air Quality Management Policy – 2000

EnvironmentNational Environment Policy – 2003 National Policy on Wetlands – 2005

MineralNational Policy on Sand as a Resource for the Construction Industry – 2006 Draft national policy on mineralresources - 2017

06 - 752

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA