==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2096$5 - 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 05 jeks i÷od - 2018'11'05No. 2096/5 - MONDAY, NOVEMBER 05, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority) PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A- G 28851 - 16 (11/2018)

My No : CI/1795

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

THE Memorandum of Understanding entered into betweenFinlays Colombo Limited, No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo02 of the one part and the United Tea, Rubber and LocalProduce Workers Union, No. 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha,Colombo 05 of the other part on 24th April 2018 is herebypublished in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial DisputesAct, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon(Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05,26th October 2018.

Memorandum of Understanding No. 17 of 2018

Collective Agreement

This Collective Agreement made on this 24th day of AprilTwo Thousand Eighteen, to take effect from the First day ofJanuary Two Thousand Seventeen, between Finlays ColomboLtd., a Company having its registered office at No. 186,Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, (hereinafter referred to as "theEmployer") of the one part and the United Tea, Rubber &Local Produce Workers' Union, a Trade Union duly registeredunder the provisions of the Trade Unions' Ordinance andhaving its registered office at No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha,Colombo 5, (hereinafter referred to as "the Union") of theother part.

Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties asfollows :-

TITLE

This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the"Finlays Colombo Ltd., Manual Workers' CollectiveAgreement of 2017".

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

PART I

Containing Terms and Conditions of Employment andMatters Incidental Thereto and Connected therewith

1. Persons Covered and bound

This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, theUnion and all employees who are members of the Union andare employed on monthly Contract of Employment.

2. Date of Operation and Duration

This Agreement shall by effective from the First day ofJanuary Two Thousand Seventeen, and shall thereaftercontinue to be in force unless it is determined by either partygiving one month's notice in writing to the other, subject tothe proviso that on party hereto shall not give such notice tothe other party to commence before the First day of DecemberTwo Thousand Nineteen (2019) and such notice shall notexpire before the Thirty First Day of December Two ThousandNineteen.

3. This Agreement shall supersede and replace theprovisions of the "Finlay Colombo Ltd. Manual Workers'Collective Agreement 2014".

4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment

During the continuance in force of this Agreement, theterms and conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed tobe included in each contract of service between the Employerand an Employee covered and bound by this Agreements,whether such contract of service be written or oral, whichwas subsisting on the date hereof or which shall come intobeing at any time after the date hereof during the continuancein force of this Agreement.

Provided the said terms and conditions of employment inrespect contract of service of the Employees, may be amendedwith the consensus of the Trade Union and upon suchamendments being agreed upon in writing.

5. Probation

Every employee recruited by the Employer shall serve aperiod of probation of not more than six (6) months, Provided,however, that if during the six (6) months probationary periodthe Employer is not satisfied with the progress of suchEmployee, the probationary period may be extended for afurther period of three (3) months and in that event theEmployer shall indicate to the Employee in writing, the reasonswhy the probationary period has been extended. During the

period of probation or extended probation, the Employer shallhave the right to terminate the services of the Employeewithout notice. If the Employee's services are not terminatedfor unsatisfactory service during the period of probation orextended probation and the Employee has not been confirmedby the Employer, the Employee shall be deemed to beconfirmed in its Employer's service with effect from the dayafter the day on which the period of probation, as the casemay be, ended.

6. Attendance

(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by theEmployer an Employee shall present himself for workon every day (other than a holiday) at the usualstarting time of the store, factory, mill or job andshall there remain available for work throughout thenormal working hours.

(2) If at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarilynot available for an Employree in his own occupation,he shall be deemed to be ready and willing to performwork within the capacity and skill in any otheroccupation at any other work site of the Employerwhere work is available.

(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of anEmployee shall consitute neglect or duty for whichhe shall be liable to appropriate desciplinary action.

7. Hours of Work

The normal working hours shall be those hours, which arecustomarily worked at a store, factory, mill or job in theEstablishment of the Employer.

8. Forfeiture of Wages

Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of theEmployer an Employee fails to hold himself available for workthroughout the normal working hours of each working day,he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deducthis wages for the period from the time at which such failureoccurs until he is again available for work.

9. Overtime

(1) If required by his Employer, and Employee shall workreasonable overtime, which has been authorized bythe Employer. Refusal to work reasonable overtimein the absence of a satifactory explanation, which isacceptable to the Employer, shall constitute neglectof duty, for which an Employee shall be liable toappropriate disciplinary action.

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

(2) Overtime work (i. e. work performed in excess ofnormal working hours) shall be remunerated at oneand one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rateascertained in accordance with the provisions of 16(a) hereof.

10. Weekly Holidays

(1) In respect of each week, an Employee shall be alloweda holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weeklyholiday. Provided, however, that if any Employeehas not worked for a period of at least twenty eight(28) hours, exclusive of any period of overtime workduring that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and hisEmployer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wagein respect of the weekly holiday for that weekcomputed in accordance with the provisions ofClause 16 (b) hereof.

(2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hoursreferred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shallinclude-

(a) every holiday allowed by the Employer to theEmployee as annual holiday.

(b) every Public holiday granted by the Employerin terms of Clause (II) hereof and

(c) every day's absence on any ground approvedby the Employer.

(3) The Employer may employ any Employee ona weekly holiday subject to the followingconditions :-

I. A day within the six days next succeedingsuch weekly holiday shall be allowed to thatemployee as a holiday with remuneration.Provided, however, that if any employee whois employed on a weekly holiday is liable toforfeit and his Employer is entitled to deductone day's wage in respect of that weeklyholiday as provided in sub-clause (1), thenand in such event that Employee shall forfeitand his Employer shall be entitled to deductone day's wage computed in accordance withthe provisions of Clause 16 (b) hereof inrespect of the holiday which shall be allowedto that Employee within six (6) days of thatweekly holiday. Provided, further that inrespect of not more than two (2) such weeklyholidays in any one calendar month an

Employee may with the consent of theEmployee.

(a) instead of allowing an alternate holidaywithin six (6) days of the weekly holidayin respect of which that Employee shallnot be liable to forfeit, and the Employershall not be entitled to deduct one day'swage computed in accordance with theprovisions of Clause 16 (b) hereof in lieuof such alternate holiday.

or

(b) in case that Employee is entitled to analternate holiday within six (6) days ofthe weekly holiday as aforesaid inrespect of which alternate holiday heshall be liable to forfeit and the Employershall be entitled to deduct a day's wageas aforesaid, employ that Employee onthe alternate holiday.

II. That in respect of work done on such weeklyholiday, the employee shall be paid asremuneration.

(a) one and one half (1 1/2) times the normalhourly rate ascertained in accordancewith the provisions of Clause 16 (a)hereof for the number of hours workedduring the first nine (9) hours (exclusiveof one hour for meal), and

(b) at double the normal hourly rateascertained in accordance with theprovisions of Clause 16 (a) hereof foreach subsequent hour of work.

The provisions of this Sub-clause shallnot apply to Employees engaged onwork outside the business premises ofthe employer for period exceedingtwelve (12) days in respect of theduration of each such period.

11. Annual Holidays

Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee inaccordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for theTea Export Trade, Engineering Trade and Motor TransportTrade, as the case may be.

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

12. Public Holidays

(1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee inaccordance with the Decisions of the Wages Boardfor the Tea Export Trade, Engineering Trade andMotor Transport Trade. Provided, however, that anemployee may be employed on a Public holidays inaccordance with the Decisions of the relevant WagesBoard.

(2) If any Public holiday to which and Employee iseligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) fallson a Sunday, a day either in the six (6) daysimmediately preceding or in the six (6) daysimmediately succeeding such Public Holiday shallbe granted to the Employee as a weekly holiday inaccordance with the provisions of Clause 10 hereof.

(3) If any Public holiday to which an Employee is eligibleunder the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on aSaturday, the number of hours constituting thenormal working day (inclusive of one hour for meal)on the day immediately preceding such Public holidayshall be six and one half (6 1/2) hours.

13. Casual Leave

In respect of each year of employment during which anyemployee has been continuously in employment, thatemployee shall be entitled to take on account of privatebusiness or other reasonable cause, including ill-health, ifthat Employee's entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized,leave (hereinafter referred to as "casual leave") withremuneration for the period or an aggregate of period notexceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow suchcasual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration.

Provided, however, that not more than two (2) days' casualleave shall be taken at any time, save and except upon theground of ill-health. Provided further that any worker shallnot be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding orimmediately following any period of annual holidays. Providedfurther that in respect of any Employee's first year ofemployment, including any period of probation, he shall beentitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basisof one day for each complete period of two months' service.

Casual leave will normally be granted on applicationwithout the employee being required to state the reason forthe application. Where an Employer finds it difficult to grantan application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notifiedto the Employee as soon as possible after the application ismade and in such case, the Employee may be required to

state the reason for the application in order that the Employermay decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances togrant him casual leave.

14. Sick Leave

An Employee who has joined the services of the companyon or before the 24th of April 2018 shall be entitled to sickleave not exceeding twenty-one (21) days. Provided that -

a) His illness is supported by a Medical Certificate froma Registered Medical Practitioneer (unless waivedby the Employer) and

b) The Employee shall not be on probation within themeaning of Clause 5 thereof. Provided, however, thatan Employee who has been on probation shall asfrom the date of confirmation in respect of theremainder of the first year of employment be entitledto sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he isconfirmed after six (6) months' probation and sickleave not exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmedafter nine (9) months' probation.

An Employee who has joined the services of the companyon or after 24th April 2018 shall be entitled to sick leave notexceeding seven (7) days provided that -

a) Any absence on the ground of illness over andabove two consecutive days is supported by aMedical Certificate from a Registered MedicalPractitioner (unless waived by the Employer) and

b) The Employee shall not be on probation within themeaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided, however, thatan Employee who has been on probation shall asfrom the date of confirmation in respect of theremainder of the first year of employment be entitledto sick leave not exceeding three (3) days if he isconfirmed after six (6) months' probation and sickleave not exceeding two (2) days if he is confirmedafter nine (9) months' probation.

15. Monthly consolidated wages

1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 thereof, thesalaries of employees covered and bound by thisAgreement will be revised as follows :

a) The employer shall increase the salaries ofemployees covered by this agreement, by 9%with effect from 1st January 2017 on thesalaries as at December 2016.

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

b) Each employee shall thereafter be placedon the corresponding point of the salary scaleset out in the First Schedule hereto in thegrade applicable to him. If there is nocorresponding point, he shall be placed onthe next highest point on the same scale.

c) Thereafter salaries will be increased by a further5% with effect from 1st January 2018 on thesalaries as at December 2017.

d) The salaries will be increased again by a further5% with effect from 1st January 2019 on thesalaries as at December 2018.

c) In addition, with effect from 1st January 2017the employee who are so eligible will receiveincrements on the following basis.

Current annual increment rates are Rs.

50/- (Manual worker - tea export/engineering unskilled)75/- (Engineering Skilled)60/- (Engineering Semi Skilled)80/- (Drivers 0-5 years of service)100/- (Drivers 5-10 years of service)120/- (Drivers over 10 years of service)

2) The scales of the consolidated wages set out inSchedule I hereto include all statutory allowancesas at the date of this agreement.

3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of changingthe incremental date of an Employee.

4) In lieu of the consolidation of salaries, based on theColombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI), hithertoprevailed, with effect from First day of January 2017a sum of Rs. 550/- will be added and the scales ofconsolidated wages set out in the First Schedulehereto shall be revised by addition to and byconsolidation of the salary at such stage of eachgrade of each employee.

In a similar manner a further sum of Rs. 550/- will beadded with effect from First day of January 2018 andagain a further sum of Rs. 800/- will be added witheffect from First day of January 2019 and the scalesof consolidated wages in the First Schedule heretoshall be revised by addition to and by consolidationof the salary at such stage of each grade of eachemployee.

The Employer also agrees to make a payment toeach employer covered by this Agreement by wayof Notional arrears, (for the period January 2017 toJanuary 2018)

However, parties agree that such payments madeby way of notional arrears for the period January2017 to January 2018, shall not attract consequentialbenefits such as EPF/ETF, etc.

5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement,the Government of Sri Lanka -

a) Prescribes increase in wages by any writtenlaw and applicable to categories covered bythis Agreement, legally obliging the Employerto make such payment, the Employer shall paysuch increase in wages prescribed by suchwritten law and in terms of such written law.

b) Recommends increases in wages, suchrecommendations will not be applicable to theEmployer, irrespective of whether or not suchrecommendations are applicable to categoriescovered by this Agreement.

16. Wages for period less than one month

For the purpose of this Agreement, the wages of anEmployee for periods less than one month shall be computedin the following manner.

a) For one hour-the monthly wage divided bytwo hundred (200)b) For one day-the monthly wage divided bytwenty six (26)c) For one-half day-a day's wage ascertained asabove divided by two (2)(either morning or(Afternoon)d) For one week-a day's wage ascertained asabove multiplied byseven (7).

17. Production Bonus in lieu of NRCLG

The employer, the Union and the employees agree that apayment guaranteeing a minimum amount of Rs 27,000/- perannum (Rs. 2,250/- per month) will be paid to each employeecovered and bound by this agreement, provided however,that the quantum of this payment (subject to the minimumpayment of Rs. 27,000 per annum) will be calculated inaccordance with the under-noted formula and subject to theprovisions of the succeeding sub clause of this paragraph.

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

The formula :

BulkRupeesTB Range RupeesPacketRupees

Range-MT-MTRange

MTMT

Less than 1020Less than 40600.0 Less than 100500

11-203041-45637.5100-150625

21-305046-50712.5151-200875

31-407051-55787.5201-2501125

41-509056-60862.5251-3001375

51-6011061-65937.5301-3501625

61-7013066-701012.5351-4001875

71-8015071-751087.5401-4502125

81-9017076-801162.5451-5002375

91-10019081-851237.5501-5502625

(i) The calculation on the above formula will be on amonthly basis and will be subject to a maximumpayment of Rs. 3,500/- per month

(ii) The above payment shall be payable by theEmployer to an Employee who is eligible to receivethe same by virtue of his service under the Employerduring a part of the year by reason of the fact thathe is not in the Employer's service when the paymentbecomes due in January of any year of he joined theEmployer's Service during the course of thequalifying year. (Qualifying period will be fromJanuary to December)

(iii) The above payment shall not be payable to anEmployee in respect of any period for which hereceived no wages for whatever reason.

(iv) The formula referred to above is based on thenumber of machines available and the capacity ofthe factory at present. Acquisition of new machineryin the future by the employer, parties agree to amendthe formula referred to above.

(v) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or anyother payment shall be due or calculated on theabove payment.

18. Provident Fund

1) An Employer and Employee shall contribute to theProvident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees'Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.

2) Subject to the provisions of the Employees TrustFund Act, No. 46 of 1980, where an Employer andEmployee as at the date hereof were contributing toa Provident Fund at rates more favourable than thoseprescribed by the Employees' Provident Fund Act,the more favourable rates of contribution willcontinue.

19. Skills Allowances

An allowance of Rs. 400/- per months will be paid to theemployees who are identified for placement as Electriciansand Mechanics, Similary, Machine Operaters, ForkliftOperators and Quality Checkers will be paid an allownace ofRs. 350/-, Thereafter when the Employees acquire vocationalqualifications prescribed by the company, subject to thembeen placed in the relevant grade and re-designated, theywill become entitled to a further increase of Rs. 475/-, and Rs.400/- respectively. The total amounts of Rs. 875/- (Electriciansand mechanics) and Rs. 750/- (Machine Operators, ForkliftOperators and Quality Checkers) respectivly will beconsolidated in to the salary of each employee and theallowance will be discontinued forthwith.

These employees who have already been entitled for theaforementioned payments previously will b paid the differenceas indicated below and the following amount will beconsolidated to the salary with effet from 01st January 2017.

- Electricians and Mechanics : Rs. 300/-- Machine Operators, Forklift Operators and QualityChecker Rs. 200/-

The above training will be conducted by the company orby an Institute recommended by the Company. The Companyagrees to bear the course fee, if any

20. Terminal Benefits

1) Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, payterminal benefits to Employees in accordance withthe scheme of terminal benefits set out in this Clause.

2) The scheme shall apply to every Employee in theservce of an Employer on the First day of JanuaryTwo Thousand Seventeen or who joins the serviceof an Employer on any day after the First day ofJanuary Two Thousand Seventeen as long as thisAgreement continues in force.

3) As and by way of terminal benefits the Employershall pay an Employee as sum equivalent to onemonth's wages for each year of service less theEmployer's contribution to the Provident and TrustFunds but exceeding interest thereon.

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

4) The wage on which the said terminal benefits undersub-clause (3) hereof shall be payable will be thelast monthly wage receivable by an employee onwhich Provident Fund is payable and shall notinclude any production bonus payment made in lieuof NRCLG.

5) For the purpose of calculating terminal benefitsunder this Clause, an year of service shall be a periodof not less than six months.

6) The terminal benefits provided for in this Clausr shallbe payable to an Employee on the cessation of hisservices arising from death or any other causewhatsoever, Provided, however, that if at the date ofcessation of an employee's services there is due tothis Employer from the Employee any sum on accountof fraud, misappropriation or any other account andthe same cannot be recovered from the amount tothe Employee's credit in the Provident Fund the sameshall be recovered from the terminal benefitsprovided for herein.

7) The provisions of this Caluse shall not apply toEmployers who operate a more favourable schemeof terminal benefits.

8) On the death of an Employee whilst in service, whoeligible to receive terminal benefits under this Clause,his Employer shall pay such terminal benefits in themanner and to the persons hereinafter set forth-

a) If there is a valid nomination in force for thepurpose of the deceased Employee's ProvidentFund at the date of his death, to the nomineeor nominees of such Employer in conformitywith the form of nomination where suchnominee is surviving and of full age.

b) Where there is no valid nomination or in theevent of the nominee or in one or more of thenominees having pre-deceased, the Employeeor in the event of a nominee being minor at thetime that the payment of the terminal benefitsbecome due, the Employer shall make paymentonly after the person or persons entitled tothe payment have established their claim inlaw and furnished proof thereof.

9) In the event of any written law providing for thepayment of gratuity or terminal benefits, the morefavourable scheme shall apply but not both.

10) No employee shall be entitled to any gratuity orterminal benefits in addition to the terminal benefitsprovided for in this Clause or by any written law asthe case may be.

21. Bouns

1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes andwithout prejudice to te Employer's claim that bonuspayments in the past and as provided in thisAgreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subjectas hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each ofhis Employees who have not been on unatuhorizedabsence, a bonus which will not be less than thesum of money paid to him as his bonus for the yearimmediately preceding the signing of thisAgreement. In exceptional circumstances to bedetermined by the management on a case by casebasis, an employee who had been on unauthorizedabsence may be considered for payment of bonus.If in any year the Employer, at his discretion, reducesthe bonus to an amount less than the sum of moneypaid to each of his Employees as bonus for the yearimmediately preceding the signing of thisAgreement, the Union may canvass such reductionof bonus with the Employer. If the Union is notsatisfied by the Employer in this matter, the Unionmay pursue this matter with the Federation. If thedispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settledwith the Federation, the same shall be referred to aCommittee of three persons (hereinafter referred toas "a Bonus Committee) which shall be constitutedin accordance with the provisions of sub-clause (2)for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.

2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute,as to the reduction of the bonus, the Commissioner-General of Labour will constitute a Bonus Committee,which shall consist of three Senior Accountantsnominated by the Council of the CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka.

The said Chartered Accountants shall be personswith at least 10 years' post qualifications experience,The slection of the three Chartered Accountantswill be communicated by the Institute of CharteredAccountanst to the Commissioner General of Labourto the Employer, the Union and the Federation.

Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour willcommunicate in writing to each member of the BonusCommittee so constituted, a Statement of Principalsand Procedure by which the members of the BonusCommittee shall be bound in settling the disputesas to the reduction of bonus.

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the Statementof the Principles and Procedure from theCommissioner General of Labour, the BonusCommittee shall, in accordance with the saidPrinciples and Procedure, decide whether thereduction of the bonus by the Employer was justifiedand if the reduction was not justified to what extent,if any, the bonus should be reduced, The BonusCommittee shall communicate the decision in writingto the Federation and the Union and theCommissioner-General of Labour.

If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous,such decision shall be final and binding on theparties to the dispute and the Union and/or itsmembers shall not pursue the matter further by anyform of Trade Union action or otherwise during thecontinuance in force of this Agreement. If, however,the Bonus Committee is divided in its decision, thenthe decision of the Commissiner General of Labouron the matter shall be final and binding on the partiesto the disput and the Commissioner's decision shallbe communicated in writing by the CommissionerGeneral of Labour to the Federation, and the Union/or its members shall not puruse the matter further byany form of Trade Union action or otherwise duringthe continuance in force of this Agreement.

4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor becompetent to decide that in any year the Employershould pay his Employees a bonus exceeding thesum of money paid as bonus in the year immediatelypreceding the signing of this Agreement.

5) The fees payable to the members of each BonusCommittee shall be borne equally by the parties tothe dispute as reduction of bonus and be payableon demand by the Commissioner-General of Labour.

6) The payment of bonus exceeding the sum of moneypaid as bonus to Employees in the year immediatelypreceding the signing of this Agreement shall be atthe sole discretion of the Employer and shall not becalled in question by the Union or any of its membersnor shall the Employer's failure or refusal to paysuch bonus be the subject of any dispute.

7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4) (5)and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the existingbonus scheme.

At the request of the Commisioner-General of Labour,the Council of the Institute of Chartred Accountantsof Sri Lanka will nominate three CharteredAccountants without less than 10 years of post-qualification experience drawn from a professionalAccountancy Firm to serve on the Bonus Committee.

22. Annual Increments

The annual increments provided in each grade of the scalesof consolidated wage in the Fist Schedule hereto shall beautomatic unless as a matter of punishment for generalineffeiciency including irregular attendance or unpunctualityor disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct, anincrement is suspended, stopped or deferred, in which casewhere as increment is -

a) deferred - the loss of increment shall be continuousthroghout the year.

b) stopped - the loss of increment shall only be for theperiod of stoppage during the year.

c) suspended - the increment is suspended pending adecision to defer to stop an increment, such decisionbeing dependent upon a consideration of the factorsgiving rise to the suspension. Where on suchdecision an increment is neither stopped nor deferred,then the suspension shall be treated as waived andthe full increment from the date of suspensionthereof shall accrue to the Employee concerned.

Deferred, stoppage or suspension of an incrementshall only be effected in cases where the Employeehas been notified in writing of a complaint againstsuch Employee and has been found guilty after dueinquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which,in the circumstances, does not merit termination ofemployment.

23. Warning

If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants awarning, the same shall be conveyed to the Employee byletter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee.If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate, the warningmay be given to the Employee orally by the Employer in thepersence of two witnesses.

24. Suspension

1) a) An employee may be suspended without payby his Employer -

a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employeron a charge or charges of miscondut whichwarrants dismissal.

b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace ordamage, the property or disbturbance of thebusiness of the Employer.

c) As a punishment for misconduct for a periodnot exceeding seven (7) working days after dueinquiry.

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a)or within twenty four (24) hours thereof theEmployer shall provide th Employee with a writtenorder of suspension specifying the reasons forsuch suspensions and thereafter hold an inquiryinto the charge or charges in terms of Caluse 25hereof.

25. Disciplinary Action

Where an Employer proposes to proceed against anEmployee, then -

1) irrespective of whether an Employee has beensuspended under Clause 24 thereof or not, theEmployee shall be furnished with a show-cause,which shall set out the particluars of th charge orcharges of misconduct alledged against suchemployee and such show-cause notice shall givethe Employee not less than three (3) clear workingdays in which to give the answer or explanationto the charge or charges preferred.

2) within three (3) clear working days, after the dateof the show-cause notice, the Employee shallfurnish in writing to the Employer, the answer orexplanation to the charges preferred against suchEmployee, Provided, however that is in thecircumstances it is reasonable, the Employee mayask the Employer for an extension of time withinwhich to furnish the written answer or explanationto the show-cause notice and where such requestis made by an Employee to the Employer, theEmployer shall grant such request for such furtherperiod of time as is deemed necessary in thecircumstances of the case.

3) if the Employer is satisfied with the written answeror explanation of the Employee, the Employeeshall, if he is under susspension forthwith, bereinstated and shall be paid all wages andentitlements due for the period of suchsuspension.

4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the writtenanswer or explanation of the Emloyee to theshow-cause notice and such answer orexplanation is rejected by the Employer, theEmployer shall commence an inquiry within ten(10) working days from the date of receipt by himof the written answer or explanation to the show-casue notice.

5) after holding such inquiry, the Employer shallnotify the Employee of the findings on each ofthe charges in the show-cause notice and thepunishment, if any, imposed by the Employer,Provided that if any Employer fails to make anorder except for reasons beyond the control ofthe Employer on the charges in the show-causenotice within thirty (30) working days from theconclusion of the inquiry into such charges, theEmployer shall not be liable to be punishedthereafter in respect of such charges and noinference adverse to the Employee in respect ofsuch charges shall be drawn from such charges.

6) if the Employee is under suspension and theEmployer after such inquiry makes order that -

a) the Employee shall not be dismissed thenthe Employee shall resume employmentforthwith and shall, subject to theprovisions of sub-clause 24(1)(c) hereof bepaid all wages and entitlements due for theperiod of suspension irrespective of suchother punishment less than dismissal thatmay be imposed by the Employer on thefindidngs as to the charges in the show-cause notice.

b) The Employee shall dismissed - TheEmployee's dismissal shall take effect fromthe date of the Employee's suspension andaccordingly the Employer shall not be paidfor the period of such suspension.

c) In view of the serious or involved natureof the charges in the show-cause noticeagainst the Employee, the Employer isunable to make a final order as it isnecessary and desirable that the matter bereferred to the Police or other authoritiesfor further investigations or inquiries andthat the matter be therefore referred to thePolice or other authorities or if in view ofthe serious or involved nature of thecharges preferred against the employee, thematter had been previously referred to thePolice or other authorities for investigationor inquireis that the outcome of suchinvestigation or inquiries be awaited, thenin either such circumstances, the Employeemay remain suspended without pay.

10AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

7) If in any case where an Employee is suspendedas provided for herein, an Employer fails to makean Order under paragraph (a) to (c) of thepreceding sub-clause for any reason other thenthat of the Employee's own seeking within thirty(30) working days from the date of the Employee'ssuspension, the Employee shall be entitiled tohalf his normal remunerations for the period ofthirty (30) days from the date of such suspensionand to his full remuneration for the period ofsuspension in excess of thiry (30) days up to thedate on which the Employer makes an order underparagraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clauseirrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.

8) In any case where an Employee is suspended, asprovided herein, the Employer shall make anorder under paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub-clause(6) within ninety (90) days of the date ofsuspension of the Employee unless he isprevented from so doing by reason of theEmployee's own seeking or for reasons beyondthe control of the Employer or it is agreed betweenthe Federation and any of the Unions that in thecircumstances of the case the period ninety (90)days be extended for such further time as may beagreed.

9) An Employer shall not be required to hold aninquiry as referred to in sub-clause (4) and (5)hereof where the Employer proposes to warn theEmployee or where the Employer admits to thecharge or charges, Provided, however, that if theUnion disputes the warning or punishment,imposed on the Employee by the Employer andrequests the holding of an inquiry, the employer.

shall comply with such request and the provisionsrelating to the holding of an inquiry shall thenapply subject to the exception that the fact thatthe inquiry had not commenced within ten (10)working days after receipt of the Employee'sexplanation shall not be material or relevant.

26.Retirement

On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employeeshall, ipso facto, retire and cease to be employed andthere shall be no obligation on the Employer to givethe Employee any notice of such retiremnt. Provided,however, that an employee who has retired may, atthe discretion of the Employer, be employed after hisretirement on a temporary basis on such terms as maybe mutually agreed.

27.Termination of Service

1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for thehire of any Employee by the Employer, except forwork usually performed by the day or by the job,or by the journey , shall (subject to provisoins ofClause 5 hereof or unless otherwise expresslystipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be acontract for hire and service for the period of onemonth and to be renewable from month to monthand shall be deemed and taken in law to be sonenewed unless one month's previous notice isgiven by either party to the other of his intentionto determine the same such month has expired.

2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particularjob or period, such as casual or temporary work,he shall be informed thereof at the commencementof his employment, and his contract of servicewill terminate on the completion of the job orperiod or on the failure of the employee tocomplete the job within a reasonable time.

28.Union Recognition

The Union shall be competent to makerepresentations on behalf of its members who areemployed in any work place of the Employer in regardto issues of general application or to the effect ofprinciple such as matters affecting general terms andconditions of employment, either in the work place orthe trade as a whole, the following provisions shallapply :-

1) When the Union is reprsentative of not less thanforty per centum (40%) of the employees, whosemembership subscription is not in arrears, theEmployer will recognise the Union for the purposeof general claims and matters and negotiate withit on that basis. If there is any other Union whichis also representative of not less than forty percentum (40%) of such Employees, the Employerwill be at liberty to require that general claimsand matters be discussed and negotiated with allthe Unions competent to make general demandsby virtue of the requisite membership and notseparately with each such Union.

2) When the Employer carries on more than onetype of business or has more than one work placeand the claim or matter is restricted to one type ofbusiness or one work place but is applicable orcapable of being applicable to other Employees

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

in the service of the Employer, the competence ofthe Union to make such claim or raise such mattershall be determined by referenc to the dulyqualified members of the Employees in the serviceof the Employer in Sri Lanka.

3) If it becomes necessary to decide the questionwhether at the establishment of the Employer,the Union is competent to make general claims orraise general matters, the same shall be determinedby a Referendum, which shall be held by theDepartmnt of Labour and the result of suchReferendum shall be binding on the Employerand that Union and the parties hereto.

29.Disputes Procedure

1) In the first instance, the Union shall submit anydemand on behalf of its members to the Employerand give the Employer at least ten (10) workingdays time within which to reply. If, in the Union'sopinion, the Employer's reply is unsatisfactory,the Union and the Employer shall explore thepossibility of reaching a settlement.

2) Where the Union concludes that negotiationswith the Employer have been abortive, it shallask the Department of Labour to intervene andgive the Department not less than ten (10) workingdays to arrange Conference and/or discussionswith a view to a settlement of the dispute.Negotiations under the aegis of the Departmentof Labour shall then proceed until the Depatmentof Labour reports failure.

3) Subject to the provisions of Clause 32 hereof, alldisputes between the Union and the Employershall be settled in accordance with the provsionsof the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulationsmade thereunder.

4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigatesupport or engage in any unfair labour practiceduring the currency of this Agreement.

30.How Anomalies in the course of Implementing thisAgreement shall be dealt with

Any anomaly arising from the implemenation of thisAgreement shall be settled by negotiation betweenrepresentatives of the Federation and the Union andif the matter cannot be settled by negotiation, thematter shall be settled in accordance with the

provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and theregulations thereunder.

31.Trade Union Action

The Union and its members and the Employeescovered and bound by this Agreement jointly andseverally agree with the employer that during thecontinuance is force of this Agreement they shall notengage in any strike or other form of Trade Unionaction against the Employer in respect of any TradeUnion action against the Employer in respect of anydispute between the Employer on the one hand andthe Union and/or its members and/or any employeescovered and bound by this Agreement on the otherhand, whether or not such dispute is related to thisAgreement, except where such disputes has beencaused by an act of an Employer which, in the opinionof the controlling body (by whatsoever name called)of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculatedto threaten or undermine the existnce or the legitimateactivities of that Union and/or its members or isgrossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interestsof the Union or its members.

Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days' noticein writing shall be given by the Union to the Employerconcerned, the Federation and the CommissionerGeneral of Labour before the date of commencementof any intended strike or other form of Trade Unionaction consequent to an act of an Employer which inthe opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoevername called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive orcalculated to threaten or undermine the existence orthe legitimate activities of the Union and/or itsmembers or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimentalto the interest of that Union and/or its members.

32.Variations of Terms and conditions of employmentbenefits.

1) The Union and its members and the Employeescovered and bound by the Agreement jointly andseverally agree with the Employer that duringthe continuance of force of this Agreement, theywill not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any ofthe terms and conditions of employementpresently applicable to any of the Employeescovered and bound by this Agreement asamended or altered in terms of this Agreement, orall or any of the benefits presently enjoyed byany of the Employees covered and bound bythis Agreement other than by mutual agreement.

12AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

2) The Employer agrees with the Union and itsmembers and the Employees covered and boundby this Agreement that he shall not seek to vary,alter or withdrawl all or any or the benefitspresently enjoyed by the employees covered andbound by this Agreement other than by mutualagreement.

4) Any dispute or difference arising fromnegotiations under the provisions of sub-clauses(1) or (2) may be resolved by voluntary arbitrationbut only if all the parties concerned agree tosubmit such dispute or difference for settlementby voluntary arbitration.

PART II

Containing the facilities an concessions granted by theEmployee to the Union

1.Breaches of Collective Ageement

If in the opinion of the employer the Union commits abreach of any of the terms of this CollectiveAgreement, then and in any such event the Unionshall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities andconcessions granted by the Employer in thesucceeding clauses of this Part and the same shallstand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer'sright to restore such facilities and concessions uponsuch terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.

2.Domestic Inquiries

If an Employee who is furnished with a show-causenotice in terms of Clause 25 is a member of the Union,the following provisions shall apply to the inquiryheld by the Employer pursuant to such show-causenotice.

a) The Employer will subject as hereinafter provided,allow a member of such Union (hereinafter referredto as ‘Observer’) to be present as an Observerwithout loss of wages for absence from work.

b) If the Employee who is served with a show-causenotie desires an Observer to be present at theinquiry to be held pursuant to such show-causenotice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at leastbefore the time appointed for the commencementof the inquiry submit to the Employer the nameof such Observer.

c) An Observer may answer any question whichthe person who conducts the inquiry may askhim, but an Observer shall not be entitled torepresent the Employee who is served with ashow-cause notice or otherwise partake in theinquiry.

d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall beentitled to require an Observer who obstructssuch inquiry in any manner whatsoever towithdraw therefrom and an Observer shallforthwith comply with such requirement.

e) The absence of an Observer from the whole orpart of an inquiry for any reasons whatsoevershall not vitiate such inquiry nor the proceedingsthere at nor the findings pursuant thereto.

3.Union Meetings

The following provisions shall apply to meetings ofthe Union :

a) In respect of each meeting, which the Uniondesires to hold at the Employer's premises, anapplication for permission shall be previouslymade to the Employer.

b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, theEmployer shall be entitied to impose, inter alia,one or more the under-noted conditions.I.That no person other than an Employee inthe services of the Employer shall bepresent at a meeting of the Union.

II.On occasions such as the Annual GeneralMeeting of the Union, the Office Bearersof the Parent Union may, with the previousapproval of the Employer, attend.

III.Fix a time limit within which a meeting ofthe Union shall be concluded or adjourned.

c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its OfficeBearers to ensure that the terms on whichpermission to hold a meeting of such Union isgranted, are duly complied with.

d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its OfficeBearers to ensure that no damage is caused inthe course of or in connection with a meeting ofthe Union to the Employer's property or anyother persons at the Employer's premises and

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

the Unioin shall indemnify the Employer and keepthe Employer indemnified against any suchdamage.

4.Duty Leave

The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :

1) Without prejudice to the right of the Employer torefuse to grant premission if, at his discretion theexigencies of the circumstances warrants refusal,the Employer will generally grant permission fornot less than two Office Bearers of the Union -

a) to be present at the Conference held underthe aegis of the Employer or the Employers'Federation of Ceylon or th Department ofLabour in connection with a disputebetween the Union and the Employer.

or

b) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts,Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals withoutloss of wages for such absence.

2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leavewithout remuneration to an Employee to attend atrade union course of seminar or conferenceeither in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employeeconcerened is entitled to Annual or other holidayswhich he wishes to utilize for the purpose.

5.Check - off

1) This Clause shall apply to the Employer if in hisCompany the membership of the Union is notless than forty per centum (40%) of the employeescovered and bound by this Collective Agreement.

2) The Employer shall, on the written request of anemployee, deduct from the wages due to suchEmployee the current monthly Union dues as arespecified by the employee to be payable monthlyby the Employee to the Union and remit theamount as deducted to the Union, in accordancewith the procedure and upon and subject to theconditions here in after set forth.

3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction ofUnion dues from his wages shall sign anstatement to that effect in the form set out inForm No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as an"Authorisation") as set out in the First Schedulehereto.

4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw hisagreement to check-off at any time by signing astatement to that effect in the form set out inForm No. 2 (thereinafter referred to as a"Revocation") as set out in the First Schedulehereto.

5) As far as practicable deduction under anauthorisation shall commence from the wages dueimmediately after the date of receipt of suchauthorization and shall continue therafter untilthe authorization is cancelled by a revocation.

6) As far as practicable deduction under anauthorization shall cease from the date of receiptof a revocation cancelling such authorization.Provided however -

a) that an employer shall not be liable in anymanner whatsoever to the Union or theEmployee concerned for failure to complywith sub-clauses (5) or (6).

b) that, at his discretion, the Employer shallbe entitled not to make deductions by wayof check-off in any month in which thededuction by way of check-off , willtogether with all other deductions from theEmployee's wages in that month exceed thedeductions permitted by law.

7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth dayof each month remit the Union dues deductionfrom the wages of the employees in the monthimmediately preceding to the Treasurer of theUnion in accordance with the tenor of eachauthorisation by a cheque payable to theTreasures thereof and crossed "Account Payee".

8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Unionand the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope, addressed to the treasurer of theUnion at its address for the time being.

9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptlyacknowledge receipt of the cheque.

10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to theUnion or to the Treasuree on its behalf, asaforesaid, any sum other than the Union duesactually deducted.

14AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

FORM No. 1

Name of Employer :

Authorisation

As I am an employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement affecting Employees employed in a mannual orlabouring capacity in the .....................................................Trade and bearing No. .......................................... of 2017 and I desireto avail myself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the............................................................Union.

Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees .................................................................... (Rs...............) in respect ofmy current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first paymentshould please be made from my wages next due, immediately following the date hereof.

...........................Signature of Employee

...................................Date of Signing

..........................................(Full name of Employer)

Received on........................................

(To be filled by employer)

FORM No. 2

Name of Employer

Revocation

With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues infavour of ...........................................................Union with effect from the wages next due to me, immediately following the datehereof.

...........................Signature of Employee

...................................Date of Signing

..........................................(Full name of Employer)

Received on........................................

(To be filled by employer)

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

PART III

Containing Definitions of Certain Words

In parts I and II of this Agreement, unless excluded by the subject or content, the following words shall have the meaning setopposit to them :

WordsMeaning

Branch UnionThe Branch Union of the United Tea, Rubber & Local ProduceWorkers' Union covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.

Check - offThe act of the Employer deducting at the request of the Union,subsecription payable to the Union by an Emloyee from the letter's paywith his concurrence.

DisputeShall have the same meaning as in Industrial Disputes Act.

EmployeeAn employee convered and bound by(for convernience sometimes)

Referred to as he or its grammaticalThis Agreementvariations)

Industrial Disputes ActThe industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950

Normal Incremental DateThe date on which an employee would normally receive an increment.

UnionUnited Tea, Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union

WageThe monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in theFist Schedule hereto.

WeekThe period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on thesucceeding Saturday night.

YearA continuous period of twelve (12) months.

Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine, Words importing the singular number shall include theplural and vice versa.

In Witness whereof the parties aforementioned have hereunto set their hands at Colombo. G. S. Jayasinghe, ExecutiveDirector for & on behalf of Finlays Colombo Ltd, and D. W. Subasinghe, General Secretary for & on behalf of United TeaRubber & Local Produce Workers' Union on this 24th day of April Two Thousand Eighteen.

........................................................................G. S. JayasingheD. W. SubasingheExecutive DirectorGeneral SecretaryFinlay Properties (Pvt.) LtdUnited Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union

....................................Coralie PieterszExecutive DirectorFinalys Properties (Pvt.) Limited

16AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.11.2018

Winesses :

1.Name : 1. Dhaniskka Dharmarathe1.Name : R. M. N. S. RathnayakeDesignation : Manager - HRDesignation : Branch President

2.Name : 2. Chaminda Waduge2.Name : S. Y. A. S. SilvaDesignation : Manager ProductionDesignation : Branch Secretary

11 - 802

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA