==== BLOCKS ==== 

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

w;s úfYI

wxl 2060$32 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 03 jeks fikiqrdod - 2018'03'03No. 2060/32 - SATURDAY MARCH 03, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

North Central Province Council Preventing Public Health Nuisances Statute No. 02 of 2017

THE aforesaid passed by the North Central Provincial Council of Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic & the assent by theHon. Governor on 30th January 2018 is hereby, there, published by me for information.

H. L. S. WIJESINGHA, Secretary, North Central Provincial Council.

North Central Provincial Council,19th February 2018.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A PG 3935 — 307 (03/2018)

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20182 A

STATUTE OF PREVENTING PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES OF THE NORTHCENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL NO. 02 OF 2017

This Status is for planing the rules and regulations to uplift and conserve the public health, prevent thenuisance and diseases spreading through mosquitoes, control other public health nuisances and matterrelated or consequential to them. The Statute is incompatible to the nuisances Activity Ordinance Act, No.15 of 1882 amended by Act, No. 61 of 1939 and Act, No. 57 of 1946 and Breeding of Mosquito and preventionAct, No. 11 of 2007.

The powers vested by law on the provincial Administrative Institutions will not be deprived or limited bythis Statute.

The North Central Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka Declaresis follows.

01. This Statute will be called as the Statute of Preventing Public Health Nuisance of the North CentralProvincial Council No. 02 of 2017 and it will be effective from the date of assent by the Governor.That date should be notified through a Gazette Notification by the Minister.

Part IOffences

02.Under this statute, the actions statutes below are offences.

(a) Throwing or depositing or allowing to enter animal excreta or any filthy dirt, garbage or anythingthat emits a bad smell or something that is unclean or that emits a bad smell or allowing to flowfrom or wash out from or enter from their house or building or land or allowing any amount ofsimilar water to become unclean or polluted in to any drain, moat, waterway, lake, reservoir,water well, water vessel, flowing water or irrigation by any person.

(b) Keeping or allowing to keep things such as an animal, excreta, meat, fish, fruits or vegetable thatare unsuitable for human consumption in a market, shop, building, bazaar, a place used to sellmeat, birds such as kitchen, fish, fruits or vegetables or keeping of allowing to keep in any suchplace or street by any person.

(c) By any person, selling or presenting or publicly displaying anything that is in an unsuitablecondition to be used as human food or drink or knowing that is in a unsuitable condition or withthe belief that there is reason for it to be unsuitable.

(d) Any person throwing or putting or causing his/her servant to do so, any soil, waste water orrubbish or dirt or ash or broken glass or earthenwear pots or any other debris or any article ormaterial or liquid in such a manner that it is a hindrance to the health, on to a road or public placeor to be a by - road or drain.

(e) Washing vehicles on a main road, street, highway, foot path or an entry road using water fromwater mass/column or water well or any source of water, by any person, in such a manner thatit makes them unclean or is a nuisance to the public health.

(f) Causing or allowing any animal or animals to pass faeces or urinate, by any person, on any mainroad, highway, street, foot path, entry road, or public place.

(g) Allowing keep any rubbish, animal parts,, litter or any other thing that emits noxious smell orstench, without depositing it in a relevent vessel or in a place well covered, keeping such vessel

Long Name.

Short Title andDate ofimplementation.

Putting Wastematerial in toWater.

Keeping thingsthat are unsuitablefor humanconsumption forselling.

Selling, harmfulthings as food.

Throwing garbageon to a road ordrain or publicplace.

Washing Vehicles.

Animals defillingan entry road orpublic places.

Keeping garbageor any such thing.

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

in state of loath some or stench or neglecting without taking suitable action to depose thethings from it and clean it by any person who resides in a house, building or land or else in aroad, street or main road, or near such a place in a populated area.

(h) Keeping or allowing to keep a place unclean or in a manner detrimental or bothersome to thehealth of any person or allowing such a place to be overgrown with plants in a mannerbothersome to public health by the owner of a rentable or non-rentable house, building orland situated by a side certain road, street or highway or by any person residing in such a place.

(i) No person shall burn polythene, plastic articles or poisonous chemical in any open placesurface of any house, building or land by a person residing in or owing such a place.

(k) Rearing cattle, goats, swine's, Chicken, ducks, turkeys and other birds against formal standardsimposed by the rules and regulations, ordinance acts, Statutes or conditions in such a mannerthat is a nuisance or detrimental to the public or the health of any person.

(l) Any person, whoever he/she may own a house, building or a parapet wall leaving it in acrumbling state or leaving a house or a building in a state of risk to the persons residing inthem or to the houses and buildings in the neighborhood or to those who reside in them orpassers - by.

(m) Allowing waste or stagnated water to be in a place inside one's place of living or allowingtoilet or cess pit material to overflow or to leak out by any person.

(n) Even though under a license obtained from a relevent authority utilized any place situatedwithin the area of authority of the North Central Province Provincial council for certainworkshop or place of business in a manner detrimental to public health or violating theconditions stated in that license.

(o) No person shall keep or store any drug chemical in a manner so as to be a nuisance to orinjurious to the health of any person.

(p) Anyone making amplifications, broadcasts, or transmits very load sound through soundsystems or television or any other media in any residential area, commercial place or an openplace where there is movement of people in such a manner that it is a hindrance to the public.

(q) Anyone, in a private residence, amplifying, broadcasting, or transmitting very loud soundthrough a sound systems, radio, television or cassette player or any such appliance in sucha manner that is a hindrance to the neighboring residential place in that environment.

(r) Engaging in trade activities, production food items, engaging in technical activities, involvementin industrial work, conducting a industry or acting in such a manner that it generates soundthat is oppressive to residential places, schools, hospitals or other places where people live orwhere there is movement of people or doing any other thing which creates oppressive sound,which is detrimental to public health by any individual in a house or trade place or hostel orrestaurant in any environment.

When deciding the sound levels for the sub clauses, (o), (p) and (q) sound limits imposed bythe National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subsequent amendments to the said act.

(s) Carrying out unauthorized construction, repairing motor vehicles or machinery or storing,depositing or putting building materials, damaged materials or timber or sown wood or any

Open Burring ofpolythene, Plasticarticles orpoisonous chemicalsan offence

Storing of anydrugs, chemicals andgases to be nuisance.

Creating hidrancethrough radio orany other media.

Keeping a placeunclean

Rearing animalssuch as cattle, goats,pigs etc.

Leaving houses etc.in a dilapidated stateor to dilapidation.

Allowing waste orstagnated water tostagnate further.

Keeping a workshopin such a mannerthat it isdetrimental topublic health.

Oppressions createdthrough sound.

Engaging in tradeactivities in amanner thatgenerates sound.

Obstructing drainsand roads

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20184 A

type of material by any individual on the main roads, streets, high ways, foot paths, sidewalks,or drain maintained in relation to the roads in a manner that obstruct them.

(t) putting or allowing to flow waste water or toilet and/ or urinal waste that is deposed from anyprivate or public premises, by any person, on to a main road, street, highways, foot path, accessroad, or in to a drain of such or a land adjacent to a public place.

(u) Creating on obstacle on a water way that is a natural path of draining of water.

Part IILegal Action

03.(1) Any person who ever he/ she may, engaging in any of the offences stated above in subclauses a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, and i of clause will be an offender under this statute.

(2) According the above sub clause 1 any person guilty of any offence, when found guilty aftera summery trail in the presence of a magistrate, the magistrate could order fine of not less thanRupees five Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five Thousand.

(3) The amount imposed as a fine in the clause 3(2) above shall credited to the provincial CouncilFund by the magistrate.

Part IIIIssuing Notices

04.(1) According to the rules and regulations stated under the sub clauses j, k, l, m, n, o, p, q, r, s, t andu of the above clause 2. On the occasion if the relevant officer or the authorized officer findsthat in any premises or anything that is kept or being maintained there is detrimental to thepublic health then the relevant officer or the authorized officer cloud order through a writtennotice to the owner or the resident or the caretaker of that premises to follow or take one ormore of the steps stated in that written notice within the period started specifically in thatnotice.

(a) To maintaining cleanly a house, building or land located in any street, highway or public roador in the neighborhood of such a place in such a manner that it is not detrimental to the healthof any person.

(b) To remove from that place a moat, a gutter, a drain, a pit, and cesspit or any such thing or avessel which emits bad adour that is detrimental to public health or arranging such a place ina manner that is not oppressive to the public.

(c) to rear cattle, goats, pigs, ducks, turkeys, or other birds in such a mannner that is notdetrimental to public health.

(d) To arrange or remove a dilapidated house, building or parapet wall so that it will not be adanger to the residents or the neighbors.

(e) To remove or not construct any fence, parapet wall, concrete or iron covering on any street,road, path or public drain, in a manner obstructing that street, road path or drain.

(f) To avoid allowing waste or polluted water to stagnate in any place within the place by anyresiding in that place or stop the material in a toilet or a cesspit overflowing or leaking out.

Ability to impose afine for someoffences shownunde clause 2.

Ability to order totake some actionrelevant to avoidhindrance to publichealth.

Allowing wastewater and toiletwater to flow

Obstacle on awater way

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

(g) To take appropriate steps to maintain the functioning of any workshop or business placewithout being oppressive to public health.

(h) To keep any article, metrical or liquid in a manner that it will not be oppressive or hindranceto public health.

(i) To stop broadcast, transmits, or amplifying with high sound, through a sound system,television or any other electronic media, in an open place where people move about or in aplace of business, in a manner that it is oppressive to the public.

(j) To stop broadcasting or transmitting or amplifying sound through a sound system, radio,television or CD player or any such appliance with high sound within any private residentialplace which is oppressive to neighboring residential places of that premises.

(k) To not engage in trade activities, poduction of food, engage in industrial activities, doingworkshop work or conducting an industry, which generates oppressive sound to residentialplace, school, hospital or other places where people live or move about or stop such otheractivity that generates any oppressive sound.

(l) To remove any unauthorized construction that obstructs a main road, road, foot path, sidewalk,or a drain maintained in relation to a road, or not store or deposit or place building material,damaged material, block of wood or sown wood or timber or not to carryout repairing ofmotor vehicles and machinery.

(m) To not put or allow over following of waste water or toilet or urinal wastes discharged fromany private or public premises on to any main road, road, foot path, entry road or the drain inthat road or public place or adjoining land.

(n) Not to create obstruction or to remove obstruction to the flow of water along the naturalwaterway that is there to allow water to flow.

Part IVPenalty and charges for non-compliance

(2) As per above stated sub clause 1 of clause 4 of this statute, any person who violating theorders or neglecting to comply to the orders of prevent from carrying out or remove or stopcertain nuisance or thing which is detrimental to public health shall be an offender thisstatute.

(3) Any person who is guilty of an offence according to the above sub clause 2 will be subjectedto a punishment under clause 8 of this statute.

Part VOffences of mosquito breeding places

05. Owner / resident and or caretaker of every premises should take the following actions to assurethe actions of preventing and removing all diseases bred by mosquitos and destroying andremoving the breeding places of mosquitos.

(1) To remover destroy open tins, bottles, boxes, coconut shells, coconut hucks, tire or othermaterial or vessel containing water, which are contained in or within certain premises, ordispose them usefully and safely in any other way in a manner water will not stagnate.

(2) Removing all obstacles so that water could flow well in rain gutters, gutters, and pipes, throughwhich water flows or drains.

Noncompliance toorders stipulatedunder sub clause4(i) being anoffence.

Process ofpreventing diseasesand oppressionsspread bymosquitoes.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20186 A

(3) Maintaining in a good state the water vessels, water tanks, refrigerators, air conditioners, orany other vessels in which water is stored or stagnated by keeping them closed or covered inorder to prevent breeding of mosquitoes.

(4) By maintaining any water well situated in the premises and its surrounding in a good state,maintaining it in manner that mosquitoes cannot breed and through this preventing breedingof mosquitoes.

(5) Keeping any artificial pond, water reservoir or pound in any premises in a manner thosemosquitoes.

(6) Removing the shrubs and plants that is congenial for water to stagnate in a manner thatmosquitoes could breed and any thicket and all kinds of plants that have become a place forwater to stagnate in a place whether it is situated inside or outside of any building of structurethat is located in any premises used as a residential place or suitably removing that denger.

(7) Removing or preventing any other background within or inside the premises that is congenialfor breeding of mosquitoes.

(8) In a premise where construction is being carried out, maintaining that premises in a mannerthat mosquitoes will not breed there and in buildings that are with a concrete roof, that roofshould be maintained in such a manner that in no way water should stagnate on it.

(9) Maintaining without cavities by sealing water drainage pits or septic tanks of a premise so asmosquitoes breeding therein cannot come out, or prevent from using iron or P.V.C. pipes onthoes pits that allow harmful air to emit.

Part VISpot Fine

06.(1) In any premises started in the above sub clauses 1 of clause 5, on occation when the releventofficer or the authorized officer finds that mosquito larvae have been bred within thatenvironment in open tin , bottle, box, cocunut shell, cocunut husks or any other article orarticle where water is stagnated, when the owner, resident or caretaker of the place where theoffence has taken place accepts that offence, then on his wish instead of filling chargers in thepresence of a magistrate, the authorized officer could impose a spot fine of not less thanRupees Five hundred and not more than Rupee Three Thousand in the presence of anyGovernment officer. The owner or the resident of that place should remove or destroy thevessel or the article that is full of water which contains or not contains mosquito larva, in thepresence of the relevent officer or the authorized officer.

(1) The spot fine stated in 6(1) should be paid to a government post office situated in the authorityarea of the North Central Provincial Council and receipt should be obtained and that receiptshoul be submitted to the health Officer of that division within 10 days. If it is not carried out,it is compulsory to file legal action against him / her in a magistrate court.

(2) The spot fine stated in 6(1) should be paid to the General Fund of the North Central ProvinceProvincial Council.

(3) Those who do not adhere to the oder stated in the above sub clause 1 of the clause 5 and theplaces shown by the sub clauses 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 the owners or residents of all premises,where breeding of mosquito larva is allowed and where mosquito larva have beem bred, bepresented to the magistrate court of that division and filling action is compulsory according tothe clause 8 of this statute.

Ability toimpose a spotfine on theoccasion offinding thatthere aremosquito larvae.

Legal action maybe taken fordefaulted spotpine payments.

7 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

Part VIIOrder for Prevention Public nuisance.

07.According to the rules and regulations stated in the above clause 5, on the occasion when therelevent authority or the authorized officer finds that in any premises or anything that has beenkept there or maintained there is congenial to breeding of mosquitos, the relevent authority orauthorized office could order the owner, resident or caretaker through a written notice to followor to take mecessary action on, within the specifically stated period in that notice, one or moreof the following actions.

(1) To repair so as to properly let water to flow in rain gutters, pipes or drains, located within thecertain premises or certain building contained therein and are filled with water making thoseplaces congenial to breeding of mosquitoes.

(2) To maintained in good condition the water vessel or a tank to collect rain water, water tank,refrigerator, air conditioner or any other vessel for collecting water in certain premises bykeeping it closed and convered and to construct or repair so that the water in it could bedisposed from time to time.

(3) Removing the water from a tank that collects rain water, water tank or a artificial pond orreservoir, in any premises cleaning them, and when they are not used anymore, to close them bythe owner or the resident.

(4) To maintain any water well in the environment in such manner to prevent of mosquitoes.

(5) To fill up any excavation pit that allows collection of water and pollute it, unused water well,cesspit, pond or any other place, moving the water from them or take other suitable action for it.

(6) To remove the water from marshy land, water courses and places where water stagnates in anypremises or removing the danger by biological methods.

(7) To remove, pluck off and destroy water plants or any other plant or plants that could hold waterthat have been found to facilitate breeding of mosquitoes.

(8) To maintain a premise where construction is in progress or the buildings with concrete roof insuch a manner that water will not stagnate to breed mosquitoes.

(9) Maintaining without cavities by sealing water drainage pits or septic tanks of premises so asmosquitoes breeding therein cannot come out, or prevent from fixing iron or P.V.C. pipes on theconcrete slabs that cover those pits.

(10) To take any other steps those are considered necessary by the authority or authorized officer.

Part VIIIPenalty and Charges for non-compliance

08.(1) Any person who does the offence shown under the clause 2 of this statute or violates anyoder to oders, imposed by the 5th clause of this statute or violates the order made accordingto the clause 4 and or 7 or neglects to act accordingly to it, or any person stated in sub clause4 of clause 6 is guilty of an offence under this statute.

(2) Any person, who is accused of any offence according to the above sub clause (1), after asummery trail in the presence of a magistrate, when found guilty of the offence, is subject to apunishment as started below.

Ability to orderthe owner orresident to takespecific action.

Not actingaccording to theoders imposed byclauses 4, 5 and 7is an offence.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.20188 A

(a) If that offence is done for the first time the magistrate could impose a fine of not less thanRupees Three Thousand and not more than Rupees Five Twenty Five thousand or notmore than 06 months light imprisonment or both punishments stated above.

(b) If the offence is done for the second time or after that the magistrate could impose a fine ofnot less than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty Thousand or animprisonment not more than 06 months or both punishments shown above.

(3) Every person engaged in an offence under the sub clause (1), in the event of carrying out thesame offence even after the specific numbr of days allotted in the announcement made by theauthorized officer from the date of revelation of that offence, apart from the penalties mentionedin sub clause (2), shall be subjected to an additional penalty of rupees two hundred (Rs. 200) foreach day that offence is continued.

(4) In addition to the imposement of the penalty stated in sub clause 8(2), when convicted onneglecting to act in accordance with a task assigned under clause 7 of this statute, the owneroccupier or caretaker of that premises may be ordered by the magistrate to comply to the odersgiven by the authorized officer and to act according to the said tasks in under to preventactions detrimental to public health.

Part IXIssuing Orders by authorized officer and relevant authority

09.An owner, occupier or any person who has been issued with a written notice under clauses 4and 7 of this statute, on the occasion neglecting to act in compliance to orders specified in thatnotice or not taking action as per such orders within the time period allotted in that Notice, or inan instance an caretaker cannot or difficult to be identified definitely, if the authority or hisauthorized officer decides that the public nuisance should be removed immediately, the followingmeasures may be taken.

(1) Removing that public health nuisance, through the actions desided by the relevant authority,under the supervision of the relevant authority or the authorized officer.

(2) Money spent as expences incurred for removing that public health nuisance or takingneccessary steps should be paid by the owner or resident or relevant person of that premisesand according to the voucher given indicating that amount, that amount should be paid within03 working days, The receipt thus obtained should be submitted to the office of the MedicalOfficer of Health where that premises is located.

(3) On the occasion that amount of money is not paid within the specified period and in the propermanner a low suit should be filed in relevant magistrate court against that person or owner orresident.

(4) On occation when neglected the payment of money under sub clause (3) of clause 9, a certificatecontaining the details about the amount of money that should be levied as expences incurredon fulfilling that duty or tasking steps should be submitted by the ralevant authority orauthorized officer to the magistrate holding jurisdiction of that division. The magistrate couldoder to pay that amount of money stated in that certificate after a summery trail on leavying thatamount of money.

(5) During the legal action relevant to above clause 3, when the relevant person is found guiltyaccording to clause 8(2) that person is livable to pay in addition to the applicable fine forcreating a public health nuisance and the cost nuisance and the cost of the steps taken by therelevant authority or the representative of the relevant authority remove that nuisance and afine of 50% of the total amount of the file.

Relevantauhority shouldget work done ortake action.

Reimubursingexpensesincurred asexpenditureunder clause 9.

9 AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

(6) Any amount of money imposed as fine under the sub clause 8(2), the amount of money imposedas an additional fine under sub clause 8(3) and the amount of money imposed as an additionalfine under clause 9(5) should be remitted to the Provincial Council Fund by the magistrate.

10.(1) By the written notice sent, by the authority or authorized person, to the owner or resident orany relevant person of any premises, that owner or resident could be ordered to spray, on theadvice of the relevant authority, the pestiside or biological control method stated in that noticewithin the stated period on any pond, water vessel, reservior or any other place, which isfound to gather water and promotes public health nuisance.

(2) Every person who neglects to take action, within the stipulated period, according to the noticeissued as stated in the above sub clause (1) will be guilty of an offence under this stature andon such an occation that person will be subject to the punishment stated under the sub clause8 (2).

11.(1) A person vested with the authority to carry out or fulfill the work or duties of the relevantauthority or authorized officer under this statute, when that person carries out or fulfills thatwork or duty lawfully, any owner, resident or any other person knowingly or willfully shouldnot show objection or obstruct the relevant authority or authorized officer or another personvested with such authority.

(2) Any owner, resident or any other person who acts by violating the rules and regulations of thesub clause (1) of this clause will guilty of an offence under this statute and convicted as guiltyafter a summery trail conducted in the presence of a magistrate should be subjected to fine ofnot less than Rupees Ten Thousand and not more than Rupees Fifty Thousand or imprisonmentfor a period not more than six (6) months or both fine and imprisonment.

Part XLegal Action for Neglect Order of Authorized Offices

12.(1) The owner resident or any other person should not knowingly or willfully take any situationalaction that will make way to,

(a) Incomplete any step taken to prevent breeding of mosquitoes that is being carried out orfollowed in any premises or

(b) Reduce the efficiency of any step taken to prevent any public health nuisance that isbeing carried out or followed in any premises.

(2) Any owner, resident or any other person who acts by violating the rules and regulations of thesub clause (1) will become guilty of an offence under this statute and convicted as guilty aftera summery trail conducted in the presence of a magistrates should be subjected to fine of notless than Rupees Five Thousand and not more than Rupees Twenty Five Thousand.

(3) In addition to the penalty stated in above sub clause (2), the magistrate order the action carriedout or action taken to reduce efficiency be ameliorated.

13.(1) In any premises when more than one person is resident or any property is jointly owned bymore than one person to enforce the rules and regulations of this statute, acting or neglectingaccording to the orders imposed by this statute or under it, each such resident and each ownershould be subjected separately to the responsibility.

14.(1) Any drain, stream, waterway or marshy land, cemetery, garbage disposal place or any land,entrusted to be maintained properly by any local government, institution situated within the

Sprayingpesticides.

Opposing orobstructing therelevantauthority andsuch persons.

Decreasing theefficiency of anysteps taken.

CO-owners andCO-residentsshould besubjectedseperately.

When the localgovernmentinstitutions, etc

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.201810A

administrative limits of North Central Province Council or road Development authority or theProvincial road Development Authority or urban Development Authority or low landDevelopment Board or any other authority or institution in the event it is found to havebecome a place congenial for breeding of mosquitoes due to neglected or delay in properlymaintaining it by the said institution, the relevant authority has the power to issue order he /she considers necessary or appropriate to correct that situation and prevent breeding ofmosquitoes.

(2) If there is any local government institution or Road Development Authority or provincial RoadDevelopment Authority or Urban Development Authority or Lowland Development Board orany other aithority or institution that neglects to take action according to any order issued subclause (1), it is guilty of an offence under this statute and the relevant authority should file alaw suit against that institution or should file legal action against any other authority appointedto act on behalf of that institution under any low applicable to institutions.

Part XIPower to entry of Premises

15.Under this statute, the relevant authority or authorized officer or an officer vested with powerby the relevant authority is empowered to entry any premises at an ordinary time.

(1) To examine or inspect nuisances to public health or other nuisances in this statute.

(2) The relevant authority or authorized officer or an officer vested with power by the relevantauthority is empowered to examine or inspect whether the action has been taken according tothe written instruction given to the resident or the owner.

Part XIIPower of relevant authority

16.(1) On any occasion considered to be necessary or appreciate by the relevant authority, toimplement or fulfill any work or duty assigned to him / her under this statute, authority couldbe vested on the Director of Divisional Health Services of the North Central Province and if thework or duty assigned to any officer, that work and duty should be fulfilled by that officerunder the control and supervision of the relevant authority.

(2) Orders considered neccessary in relation to the rules and regulations of this statute and theorder made under them by the relevent authority could be carried out by the Director ofDivisional Health Services or a Medical officer of Health or the Provincial AdministrativePublic Health Inspector or District Administrative public Health Inspector and every officerwho has received such oder should act accordingly to them.

(3) Any officer who has been vested with the authority under the sub clause (1) of this clause,when carrying out and fulfilling the work and duty so vested on him / her, should implementthe authority of entering and inspecting in the same manner as provided to the relevantauthority unde the clause 15 of this statute and any obstruction made to that officer will be anoffence under the clause 12 of this statute.

17.Whatever contradiction stated in the code of criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, everyoffence under this statute should be considered as a symbolic offence for the interpretation ofthat Act and its function.

Authority toentre andaxamine.

Assigning thepowers of therelevantauthority.

Issuing orders bythe relevantauthority.

entrusted withthe maintenanceof drains, canalsetc, failed tomaintain themthey should beissued with anorder.

An offenceshould be offencesymbolic.

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

18.Under the code of criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, for the matter of implementing theauthoity vested on all officers when fulfilling that work or duty by the relevant authority orauthorized officer and any other person who has been assigned his/ her work and duty,according to the meaning of the code of criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, should beconsidered as peace officers.

19.Under this statute, if a certain person is committing the offence the notice to be handed overto that person could be personally handed over to him / her or to any other person residing inthat premises or by pasting it in a place where it could be obviously seen, or by making it to bereceived through Registered post.

Part XIIILegal Action

20.A prosecution for an offence under this statute or any regulations made there under shall notbe instituted.

(a) Except by an Authority Officers, and

(b) after the expiration of a period of three months from the date of detection of that offence.

Part XIVRegulation

21. North Central Province minister in charge of the subject could complie rules in relation to thefollowing matters.

(1)(a)In relation to disposal of dust, ash, rubbish, dirt, fertilizer, animal, waste and faeces,carcases kept collected in any place by the owner of any premises or resident or theowner of any animal and in relation to avoid keeping such things collected, in a streetor on the side of a street sin a manner that it becomes on oppression to any person.

(b) For cleaning, covering or filling such places likes ponds, water courses, open ditchesdrains, and letting to run water having or used to collect unclean water or things thatcould be uncongenial to health.

(c)For purifying, cleaning, providing ventilation to and disinfecting houses, buildings,religious places, any public place and places where people gather by the owners orresidents of any premises and those who are responsible for the safety of that premises.

(d) For avoiding and eradicating epidemics, situational diseases or contagious diseasesspread by touching.

(e)Formats that should be used for the purpose of oders complied under this statute andformat used when filling a lawsuit at the court of law by the relevent officer or authorizedofficer.

(f)Action that should be taken and the pestiside that should be used by the owner orresident of any premises to avoid public health nuisances.

(g) Issuing guidelines for the eradication of disease spread through mosquitoes to avoidpublic health nuisances.

RelevantAuthority andsuch othersshould be peaceauthorities.

Handing over thenotice.

Institution ofproceedings.

Rules.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.201812A

(h) In relation to a penalty ordered by the court of law regarding an offence under thisstatute, awarding to the authorized officer or officers who discovered the offence acertain amount of the penalty levied as an incentive.

(i)In relation to any other matter necessary for the implementation of the rules andregulations of this statute.

(2)Every rule that is made by the minister should be punished in the Gazette and they should beimplemented from the date of publishing or from the date stated in that order.

(3)Every Rule that is made by the minister, after publishing in the Gazette, should be presentedto the North Central Province Council for approval as soon as possible.

(4)Any rule that is not so approved should be considered as invalid from the date of thatannulment, but there should not be any prejudice for anything that has been done earlierunder it.

(5)The date of any rule that is considered as made invalid should be published in the Gazette.

22. The authority to carry out any work or duty assigned to the relevant authority under this statute,when it is assigned to certain authorized officer under the sub clause (2) of the clause 16 of thisstatute, according to the situation, in relation to any action, with good intention, carried out orassumed to be carried out by that Authorized officer, no civil or criminal action should be taken in thecourt against that Authorized officer.

23. Assisting in the actions taken under this statute to avoid public health nuisance is the responsibilityof all government officers incliding the police, civil security Task Force, Grama Niladhari and Localgovernment Institution's.

24. For the work of this statute the Director the Director of provincial Health services should be therelevant authority and he / she should take the responsibility to apply the rules and regulations ofthis statute fruitfully.

25. The implementation of the work, duties and authority of this statute should be carried out by therelevant authority under the direction and supervision of the secretary to the ministry.

Part XVAuthorized Officers

26.(1) At any occasion when the relevant authority consideres necessary and suitable, to implementor fulfill any work for duty assigned to him / her under this statute, authorized officers could beappointed under the control and supervision of the relevant authority.

(2) Under the above sub clause the authorized officers should be Directors of Divisional HealthServices, Medical officers of Health, Provincial Administrative public health inspectors, Districtadministrative public health inspectors, Administrative public health inspectors of the officesof the medical officer of Health of the North Central Province, chief public Health Inspectors ofthe relevant Local Government Institutions of the North Central Province and all other publicHealth Inspectors. These authorized officers should be the Authorized officers only in theirduty area under this statute.

27. If there is any contradiction among the Sinhala, Tamil, and English versions of this statute, then theSinhala version should enforced.

28. Unless an interpretation becomes necessary in relation to terms in this statute:

Security forbona-fide acts.

Officers of publicservice toprovideassistance.

RelevantAuthority.

Authorizedofficers.

Sinhala version isvalid when thereis contradiction.

Interpretation.

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.2018

''Minister''

Means the Minister in charge of the subject of Health in the North Central Province Council.

''Secretary to the Ministry''

Means the Secretary to Ministry in charge of the subject Health in the North Central Province.

''Director of Provincial Health Services''

Means the Director of Health Services, North Central Province or any person appointed to performthe duties of that post or to cover the duties or to fulfill the duties.

''Director of Divisional Health Services''

Means the Directors of Divisional Health Services of the, North Central Province Provincial CouncilDepartment of Health Services appointed for the Districts in the North Central Province or the officerappointed to perform the duties of that post or to cover the duties or to fulfill the duties.

''Medical Officer of Health''

Means an Officer appointed to the post of Medical officer of Health to the North Central ProvinceDepartment of Health Services or an officer appointed to perform in that post or cover the duties orto fulfill the duties and Chief Medical Officer of Health or Medical officer of Health serving within theadministrative limits or any municipality or in that municipality.

''Provisional Administrative public Health inspector''

Means an Officer appointed, to the post of Provincial Administrative Public Health Inspector of theNorth Central Provisional Department of Health Services or to perform the duties of that post orcover the duties or fulfill the duties.

''District Public Health Inspector''

Means an Officer appointed, to the post of administrative public Health inspector in medical officerof Health functioning under the North Central Province Provincial Department of Health services orto perform the duties of that post or cover the duties or fulfill the duties.

''Chief Public Health Inspector''

Means an Officer appointed, to the post of Chief Public Health Inspector of a Local Governmentinstitution of the North Central Province or to perform the duties of that post of cover the duties orfulfill the duties.

''Public Health Inspector''

Means an Officer appointed, to the post of or to perform the duties of that post or cover the dutiesor fulfill the duties of the Public Health Inspector of the North Central Province Provincial Departmentof Health Services.

''Resident''

Means a, Person, who on his/ her behalf or as a representative of another person, is holding thecustody, management or control of a premises or residing in that premises.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'03PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.03.201814A

''Owner''

Means any Person who is the owner, lessee or having some ownership to receive the rent or produceof that premises or any person, institution, corporation, or office holding the responsibility ofproperly maintaining that premises.

''Caretaker''

Means a Person holding custody, management or control of curtain premises as a representative oremployee of certain person or oppointed by the court of law as a holder of power of attorney to thatpremises or on behalf of a minor.

''Person''

Means any individual or any institution or a private board.

''Public Nuisance''

Certain Nuisance caused through water pollution, soil pollution, and loud sound or by any otheractivity, conducted by the man himself in a manner obstructing better maintains of physical,psychological, economic and social conditions of human beings in public Nuisance.

''Premises''

Means any land and any building situated on it or a part of that building.

''Article''

Means certain thing made up from anything including glass, metal, wood, plastic, fiber or rubberwhich cannot be used or consumed yet, can become a threat to the health of certain person.

03 - 745

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.