==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1956$16 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 01 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'03'01No. 1956/16 - TUESDAY MARCH 01, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

THE SERVICE MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCATION ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE -AMENDMENT No. 1

THE Public Service Commission has declared that the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service,published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1928/28 of 21st August 2015 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka, be amended as follows :

H. M. GAMINI SENEVIRATHNA,Secretary,Public Service Commission.

01st of March 2016.

7.2.1.1 (a)is hereby amended as follows :

a.Recruitement to the General Cadre

Must hold a degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or aninstitution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution.

7.2.1.1 (b)is hereby amended as follows :

b.Recruitment to the Special Cadre(Information Technology and Bio-systems Technology)

Must hold a degree in the prescribed subject in respect of the subjects of Information Technology andBio-systems Technology from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or aninstituion recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution.

7.2.1.1 (c)is hereby amended as follows :

c.Recruitment to the Special Cadre(Engineering Technology Subject)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'01PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.03.20162A

Must hold and engineering degree in any of the fields of Mechanical, Construction, Electrical andElectronic from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognizedby the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institution or the four-year Higher NationalDiploma in Engineering (HNDE) awarded by the Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technology or thefour-year Diploma in Engineering Science (NDES) awarded by the Institute of Engineering Technology,Katunayake.

7.3.2.1(a)(i)is hereby amended as follows :

(a)General Cadre

Educational qualifications

(i)Must be teacher holding a degree obtained from a university recognized by the University GrantsCommission or an institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awardinginstitution or National Institute of Education.

7.3.2.1(b)(i)is hereby amended as follows :

(b)Special Cadre

(i)Educational Qualifications

Must be a teacher holding a degree in the prescribed subject, obtained from a university recognized bythe University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants Commission asa degree awarding institution or National Institute of Education.

Line 15 of Schedule b titled “technology” (including Bio-systems Technology and Engineering Technology) is amendedas follows :

Subject AreaQualifications for Recruitment

15.Technology

(i)Bio-systems TechnologyHolding a degree in Agricultural Science or the Trained Teacher’s Certificateor the National Diploma in Teaching in Home Science, Agricultural Science,Handicraft and Life Skills.

(ii)Engineering TechnologyA degree in Technology obtained from a recognized university or an institutionrecognized by the University Grants Commission as a degree awarding institutionfor the subject of Engineering Technology or an Engineering Degree in any ofthe fields of Mechanical, Construction, Electrical and Electronic obtained froma recognized university or an institution recognized by the University GrantsCommission as a degree awarding institution or the four-year Higher NationalDiploma in Engineering (HNDE) awarded by the Sri Lanka Institution ofAdvanced Technology or the three-year National Diploma in Technology (NDT)awarded by the University of Moratuwa or the four-year Diploma in EngineeringScience awarded by the Institute of Engineering Technology, Katunayake or theDiploma in Technology (DT) awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka orthe Higher Diploma awarded by the institutes approved by the Tertiary andVocational Education Commission of Sri Lanka, which is equivalent to Level 6of the National Vocational Qualifications (NVQ Level 6)

03-426

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.