w;s úfYI

wxl 2421$54 - 2025 fmnrjdß ui 01 jeks fikiqrdod - 2025.02.01No. 2421/54 - saturday, february 01, 2025

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A- PG 7016 - 204 (02/2025) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L.D.-B 1/2009 (ii)

Paddy Marketing Board Act, No. 14 of 1971

Order under subsection (1) of Section 61

WHEREAS the Paddy Marketing Board Act, No. 14 of 1971 make provisions to establish the Paddy Marketing Board (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) to carry on the business as purchaser, seller, supplier, distributor, huller, miller or processor of paddy and rice and makes no provision to regulate the stockpiling of paddy and rice:

And whereas the provisions are required to be made to enable the Board to regulate the stockpiling of paddy for the purpose of effectively exercising, performing and discharging its powers, functions and duties under the Paddy Marketing Board Act, No. 14 of 1971:

Now Therefore by virtue of the powers vested in me by subsection (1) of section 61 of the Paddy Marketing Board Act, No. 14 of 1971, I, Kuragamage Don Lal Kantha, the Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, Lands and Irrigation, do by this Order, direct as follows:-

(a) any person who has in his possession, custody or control any paddy in any ware house, silo, store, container or any other place on the date of coming into operation of this Order or has obtained a Permit in terms of the provisions of the Special Direction No. 79 published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2231/23 dated June 11, 2021 under sub-

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.20252A

paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 10 of the Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003 on or before the date of coming into operation of this Order, or any person who intends to carry on the stockpiling of paddy from and after the date of coming into operation of this Order shall register with the Board to carry on the business of stockpiling of paddy, not later than two months from the date of coming into operation of this Order:

Provided however, the preceding provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to a producer of paddy who keeps a stock of paddy from his own cultivation:

Provided further, a producer of paddy who keeps a stock of paddy from his own cultivation shall provide the

Board, with such information in relation to the area wherein the paddy is cultivated, variety of paddy cultivated, and amount of paddy stock in his possession or custody, as and when required by the Board;

(b) any person who intends to register under paragraph (a) shall make an application to the Board in the form as specified in Schedule I, with certified copies of the documents specified in the Form of the application, and accompanied by a fee determined on the basis of stock capacity as specified in Schedule II;

(c) the Board may, upon receipt of an application for a permit and on being satisfied with the qualifications of the applicant, issue the permit in the form as specified in Schedule III. Such permit shall be subjected to such conditions as specified in Schedule IV and, unless cancelled earlier by the Board, be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance;

(d) where the Board refuses to issue a permit, the Board shall inform the applicant the reasons for such refusal and cause the permit fee to be reimbursed to the applicant;

(e) any person issued with a permit under paragraph (c) shall facilitate the Chairman of the Board, or any officer of the Board authorized by the Chairman, at any reasonable time of the day, to enter any ware house, silo, store, container or any other place wherein the stockpiling of paddy is carried on and allow to inspect the records of paddy collections, accounts and other documents. The person issued with a permit shall provide with such officers, copies or extracts of such documents, where necessary.

Kuragamage Don Lal Kantha, Minister of Agriculture, Livestock, Lands and Irrigation.Battaramulla,31st of January 2025.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025

3A

Schedule I

Application for Obtaining a Permit for Stockpiling of Paddy

*Strike off unnecessary words

Reciept No. on which payment was madeAmount paid (Rs.)

A. Basic information

1. Full Name of the ApplicantIn Sinhala/TamilIn EnglishAddress of the Applicant

National Identity Card No.

Telephone No.:Fax No.:E- Mail Address:

Mobile

Fixed

2. Nature of Business (Mark with X in the relevant box)(a) Individual Business(b) Partnership

(c) Company(d) Co-operative

(e) Farmer Association(f) Public Institution

(g) Other

B. Business Information

3.(a) Name of Business(b) Business Registration No.4.(a) Name(s) of the owner(s) of the premises where stockpiling of paddy is carried on(b) If premises for stockpiling of paddy has been obtained on lease basis attach copies of the lease agreements5.In which capacity does the applicant carry on stockpiling of paddy? (Mark with X in the relevant box)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.20254A

(b) Store keeper

(d) Broker

(f) Miller / Processor

(h) Other (Please, specify)

(a) Collector

(c) Distributor/Transporter

(e) Paddy Buyer

(g) Wholesaler

C. Information that must be completed by prospective applicants for obtaining a permit for stockpiling of paddy

6. Information relating to the premises within which stockpiling of paddy is carried on

(a) The manner of stockpilingAmountTotal capacity (MT)

BuildingSiloContainerwarehouseOther

(b) Address of the premises

Telephone No.Assessment No.

Grama NiladhariDivisionD.S.Division

District

(b) Name of the nearest city to the premises within which the stockpiling of paddy is carried on , the distance (in kilometers) from the city to the relevant premises and the travel route

7.Specification of the building, if the stockpiling of paddy is carried on within a building.

Storage capacity (MT)

Floor area (m2) m

Height of the warehouse floor from the ground level (cm)

Average height of side walls (m)

Underline the correct information regarding the following points. If other, please specify

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025

5A

8.

Floor of the warehouse has been made from cement/ floor tile/other

Walls have been made from cement / tin sheets / otherRoof has been made from roofing tile / asbestos/otherAmount of entrance doors

Lorries can be/ cannot be entered into the warehouseYear of the warehouse was built

Whether the warehouse has been insured?

If yes, please attach a copy of the Insurance Policy.

If the stockpiling of paddy is carried on within a warehouse, silo or container, specifications thereof:

Amount'

Storage capacity (MT)

Made from cement/ sheet/ metal/ polythene/ plastic/other (please specify)

9.Capacity of drying machine, if any (MT)

10.If an Environmental License is available, please provide its number and validity period (Attach a copy)11Number and types of existing weighing scales

Electricity facilities (Please Indicate : Available/Not available)Water facilities (Please indicate : Available/Not Available)Fire extingusihers (Please indicate: Available/Not Available)Please specify if any other equipment used for stockpiling of paddy12Details of the staff of center for stockpiling of paddy

I hereby declare that the information provided above is true and accurate.

Date : ......................................................, Signature of the Applicant and Official Seal.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.20256A

Schedule II

Capacity for stockpiling of paddy per year (Metric Ton)Annual Permit fee Rs.Up to 1002,500 0Exceeding 100 but not exceeding 5005,000 0Exceeding 500 but not exceeding 1,000 7,500 0Exceeding 1,000 but not exceeding 5,00010,000 0Exceeding 5,000 but not exceeding 10,00012,500 0Exceeding 10,000 but not exceeding 50,00015,000 0Exceeding 50,000 but not exceeding 100,00020,000 0Exceeding 100,00050,000 0

Schedule III

Paddy Stockpiling Permit Issued Under Section 61 (1) of the Paddy Marketing Board Act, No. 14 of 1979

Permit No.

1. Name of the Permit Holder:2. Address of the Permit Holder:3. N. I. C. No. of the Permit Holder:4. Address of the Location (s) where stockpiling of Paddy is Carried on:5. Storage Capacity:6. Permit Fee (Rs.) :7. Validity Period of the Permit :

(a) Starting Date : (b) Ending Date :

The permit has been issued to the applicant at the locations mentioned above for the stockpiling of paddy as a business, after considering the application dated ................ and the payment receipt No. ........................ dated ..................., submitted by the applicant. This permit is granted subject to specific conditions, and the permit holder is bound to operate in accordance with such conditions.

Issued under the authority of the Paddy Marketing Board.

.....................................,Issuing OfficerOfficial Stamp.

Date :Address :At Paddy Marketing Board.

Schedule IV

Terms and Conditions of the Permit

1. The permit shall not be transferable to any other person and shall not be used for benefit of any person other than the person for whom it was issued.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'01Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2025

7A

2. Every permit holder shall exhibit the permit issued to him under this Act in a conspicuous position in his place of business.

3. The permit holder shall not, without the prior approval of the Board sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any interest in the business covered by this permit, or enter into any agreement with regard to that business with any other person whereby such other person requires a proprietary interest in such business.

4. In the event of loss of permit, a certified copy thereof shall be issued by the Board on submission of an affidavit by the permit holder, attested by a Commissioner of Oath or a Justice of Peace, confirming the loss and on payment of half the permit fee.

5. Every permit holder who ceases to carry on business for which the permit has been issued or who changes his place of business shall forthwith notify the Board of that fact.

6. A permit issued to an individual shall cease on the death of the permit holder. In instance where an individual mean a body of persons the permit shall cease forthwith on the dissolution of that body of persons.

7. All notices relating to this permit shall be deemed to have been duly served on the permit holder if such notices are sent by post or are delivered to the person for the time being in charge of the place of business or sent to the e-mail of the permit holder.

8. The permit holder shall, without delay, adhere to all instructions that may be issued to him from time to time by an authorized officer of the Board on carry on his business of stockpiling of paddy. The instructions referred to above, among other facts, include the manner in which stockpiling is carried on and matters incidental thereto and restructuring or repairing of any part of his premises.

9. The permit holder shall maintain proper records, registers and account books on his business and submit the same at all reasonable times to be inspected by any authorized officer of the Board. Further the permit holder shall facilitate such officer to obtain copies or extracts thereof as may be necessary.

10. In addition to reports, registers and account book referred to above, the permit holder shall maintain further reports, registers and account books as may be required from time to time by any authorized officer of the Board and submit the same at all reasonable times for inspection by such officer.

11. The permit holder shall submit proper reports and statistics on stock position of the place of business, for which this permit is issued, within the time frame as may be directed from time to time by any authorized officer of the Board.

12. The permit holder shall allow for any authorized officer of the Board to enter at all reasonable times into his premises of business and inspect his business activities or the paddy stored in the premises. He shall submit any information in relating to the relevant books or documents or paddy available at his premises of business.

13. The permit shall be liable for cancellation if information given in the application for permit is found to be false or incorrect.

EOG 02-0001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.