==== BLOCKS ==== 

PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

wxl 2036$28 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 13 jeks nodod - 2017'09'13

No. 2036/28 – WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 2017

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

EXTRAORDINARY

w;s úfYI

Mineral Tax Statute of the Northern Province Provincial Council No. 03 of 2017

NOTICE is hereby given that the Northern Province Provincial Council has adopted the Mineral Tax Statute of the NorthernProvince Provincial Council No. 03 of 2017 on 25th May 2017 and that the Hon. Governor Northern Province has given hisAssent to it on 06th September 2017.

K. THEIVENDRAM,

Secretary,Council SecretariatNorthern Provincial Council.

Council Secretariat,A9 Road,Kaithady,11th September, 2017.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www. documents.gov.lk

1A - PG 3690 - 27 (09/2017)

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'132 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2017

A STATUTE TO IMPOSE A MINERAL TAX ON THE RELEVANT TURNOVER OF ANY PERSON INRESPECT OF EVERY QUARTER OF EVERY YEAR OF ASSESSMENT; AND FOR THE MATTERSCONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Northern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka asfollows:-

1. This Statute shall be cited as the Mineral Tax Statute, No. 03 of 2017 and shall come into operationon such date as the Governor of the Northern Province may give his assent thereto.

2. A Mineral Tax shall, subject to the provisions of this Statute, be charged from every person forevery quarter of every year of assessment commencing from the date on which this Statute comes intooperation (hereinafter in this Statute referred to as "a relevant quarter") in respect of every part of therelevant turnover of such person for that relevant quarter, at the rate of 0.5 per centum.

3. (1) Every person who carries on the business of minerals within the Northern Province shall beliable to pay the Mineral Tax as may be provided in this Statute.

(2) For the purposes of this Statute, "Business" means sales carried on either as wholesale or retailof minerals obtained under the authority of a licence issued under section 28 of the Mines and Minerals Act,No.33 of 1992.

4. Where a person is chargeable with Mineral Tax in respect of any business carried on by him and achange of ownership of that business occurs, then notwithstanding the provisions of section 3 the newowner of that business shall be chargeable with Mineral Tax as though he has been the owner of thatbusiness immediately before the occurence of the change of ownership.

5. (1) The Minister may, if he is of opinion that it is essential for the economic progress of theNorthern Province, exempt by order published in the Gazette any mineral business as may be specified,which is carried on by any person, from the Mineral Tax.

(2) Every Order under subsection (1) shall come into force on the date of its publication in theGazette or on such later date as may be specified in such order and shall be brought before the NorthernProvincial Council within a period of three months from the date of the publication of such Order in theGazette or, if no meeting of the Northern Provincial Council is held within such period, at the first meeting ofthe Northern Provincial Council held after the expiry of such period, by a motion that such Order shall beapproved.

(3) Any Order which the Northern Provincial Council refuses to approve shall, with effect from thedate of such refusal, be deemed to be revoked but without prejudice to the validity of such Order until thedate of such refusal, and the notification of the date on which such Order is deemed to be revoked shall bepublished in the Gazette.

6. For the purpose of this Statute, "Mineral Tax" in relation to any business and to any year ofassessment means the total amount receivable, whether actually received or not, from every transactionentered into in that year of assessment in the course of such business carried on or exercised by any person.

7. Every person chargeable or likely to be chargeable with the Mineral Tax for any relevant quartershall, by communication in writing addressed to the Commissioner, give notice of such chargeability orlikely chargeability, before the fifteenth day of the last month of that relevant quarter.

8. The Mineral Tax which any person is chargeable with for any relevant quarter shall, notwithstandingthat no assessment has been made on such person by an Assessor be paid to the Commissioner on or beforethe fifteenth day of the month immediately succeeding the end of that relevant quarter.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Chargeable withMineral Tax.

A person deemedto be liable toMineral Tax.

Excemptionfrom MineralTax.

Imposition ofMineral Tax.

Turnover.

Notice ofChargeability.

Date on whichMineral Tax is tobe paid.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'133 APART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2017

9. Every person chargeable with the Mineral Tax for any relevant quarter shall, whether or not requiredby an Assessor in that behalf, furnish to an Assessor, on or before the fifteenth day of the month immediatelysucceeding the end of that relevant quarter, a return in such form and containing such particulars as may bespecified by the Commissioner, of his relevant turnover. The return shall also show the basis of the calculationof the Mineral Tax and other details, if any specified by the Commissioner.

10. (1) Where in the opinion of an Assessor, any person who being chargeable with the Mineral Tax forany relevant quarter–

(a) has not paid the Mineral Tax; or

(b) has paid an amount less than the proper amount which such person ought to have paid as

Mineral Tax for such relevant quarter, such Assessor may, assess the amount of the Mineral Taxwhich, in his opinion, ought to have been paid by such person as the Mineral Tax for thatrelevant quarter and shall by notice in writing require such person to forthwith pay –

(i) the amount of the Mineral Tax so assessed for that relevant quarter, if that person has not

paid any Mineral Tax for that relevant quater; or

(ii) the difference between the amount of the Mineral Tax so assessed and the amount of the

Mineral Tax actually paid by such person for that relevant quarter, if such person haspaid any amount as Minieral Tax for that relevant quarter.

(2) The assessor or any authorized person shall have the right to inspect the mining site to assessthe turnover.

11. Every person chargeable with the Mineral Tax shall maintain a record of the transactions of everybusiness carried on by such person, in such manner as would facilitate the reconciliation of the return ofrelevant turnover furnished by such person under Section 9 of this Statute, with such record.

12. (1) Where any Mineral Tax or any part of such Mineral Tax for any relevant quarter is not paid onor before the date specified in Section 8, for the payment of such Mineral Tax, such sum or part thereof shallbe deemed to be in default.

(2) Where the Mineral Tax or part thereof which is in default is payable–

(a) by an individual:

(b) by a partnership;

(c) by a company or body of persons,

then such individual, every partner of such partnership or every director or other principal officer of suchcompany or body of persons as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a defaulter for the purposes of thisStatute.

13. (1) Where any Mineral Tax is in default, the defaulter shall, in addition to such tax in default, payas a penalty–

(a) a sum equivalent to ten per centum of the amount in default; and

(b) where any amount in default is not paid before the fifteenth day of the month succeeding the

month in which such tax has begun to be in default, a further sum equivalent to two percentum of the amount in default in respect of each period ending on the fifteenth day of eachsucceeding month or part of such period during which it is in default :

Furnishing ofreturns.

Assessor to makeassessment incertain cases.

Maintenance ofrecords.

Mineral Tax notpaid deemed tobe in default.

Penalty fordefault.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'09'134 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2017

Provided, however, that the total amount payable as penalty under this subsection shall in no case exceedfifty per centum of the Mineral Tax in default and any such amount may be waived or reduced if theCommissioner is satisfied that by reason of any special circumstances in which the default occurred a waiveror reduction of such amount would be just and equitable.

(2) Where upon the final determination of an appeal under the provisions of Northern ProvinceFinance Statute, No. 1 of 2014, any Mineral Tax in default to which any sum or sums under subsection (1) hasor have been added is reduced then such sum or sums shall be calculated on the Mineral Tax as so reduced.

14. The provisions of Chapters I, VII, IX, X, XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXXIII and XXXIVincluding provisions of Sub sections 10(4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10) of Chapter VI of the Northern ProvinceFinance Statute, No. 1 of 2014, relating respectively to provisions of administration, assessments, finality ofassessment and penalty for incorrect returns, special cases, penalties and offences, general matters, appealsto the Commissioner, appeals to the Board of Review, appeals to the High Court and recovery of tax,miscellaneous and interpretation shall mutatis mutandis, apply respectively to provisions of administration,assessments, finality of assessment and penalty for incorrect returns, special cases, penalties and offences,general matters, appeals to the Commissioner, appeals to the Board of Review, appeals to the High Court andrecovery of tax, miscellaneous and interpretation under this Statute.

15. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires–

"License" means the license issued under Section 28 of the Mines and Mineral Act, No. 33 of 1992;

"Minerals" means including sand a naturally occurring substance that can be mined, whether in

solid. Liquid or gaseous form, in or below the surface of the soil, any ores containing suchminerals and any product of such minerals derived by Processing and include peat and salt butdoes not include hydrocarbons;

"Mining" means any mining carried out on the surface or underneath for the purpose of evaluation

or obtaining of any minerals;

"Minister" means the Minister to whom the subject of Finance is assigned in the Board of

Ministers of the Northern Province;

"Quarter" in relation to any year of assessment means the period of three months commencing on

the first day respectively of April, July, October or January of that year of assessment; and

"Person" means includes anybody of persons corporate or unincorporate.

"Commissioner" means the Provincial Revenue Commissioner of the Northern Provincial Council.

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil, Sinhala and English texts of this Statute, theTamil text shall prevail.

09 - 790

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Certainprovisions ofthe NorthernProvinceFinance Statuteto apply.

Interpretation.

Tamil text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.