==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2118$40 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2019'04'09No. 2118/40 - TUESDAY APRIL 09, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4473— 10 (04/2019)

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

STATUTE OF COOPERATIVE SOCIETY BEARING No. 06 OF 2019 UNDER THE SOUTHERNPROVINCIAL COUNCIL

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, Irrigation, WaterSupplying and Drainage, Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade & Cooperative Development of Southern ProvincialCouncil hereby inform to the General Public that the Statute of Cooperative Society No. 06 of 2019 which had alreadybeen approved dated 01.04.2019 by the Hon. Governor of Southern Province followed by the approval made dated26.03.2019 by the Southern Provincial Council is enacted since 01st of April in 2019.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,Minister of Agriculture, Agrarian Development,Irrigation, Water Supplying and Drainage,Food Supplying & Distribution and Trade &Cooperative Development of Southern Provincial Council.

01st April, 2019,4th Floor, Dakshinapaya,Labuduwa, Galle,At the Minister’s Office,Ministry of Agriculture, Southern Province.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20192A

Statute of the Cooperative Society bearing No. 06 of 2019 under theSouthern Provincial Council

A Precept, to provide ways and means to organize, to register, to supervise, to Regulate, to Audit, toprovided cooperative education and propagation and to develop the cooperative societies within theSouthern Provincial Council, to proclaim the written statute relating to the establishment andadministering Cooperative societies and, to provide for connected and related matters.

This precept will replace the Cooperative Act, No. 5 of 1972 amended by cooperative Act,No. 32 of 1983 and No.11 of 1992 except the sentences 9(4), 9(5), 24, 24(c) 25, 26, 28(1), 28(2),29(1), 29(2), 44(2)(1)(a), 53(2), 58(1)(e), 61(2)(g), 61(2)(i), 71, 75, “bank” means - (a)(b)(c).

The Provincial Council of the Southern province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of SriLanka will hereby enact as herewith.

1. This precept will be known as the Southern Provincial Council’s No. 06 of 2019 CooperativeSociety Precept and will come in to effect from the date sanctioned by the Governor of theSouthern Provincial Council.

1ST PARAGRAPH

Registration

2.(1) It is required to appoint a Cooperative Development Commissioner and a CooperativeRegistrar for the Southern Province. Similarly, as may be necessary, the appointmentof Provincial Deputy Registrar and Registrars, Assistant Commissioner and a numberof Registrars may be appointed.

(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Cooperative in the Southern Provincial Councilmay, by a special or general order, bestow, in part or in whole, powers vested in theProvincial Commissioner and Registrar as per this precept, or as per the regulationsenacted in accordance with this precept, upon the Provincial Deputy Commissioner andthe Registrar or the Assistant Commissioners and the Registrars.

(3) The person who functions currently as the Provincial Cooperative DevelopmentCommissioner or the Cooperative Development Commissioner, the person whocurrently function or appointed to function within the Southern Province, should bestowthe same powers by the regulations enacted, or said to have been enacted, by this preceptas bestowed on the Cooperative society registrar and that he/she should exercise thatpower.

(4) Each of those persons who have been appointed to assist the Provincial commissionerof Cooperative should be delegated with certain specific powers of the Registrar, byregulations enacted or said to have been enacted under this precept,as determined bythe Registrar by a special or general order made under this article and such persons soempowered may exercise such authority.

3. Subject to provisions hereinafter included

(1) A society voluntarily organized in line with the policies and benevolent principles of thecooperative movement while preserving the identity and the entrepreneurship of the saidmovement with the intention of facilitating the thrift of economic,educational, social andcultural skills of its members

or

Short Title and thedate of activation

Appointmentsand the power ofthose appointed

Societies that canbe registered

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

a society comprising of societies registered as own members,established to facilitatethe activities of the societies named in paragraph (1) above could be registered underthis precept with or without the responsibility of limited liability. However, the liabilityof a society where there is membership of a society, is limited in responsibility.

(2) In a situation where the liability of the membership of a society is limited, no memberexcept a registered society should hold a greater proportion than what the share capitalregulations of the society prescribe, subject to a maximum limit of 1/5thof the society’sshare capital.

4.(1)(a) In a situation where the society comprise only of individual members, Unless itcomprises a minimum of 20 members, who are above 18 years of age, who reside,renders a service or owns immobile property within the purview of the operationalarea of the society and have the potential to avail of the services of the society;or

(b)(i) In a situation where the society comprises of registered societies Unlessthere are a minimum of either five societies or 50 % of the societies formedfor a particular trade, whichever is higher, and that there is no other societyformed for the purpose within the district:

(ii) In an instance where an Area society or an Association is formed with themembership of registered societies, unless there are at least three registeredsocieties forming an Area Society:

(c) Unless a report of recommendation is obtained from a person or institution namedby the Commissioner stating that

(i) The activities the societies intend to be engaged in are economicallycompatible;

(ii) The constitutions proposed by the societies are in accordance with thisprecept and regulations prepared or considered to have been prepared underthis precept:

(d) Unless the proposed constitutions have been ratified by the membership of thesocieties at a properly summoned and constituted General meeting with regard totheir current activities:

(e) Unless the membership that signed the application for registration of the Societieshave paid in full all the membership fees and other legitimate dues payable to thesociety:

(f) Unless, in a situation where there is another society with similar entrepreneurialintentions registered within the purview of the subject society, that registeredsociety has obtained consent at a General meeting of the other society, expressingconsent to register the subject society:

(g) Unless the constitution of the subject society states that, two members of theproposed Executive committee of the society should be between eighteen andthirty-five years of age and accordingly they have been duly elected and arefunctioning as stipulated:

Conditions ofRegistration

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20194A

(h) Unless the functional and financial feasibility of the proposed society has beensubstantiated for the past 6 months:

(i) Unless the information prescribed for the purpose of registration, by the Registrar,has been complied with by the subject society;

no society shall be registered under this precept.

However, the Cooperative Development Commissioner and the Registrar has discretionary powerto exempt or change the regulation concerning age, stipulated in paragraph (g) above, whileregistering the subject society or society comprising of societies.

(2) Notwithstanding what is stated in clause 1. above, in a situation where the Registrar isnot satisfied with the position of registering a subject society for whatever reason,such a society will not be registered under this precept.

(3) In the event where an issue arises with regard to the contents of this article as to whether thesubject society has fulfilled the conditions stated in this precept for registration, the Registraris required to decide on such issue and thus his decision will be final.

(4) This precept permits the registration of a society, with or without, the responsibility ofLIMITED. In the case of societies that register with the responsibility of LIMITED shouldcarry the term LIMITED at the end their title (name), or in the alternative, the Sinhala or Tamilterm for LIMITED should be a part of their title.

5.(1) The registration procedure should be done according to a prescribed procedure inpresenting the application to registrar

(2) The application-

(a) In the case of society, where there is no registered society as a member, it shouldbe signed by not less than 20 persons who are eligible to sign as per article 4paragraph (a) above.

(b) In the case of a society where there is a registered society/societies as a member/members, it should be signed by a person duly authorized to do so on behalf ofevery one of those societies.

(3) The following documents should accompany the application-

(a) Two copies of the proposed Constitution of the society

(b) A report on the feasibility of the economic activity the society intends to be engagedin

(c) Certified copies of the minutes of the General meeting where the proposal toapply for registration was proposed and the minutes of the General meeting wherethe Constitution was approved with certified reports of attendance at thosemeetings.

Application forRegistration

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(d) A certificate signed by the executive committee of the society where they certifythat the members who have signed the application have subscribed to the statedshares of the society and that the monies so paid are lying in the custody of theexecutive committee of the society.

(e) Any other information or report that the Registrar may request in relation to theregistration of the society.

6. If,in the opinion of the registrar, a particular society has acted in accordance with the rules,regulations and provisions of this precept, the economic objectives it intends to be engagedin are feasible, its constitution does not contradict the values and principles of the preceptand that the society has been active for at least 6 months preceding the application forregistration, the registrar upon receiving the application may proceed to register the subjectsociety within 60 day, of the receipt of the application accompanied by a copy of the society’sconstitution. However, if the Registrar wishes to decline to register a particular society, heshould inform the applicant, within that 60 days period, of his inability to register that society.Upon such rejection, the subject society may make an appeal to the Minister within 60 daysof the date of the registrar’s intimation by any person who was a signatory to the applicationfor registration. The Minister in turn may give a ruling on such appeal within 60 days ofthe date of that appeal.

7.(1) Once a society is registered, the Registrar may issue a Certificate of Registration forthat society.

(2) The Certificate of Registration issued by the Registrar should be treated as decisiveevidence that the society has been duly registered, unless it is proved that the registrationportrayed in the registration has been cancelled subsequently.

8.(1) Any amendments to the constitution of a registered society, including the amendmentto the constitution that contains the society’s name, should be subject to the laws,regulations and provisions of the Corporative precept.

(2) An amendment to the constitution of any registered society should not be consideredduly made unless such amendment is registered under the Corporative precept. For thispurpose, a copy of any proposed amendment should be forwarded to the Registrar induplicate.

(3) Where a registered Interim constitution of a society requires an amendment,unless suchamendment is submitted with copies or reports prescribed in article 4.(1)(c) & (d) togetherwith information and reports requested by the Commissioner, such amendments may notbe registered.

(4)(a) If the Registrar is satisfied that the proposed amendment to the constitution of thesociety is consistent with the Corporative precept, the Registrar may proceed toregister the amendment within 60 days of submission. However, if the Registrarwishes to decline to register a particular amendment, he should inform therespective party, within that 60 days period, of his inability to register. Upon suchrejection, the subject society may make an appeal to the Minister within 60 days ofthe date of the registrar’s intimation. The Minister, may give a ruling on an appeal,so made, within 60 days of the date of that appeal.

(b) The procedure to be followed by the Minister in the case of appeals under (a) aboveshould be in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this precept.

Registration.

Evidence ofRegistration.

Amending theConstitutionof a registeredSociety.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20196A

(5) While an amendment that changes the name of a society should have no impact on therights or obligations of that society or any member/ former member of the society, anylegal matter, by or against the society that is institute at present may be continued underthe new name.

(6) When an amendment to the Constitution of a registered society is registered by theRegistrar, he should issue a copy of that amendment certified by him to the societyconcerned. The subject certificate should thereafter may be considered as conclusiveevidence that the amendment to the constitution is duly registered.

(7) The word ‘amendment’ in this article should include, preparing a new constitution ormaking changes in the existing constitution.

(8) Every constitution of a registered society sanctioned by the Corporative DevelopmentCommissioner/ Registrar should be subject to the regulations and provisions of thisprecept.

9.(1) A registered society, having obtained the prior approval of the Registrar and by a proposalcarried by a 2/3rds majority of the members who attend and vote at a General Meetingof the society,

(a) May transfer a part or the entirety of the assets and liabilities of that society toanother registered society ; or

(b) May bifurcate the society into two or more societies.

(2) Two or more registered societies, having obtained the prior approval of the Registrar,may form into a single society by a resolution carried by a 2/3rd majority of the memberswho attend and vote at the general meetings of each of those societies that desire tomerge.

(3)(a) With regard to sanctions obtained by a proposal of a registered society or societiesunder clause(1) and clause (2) above, the proposal should contain all the arrangementswith regard to transfer, split or integration of the concerned societies.

(b) The Commissioner and the Registrar could call for a report on the suitability ofthe proposed transfer, bifurcation or the integration and the Commissioner andthe Registrar should take a decision on the proposed transfer, bifurcation or theintegration. That decision should be decisive and final on the matter.

(c) If approval is granted to act as per clauses (1) & (2) above, the Registrar mayappoint one person or a Board comprising number of persons that he consider ascapable of attending to the task and that person or the Board should have powersto accomplish the task.

(4) In an instance where a registered society has obtained a ratification for a proposal whichinvolves a transfer of assets and liabilities under this article, and if that proposalcontradicts whatever provision that is available in the current law prevailing, the proposalshould be treated as a proper transfer of assets and liabilities notwithstanding the currentlaw and bestowing such assets to the beneficiaries should be considered as an adequatetransfer.

IncorporatingBifurcating &transfer of assets& credits ofregisteredsocieties.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

10.(1) In an instance where the entirety of a registered society’s assets and liabilities havebeen transferred to another society in keeping with the provisions of this precept, theregistration of the first society should be cancelled and while that society is considereddissolved it should also cease to function as a corporation.

(2) In an instance where two or more registered societies have amalgamated in keepingwith the provisions of this precept the registration of each of those amalgamated societieswill cease to be effective from the day the new society came into existence and furtherthose societies will be considered as dissolved and their corporate status will also ceaseon that date.

(3) In an instance where a single society is bifurcated into two or more societies inaccordance with the provisions of this precept, the registration of that preceding societywill cease to be effective on the date the succeeding societies are registered and thatpreceding society will be considered as dissolved and its corporate existence will alsocease on that date.

2nd CHAPTER

Members of Registered Societies and their Rights and Responsibilities

11(1) No member of a registered society shall exercise the rights of a member unless or untilhe has made such payment to the society in respect of membership or acquired suchinterest in the society, as may be prescribed by the rules or by laws.

(2) Where a member of a registered society has not made such payment to the society oracquired such interest in the society as is referred to in subsection (1), it shall be lawfulfor the society, from any sum of money due from the society to such member in respectof the purchase of any scheduled agricultural product under the statutory organizationto deduct any sum of money due to the society from such member in respect of suchpayment or such interest as is referred to in subsection (1).

(3)(a) The minimum value of one share purchased by a member of a registered society isRs. 500/ and this value should be paid by the member within one year of becominga member. However, this may not apply to School Corporative Societies whereprovisions enacted by rules may apply.

(b) A member may commence purchasing a share of a society with the minimuminitial payment of Rs. 50/ and then increase that amount to Rs. 500/ within an yearof that initial payment. The minimum value of a share could be increased onagreement and could be paid even in one instalment.

(4)(a) All the registered corporative societies of the Southern Province ProvincialCouncil should make the minimum value of their shares to Rs. 500 within oneyear from the date of this precept by making necessary amendments to theirconstitutions. However, these provisions may not apply to School CorporativeSocieties and what is applicable would be provisions enacted by rules.

(b) These provisions may not apply to members who have obtained membership, onor before the effective date of this precept.

Instancesof cancellationof registrationof registeredSocieties.

Members not toexercise rightstill duepayments made.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.20198A

(c). Further, a member may not enjoy his right to exercise his vote or his right to holdoffice until he has completed one year since paying his share money in full. However,this period of one year may not apply to members whose names appear in theapplication for new registration forwarded by the societies and members who areof registered societies.

(5) A member may enjoy the right to exercise his vote or his right to hold office after hebecomes a full member of the society.

(6)(a) A person who is a Member of, Parliament, Provincial Council, MunicipalCouncil,Town Council or Pradeshiya Sabha may not be eligible to be chosen tofunction as a member of the executive body of a registered society and if the electionto the legislative body is subsequent, such elected member should cease to functionin that capacity of the society from the date of such election. Further, unlesssanctioned by the Commissioner or the Registrar, no officer of the SouthernCorporative Development Department should function as an executive body memberof a registered society. This rule however may not apply to an office of corporativesocieties that comprise of only officers of the Southern Corporative DevelopmentDepartment.

(b) An employee of a Southern Province Cooperative Society, unless appointed bythe Commissioner or the Registrar, may not be eligible to be appointed or tofunction as a member of the executive body of a corporative society. However,this article may not be of relevance to corporative societies where only officersof corporative societies are members.

(7) Unless appointed by either the Registrar of the Commissioner, if a person chosen as thePresident of a registered society is also the President of another society on the datethat he is chosen, that person is not eligible to be the President of the society where theobjectives are different from those of the first society. However, these provisions maynot be applicable when appointing a President for the District Corporative society.

12(1) A registered society may admit any person who enters into an agreement to pursuetrade objectives consistent with the objectives of the constitution of the society as anAssociated member. That agreement however, should be beneficial to the society.

(2) An Associate member should have no rights either to any part of the society’s Assets orprofits and for voting at the conduct of society affairs.

(3) Other than the limitations imposed by this article, an Associate member may enjoy allother privileges and rights as per the constitution of the society and he shall be subjectto the responsibilities specified therein.

13. The minor status, or the incomplete adult age status of a person, duly accepted as a Memberof a registered society under this precept should not be a constraint from Signing in to thelaws, legal documents and enjoying exemptions as per the rules of this precept. Further, suchstatus should not be a reason for that member to evade responsibility or to claim exceptionand therefore cancellation of an agreement he/she has entered in to with a society. Similarly,it should be possible to enforce the law in cases where he has taken part in agreements withthe society, either as a principal stakeholder or as a guarantor, notwithstanding the fact thathe/she is a minor.

AssociateMembers.

Agreements &Transactionsentered in towith minormembers.

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

14. A subsequent discovery of a defect or an ineligibility in the appointment of an officer shouldnot be a reason for that society to disassociate itself from the responsibilities that officerhas entered into during his tenure.

15. A member of a registered society should enjoy only one vote in the conduct of society affairsat its General and Executive committee meetings. However, in a situation where there is tie invoting on a particular issue, the Chairman of the meeting could exercise his vote to be decisive.

However, in the event of electing officers and executive committee members of the society,a tie in voting should be resolved by resorting to a raffle draw.

16. (1). A member of a primary society, should not exercise his vote unless done on personalbasis by being present at the meetings of the society.

However, where there is provision in the constitution to permit voting by an Agent, sucharrangements may be acceptable.

(2). A society who is a member of another society, however could appoint a member of thatsociety to exercise its voting rights on its behalf in the conduct of that other society’saffairs.

17. (1). The transfer of the shares of capital or other obligations/ privileges of, a member, anex-member or a deceased member, should be subject the maximum amount a memberis entitled to as per the rules and conditions prescribed in this precept.

(2). In the case of societies ‘Unlimited’ in their responsibility, members of such societiesmay not transfer a share of the capital or other rights/responsibilities unless;

(a) He/she has held that share or responsibility for a period exceeding one year and

(b) the transfer is to the society, to a person who is either a member or a personwhose application for membership has been accepted by the executive committeeof a society.

3RD PARAGRAPH

Responsibilities of Registered Societies

18. Every society registered under this precept should have an address registered according tothe rules of this precept and to which notices and correspondence could be addressed to, andin the event where there is a change in that address such changes should be notified to theRegistrar within seven days of such change.

19. Every registered society upon a request from a member, should make available for inspectionfor a reasonable time, without levying a fee, copy of this precept, its rules, a copy of theinterim constitution of the society, copies of its executive committee order and a copy of thelist of its members by making such documents available for the members at its registeredaddress.

AgreementsEntered in toby officers

Voting right ofmembers

The mannerof exercisingthe vote

Limits ontransfer ofShares &Relationships

Address of theSociety

AccessibilityTo preceptrules and theconstitution

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201910A

4TH PARAGRAPH

Rights, Obligations and Privileges of Registered Societies

20. Upon registration of a society that society should accrue the personality of a corporationwith the right under its name to have Perpetual succession with a Common seal to possessproperty, to enter into agreements and to have recourse to law and to be prosecuted with theright to forward matters in its defense, and with powers to attend to all matters for which thecorporative society was established.

21.(1) A society that has the sale of livestock, agricultural or an item, produced by an industry,as one of its objectives, may include provisions in its constitution or reach an agreementwith its members to say that;

( a) every member of the society who produces such items should dispose the entiretyor an agreed part, proportion of that produce or brand through the society and

(b) member who is deemed, or proven to have violated the society constitution or anagreement entered in to, according to the rules of this precept, should pay to thesociety an amount determined and assessed in proportion to the loss sustained bythe society as a result of that violation.

However, it is possible for a member to cause changes in the provisions of theconstitution in this regard, or come to an agreement with among the members ofthe society

(2) A registered society, in keeping with clause (1) above, should enter into an agreementthat is to the society’s advantage with regard to goods produced or about to be and likelyto be produced.

(3) The legal implications arising out of clause (1) above, should not be construed by anymember of a registered society as an ‘embargo on trade and industrial produce’.

(4) If a member of a registered society by reason of an agreement he/she has entered intoprior to becoming a member, continues to dispose his produced to an outsider in keepingwith that agreement,such disposal should not be considered as a violation of a clause inthe constitution of the society that makes it mandatory for the member to sell produceto the society.

(5) In this respect, if a society requires a member to disclose all agreements he has entered into, before he became a member, at the time he becomes a member, in his membershipapplication, that member should accordingly comply with the requirement of the society.

22.(1) In the event where a registered society is covering a certain area, province or districtwithin the southern provincial council by selling a particular produce made by themembers of that society and where the Minister concerned is satisfied that such produceis being made in the area, the Minister may by an order, require a particular producer ofthose items in the area, irrespective of whether he/ she is a member or not of the society,to hand over such part of their produce, after taking over the part of the produce that he/she requires for his own consumption, to the society.

Society is aCorporate body

Selling goods tothe society ofthrough society

Instancesof mandatorysale of goodsthrough thesociety

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(2) Any such order that the Minister may decide to make under clause (1) above, should bepublished in the Gazette and carry specific details of the particular product, the area inwhich the order is to be carried out, and the basis of payment to the producer of thatproduct.

(3) All such orders should be effective from the date such orders are published in the Gazettenotification and should be in force until rescinded according to the provisions of clause(5) herein.

(4) All such orders, after coming in to effect should be forwarded to the Southern ProvincialCouncil for ratification.

(5) Any such order that is declined to be approved by the Southern provincial council shouldbe considered as an order rescinded and it should not have an impact on any activitypermitted between the day of the order and the day rescinded. The day the ratificationof the order is declined by the Southern Provincial Council should be considered as theday the order was rescinded and such rescinded date should be published in the gazettenotification.

(6)(a) By an order gazetted by the Minister (Hereinafter known as the amended order), theMinister could change any order at any time gazetted under clause (1) before. Thus,every amended order should be effective from the date it is published in the gazettenotification.

(b) An amended order that has changed an order made under clause (1) above,shouldlast a period of time that the first subject order could have lasted, if it had not beenamended, and not any further than that

(c) Every mended order should be forwarded to the Southern Provincial Council forRatification. Yet however, if an amendment made under clause (1) above is furtheramended by an amendment or amendments before the original amendment isforwarded to the Southern Provincial Council under clause (4), the forwardedamendment should include the changes effected by all the amendments listed andin such a situation forwarding all the amendments one by one to the SouthernProvincial council may not be necessary.

(d) The declining to approve an order for amendment forwarded to the SouthernProvincial Council under clause (1) should be considered as the termination of thatamendment order and with regard to such amendments that have been declined, theactivities should move forward from that date of such termination as if no amendmentorder has been received.

(e) The Minister could subsequently withdraw an amendment order made under clause(1) and in the event of such a withdrawal, that fact should be published in theGazette and would be effective from the date that is so published.

(7) All amendment orders sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council should be treatedas enacted, valid and in force here.

(8) All notifications published in the Gazette under this article should be published with thesignature of the Minister.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201912A

(9) In the event where the provisions of a directions made under this article is consideredcontradictory with provisions of certain other existing legislation such contradictionshould have no bearing on the implementation of this particular direction during theperiod prescribed in the direction as the provisions of this precept should supersedeany other provisions.

(10) Any producer of goods who is not a member of a registered society, but his produce hasbeen sold by a registered society under an order made by clause (1) above, should abideby the conditions and obligations of the society for that particular sale, just as a memberof the society would in the course of the transaction.

(11) In the event where an order is made under clause (1) above, to sell the products of acertain producer who is not a member of the society and when that producer has made anapplication to be admitted as a member of the society:

(a) the society may retain such amount that is necessary to meet his membership, infull or in part, from the proceeds of such sales with the consent of the producerand

(b) after settling his proceeds in full, subject to recovery as stated above,should beadmitted as a member.

23(1) In the event where an outside party has agreed to sell his produce through a registeredsociety under sentence 21 or has been bound by an order issued under sentence 22, it isan offense for any person, having the knowledge of such arrangement, to prompt orpersuade that person to dispose his produce through an alternative source by breachingthat agreement or by disobeying that order. In such an event if and when that person isfound guilty of that offense in a summary trial by a Magistrate Court, he should besubject to a fine not exceeding rupees five thousand.

(2) In the event where the offense stated in clause (1) above in this article has beencommitted by a corporate body, every member of the Board of Directors and officersof that corporate body at the time the offense was committed is considered guilty ofthat same offense unless they prove that they were not aware of that arrangement orhave taken every possible precaution in their capacity to prevent that offense from beingtaking place.

24(1) In the event of the death of a member of a registered society, the society could transferthe share and other relevant relationships to a person nominated by the member in keepingwith the rules of this precept, and where no such member has been nominated the societycould transfer to a person, who the society in the opinion of its executive committee,consider to be the legitimate heir of that member. On the other hand, the society couldalso pay to either the nominated party or to the inheritor according to the rules of theconstitution, an amount equivalent to the value of shares and other relevant relationshipsof the member. However,

(a) In the case of an Unlimited society, either the nominated person or the heir of thedeceased member could claim in cash, an amount determined as equivalent to thevalue of share and other affairs connected of the deceased member.

(b) In the case of a society registered as limited, the society could within 6 months ofthe death of the particular member could transfer the share and other connected

Those whoPrompt othersTo breachAgreements.

TransferringThe rights &obligations of adeceased member

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

affairs of the deceased member in keeping with the rules of the precept and theconstitution of the society, to a nominated person, to a heir or to a person asdetailed in a request made by the member.

(2) A registered society, should settle all other monies due to the deceased member to thenominated person, to the heir or to an appointed agent.

(3) All payments and transfers made by the registered society upon the death of a memberand in keeping with the provisions of this article, should overpower any other claimmade by another person who makes a claim against the deceased member’s estate.

25.(1)(a) It is the responsibility of the executive committee of every registered society tomaintain an updated membership register, in keeping with the rules of the preceptand of the provisions in the constitution of the society.

(b) The subject register should contain the following details.

(i) The full name, address, national Identity card number, the employment of themember and the number of shares owned by the member.

(ii) The signature or the thumb impression of the member.

(iii) If there are persons nominated by a member, the full name, date of birth,address and NIC number of that nominated person/s.

(2) In order to make it evidently clear that a membership register is being maintained by thesociety in keeping with the rules of the precept it should contain the following details:

(a) the date on which a particular members name was introduced to the register or listof names.

(b) The date on which a particular member obtained his/her membership.

(c) The date on which a member terminated his/her membership.

(3) It is the responsibility of the Chairman of the registered society on behalf of the society’sexecutive committee to forward a certified copy of the membership register prepared asabove to the Commissioner and the registrar;

(a) within three months since the sanctioning of this precept.

(b) within three months from the commencement of every calendar year togetherwith all the changes effected to the membership register such as introductions,deletions and alterations in the status of members, during the preceding year.

26.(1) A copy of the notes of a book of transactions, properly maintained by a registered society,certified according to the rules of certification, should be admissible as a prima facieevidence in a civil or criminal legal matter. Further at every instance that content isconsidered admissible, a copy of that content subject to the rules of authenticationshould be considered as admissible evidence with regard to the subject issues andtransactions to the same degree that original content is considered admissible.

Register ofmembers.

Proof of entries inbooks of society

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201914A

(2) in a legal matter where the registered society is not a party, unless ordered by the Courtsunder special reasons, no officer of the society influenced or is bound to appear as awitness to produce the books and contents of the society therein or to testify on theirbehalf under sentence (1) above.

27. A registered society, notwithstanding any written or implied current law that may stand in theway;

(1) may use the security deposits in the possession of the society to balance its accounts.

(2) could bestow the right to the creditor to sell, part or whole of the security deposits,andto credit the proceeds to balance the accounts, on account of amounts the society hasfailed to pay after having received the notice issued by the Courts,without presentingitself in courts.

28. A registered society is entitled, to come to possess or dispossess, mobile and immobileproperty, by purchasing, selling, constructing, receiving as gifts or acquiring by other means,or by giving or taking on lease, transferring, mortgaging or exchanging, for the purpose ofaccomplishing its set objectives.

However, a registered society, except in the case of trading stock, cannot enter in to suchtransactions on property unless, it obtains the approval of the general body when the value ofa property exceeds two hundred thousand and obtains prior approval in writing from the generalbody and the Registrar, when the value of property exceeds five hundred thousand.

Accordingly, a registered society in possessing and dispossessing immobile property shouldobtain the written approval of the society’s general body and the Registrar as detailed above.

29.(1) When the need arises for a registered society to come to possess property for thepurpose of accomplishing its objectives, such need should be considered as a publicneed and therefore the Government may permit the society to acquire such propertyunder the Land Acquisition act.

(2) Where a particular property or land is to be acquired by the government on behalf of aregistered society under the land acquisition act, the subject society, before an order ismade with regard to that property under the provisions of that act, should pay thegovernment, the amount specified as compensation for the land as per the act and theconnected expenses born by the government in acquiring the property.

However, In the event where a particular property is required urgently for the purpose ofaccomplishing the objectives of a registered society, the society has to pay thegovernment, an amount determined by the acquiring officer as compensation, prior tothe issuing of the acquisition order, and the balance amount if there is, has to be paidafter deciding on the amount of compensation.

Deposits ofsecurities aspledges by asociety

PossessingProperty

Compulsoryacquisition ofland andbuildings

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

5TH CHAPTER

General Provisions relating to Interim Constitutions

30.(1) A registered society, having registered its constitution, should bound its membershipby the provisions of the constitution in such a way, as if every member of the societyhas signed against every provision of the interim constitution and that every memberhas pledged in person to uphold the provisions of the interim constitution.

(2) In a situation where it is required to define particular provisions of the constitution ofa registered society, due to some ambiguity with regard to the expressions therein, suchdispute should be forwarded to the registrar for resolution and the decision taken by theregistrar should be decisive and final.

31. A constitution enacted on a particular issue by a registered society empowered by a particularrule should not be questioned based only on the premise that the enactment is an agreement toprohibit an industry or business.

32. A registered society, should compose its own constitution and having composed it, is permittedto incorporate provisions to impose fines against the members of the society who breach theconstitution.

However, no society should impose fines against its members on this count unless that member,

(1) is informed by the society that a fine is to be imposed against him and the reason forthat imposition, and

(2) has failed to give reasons as against the allegations within the time specified in the rulesof the precept.

6th Chapter

Property and Funds of Registered Societies

33.(1) A registered society, having registered its constitution on behalf of its members, isbound by its provision to each and every member of the society as if every member ofthe society has taken an allegiance individually to be bound by the same

(2) Goods can be supplied on credit as per an agreement entered in to with an Associatemember.

(3) Subject to the provisions of the constitution of the society,the society can grant loansTomembers having accepted that members immobile property as security guarantee againstloans.

(4) Subject to the provisions provided in the constitution of the society, the society cangrant loans having mobile or immobile property with two personal guarantors.

34.(1) A registered society, can accept deposits and loan monies from persons who are notmembers of the society, subject to the provisions and rules of the society’s constitution.

By-lows of asociety to bindmembers.

Power to makeby-lows inrestrains oftrades.

Power to make by-lows for theimposition offines on members.

Loans grantedBy registeredSocieties.

Deposits &Loans acceptedBy registeredSocieties.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201916A

(2) In an instance where a bank has granted a loan to a registered society having obtained amortgage on a mobile or immobile property, such transaction should bound that property,on a priority basis from the date and subsequent to that mortgages over and above anyother transaction entered in to against that property except those already registered asper the Document registration ordinance against that property or in a manner having abearing on that property.

35. Transactions entered in to by a registered society with persons who are not a members of thesociety should be subjected to the provisions of articles 33 and 34 of this precept and thelimitations and prohibitions contained in the rules.

36.(1)(a) A registered society could deposit or invest the society’s funds either withsecurities which are not the 1st mortgages of specific properties under article 20of the Custody Ordinance or with a banker or a person who functions as a bankeras approved by the Registrar or with any other registered society or on guaranteeas sanctioned by the Registrar, or in any other way as permitted by the rules.

(b) Re-investment of deposits and properties obtained from members and nonemembers should be done according to the standards specified by the registrar.

(c) The society should seek the prior approval of the registrar when obtaining advancesand loans against deposits and property securities from external institutions.

(d) A society registered under this precept should not invest its funds in a business orindustry outside its stated objectives without obtaining approval from the Registrar.

(2) However, this precept does not render invalid a particular investment, made prior to thecommencement of this precept but yet may not have been acceptable had this preceptbeen effective. yet, such agreements should not be renewed after the expiry of thecurrent period of the agreement except under the provisions of this precept.

37.(1) Every registered society, in every financial year, as determined by the Auditor as perarticle 39 of this precept should;

(a)(i) pay an amount not less than 50 % of the profit before appropriation to thecredit of Southern Province Cooperative Development fund established bythis precept. This money should be paid within a period not less than 90days of the receipt of the Audit report to the society. In the event of failureto make that payment, the Registrar in order to recover this money willissue a certificate to the magistrate. The Magistrate is empowered to recoverthis money by way of a fine imposed on the society and credit same to thecooperative fund.

(ii) As per the legal aspect under paragraph (i) above, this article should notEmpower the Magistrate to question, to examine,or to determine on, thecorrectness of the certificate issued by the Registrar.

(b) An amount not less than 25% of the Net profit should be transferred to the Statutoryfund of the Society, similarly

(c) although certain societies may lose money, at least Rs. 50/ should be paid by eachsociety towards the Cooperative development fund. The School Cooperativesocieties are however, exempted from this rule.

Restriction onother transactionswith non-members.

Investing theSociety funds.

Appropriationof profits.

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(d) Provisions should be made by rules to administer the Cooperative DevelopmentFund.

(2)(a) The excess of profits of the society, after making contributions to the Corporativedevelopment fund and to the Statutory fund, should be utilized for the purpose ofaccomplishing one or more of the following events, with the approval of theregistrar :

(i) To pay as dividends to the members, either 10 % of the balance profit or10% of the value of fully paid shares, whichever is less in value

(ii) To reward the members in accordance with the value of transactions theyhave entered in to with the society as permitted by the provisions of theconstitutions.

(iii) To appropriate a maximum of 10% of the balance monies to funds determinedby the Interim Constitution.

(iv) To appropriate a certain sum, to pay bonus to the employees of the Societyand for their welfare activities.

(v) To appropriate a certain sum to funds clearly specified by the society’sconstitution.

(vi) To contribute not more than 10 % of the balance monies to a commonwelfare fund, for the purpose of disbursing on social, cultural or recreationalactivity or for achieving a wider public objective in the province or area.

(b) The monies lying to the balance after appropriating as per (a) above should betransferred to the statutory fund account.

7TH CHAPTER

Accounts, Income/Expenditure, Audit, Inspection &Investigation

38(1). Every registered society should maintain accounts in accordance with standards specifiedby the registrar with regard to the society’s income/expenditure, assets/ liabilities andall other transactions of the society.

(2). Every registered society should maintain its books of accounts in a manner that representsa true and fair view of its transactions during a particular financial year in keeping withthe standards laid down by the registrar or a person appointed by the registrar. Thesociety should prepare a statement of Accounts at the end of every financial year and thestatement of accounts so prepared should include the profit & Loss statement and theAssets and Liabilities statement for the particular year, and it should be presented to theRegistrar or a person appointed by the registrar within three months from the end of theparticular financial year. The financial statement so prepared should be certified andsigned mentioning the date of signature by either the Chairman or the Deputy Chairmanand by two other Executive committee members of the society. If the financial statementduly signed and presented to the Registrar is found to be erroneous or fraudulent, theofficers of the society are liable to be prosecuted under the Penal code for preparingfraudulent documents.

Accounts &Auditsof a society

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201918A

(3). In the event where a registered society has not complied with provisions of clause

(2) above, every member of the executive committee of that society is found to havecommitted an offense and when found guilty of the offense at a summary trial before aMagistrate court should be subject to a fine, a minimum & maximum of which, should beRs. 10,000/ and Rs. 50,000/ respectively. In addition, the executive committee should besubjected to a directive that requires the committee to produce the annual accountsstatement within 3 months of that directive. However, if a member could prove that theoffense committed was done without his full awareness of the offense and that he hasmade every effort within his means to prevent the offense from taking place, such membermay be exonerated from such conviction.

(4)(a). In the event where the statement of Annual Accounts is not produced before theRegistrar as prescribed in clause (3) above, the Registrar should take steps todissolve the current executive board of the subject society and appoint a suitableadministrative board to administer the society.

(b). The administrative board appointed as in paragraph (a) above should prepare theaccounts of the previous year before the end of the current financial year andshould forward the accounts to the registrar and should proceed to call a generalmeeting of the society within the time laid down by the registrar and take action toappoint an executive committee of the society to conduct its affairs for the rest ofthe period of office. In such a situation the members who were present in the previousexecutive committee of the society as in (a) above are not eligible to seek office.

(c). In the event where the books and accounts and financial reports are prepared bythe registrar as in (b) above the society should act to recover such expenses incurredin the preparation from the executive board found to be wanting in its duty,collectively and individually.

(5) (a). Every registered society should prepare a budgeted Income & Expenditurestatement that includes revenue targets, capital and recurrent expenditure, fundsources, fund investments and profit and loss statements and a balance Sheet forevery financial year.

(b) These statements, should be prepared and forwarded for the approval of the generalmembership two months in advance of every financial year.

(c) In the event where there is an injunction against the summoning of the generalmeeting of the society by courts, the Secretary of the society should give reasonsto the courts by way of a motion and obtain permission to hold a special generalmeeting only for the purpose of approving the annual estimates of income andexpenditure and the development program of the society. Accordingly, thecommissioner should convene a general meeting of the society.

(d) A copy of the subject income & Expenditure statement should be made availableto the Registrar one month before the subject financial year.

(e) The structure and the manner of the subject income & Expenditure statement andthe information contained therein should be determined by the registrar.

Preparationof Income & expenditure

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

39(1). The audit of a registered society may be performed by an officer of the CorporativeDevelopment Department empowered by the registrar or any other Certified Accountsexaminer, appointed by the Registrar. For the purpose of this article, a certified Accountsexaminer would be,

(a) A Chartered Accountant or a firm of Chartered Accountants ;

(b) A person or a body of persons whose name is included in the list of Accountsexaminers maintained by the registrar.

(2). The period of audit as per this precept should commence from the last date of thepreceding audit period and end with the last date of the subject financial year or with adate ordered by the Registrar, as the case is.

(3)(a). In the event where an audit is required on account of a criminal case or aninvestigation, the Registrar has the power to order a person suitably empoweredin accordance with article 39(1).

(b). When an audit is warranted on account of a criminal case, the Registrar has thepower to order an Accounts examiner to conduct a special audit covering a periodnot exceeding 12 months.

(4) An Accounts examiner should forward the report to the Registrar in duplicate, in amanner specified by the Registrar. The report, in addition to other information, shouldinclude the following points of information,

(a) Whether all relevant information required for the purpose was made available ;

(b) Whether the books of accounts have been maintained by the society regularly andin a timely manner ;

(c) Whether the financial declarations and financial status declarations are in keepingwith the books of accounts.

(5) The Accounts Examiner should enclose with the accounts report all lists and registersspecified by the registrar. The accounts Examiner should forward a certified full financialstatus report in a structure specified by the Registrar.

(6) The Audit performed as per clause (1) above should have -

(a) An assessment and a ……………….. of the Assets and Liabilities of everyregistered society.

(b) An examination on whether the books, reports, other registers, work procedures,information forwarding systems and the organization of certifying procedure areadequate, productive and enable a continuous evaluation of the state of affairs ofthe society’s financial control.

(c) An examination whether the conduct of the society’s affairs have been done inaccordance with the rules and regulations of the corporative precept and those ofthe constitution of the society and whether the administration of the society hascomplied with the provisions of the precept and those of the constitution.

Audits.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201920A

(d) An examination whether the funds of the society have been transacted in anefficient and a prudent manner.

(e) An examination whether there exists a satisfactory system to protect the propertiesand funds that are under the administration/management of the registered society.

(f) An examination whether the accounts, investments and assessments have beencarried out according to accepted principals relevant to those activities and whetherthe audited accounts have been planned to give a true and fair view of the financialposition of the society.

(g) Any other matter relevant or material to the subject under consideration .

(h) The audit activity underclauses (1) and (6) above of this article should be carriedout in keeping with conditions, procedures and structures detailed by theCorporative Development Commissioner and accordingly, the subject reportsshould comply with such requirements as prescribed.

(7) The Registrar of the person appointed by the Registrar, to carry out the financial auditof the registered society should have the power to,

(a) Call any person, an officer who is presently or formerly employed, an agent, amember or an outsider, who in the opinion of the Registrar or the person appointedby the registrar, is capable of providing material information with regard to themanagement and financial transactions of the registered society.

(b) Call for any document, register, a security deposit certificate, funds or any otherproperty that is in the possession of any person, an officer who is presently orformerly employed, an agent, a member or an outsider, which in the opinion of theRegistrar or the person appointed by the registrar, is material to the conduct ofthe registered society and the financial audit.

(c) To take into personal custody any books or documents that is deemed necessaryfor the time being.

(d) To enter into any premises, to examine and to take a physical count of goods, thatis relevant to the conduct of the affairs of the subject society.

(8) The Registrar or person appointed in writing by the registrar has the power to call for,inspect any books, registers, documents or cash in hand of a registered society maintainedby that society, at any time that is deemed necessary. Further all such materials shouldbe forwarded to the registrar or his nominee by the person or officer in charge of thatmaterial or in the alternative should provide such information relevant to the conduct ofthe society as ordered by the registrar or his nominee in charge of the inspection.

(9) The Registrar and a person nominated by him/her for an audit or an inspection of theregistered society should be considered as a Public servant in the definition of thePenal Code.

(10) (a) If a person, currently or formerly engaged in the organizing, management, as anOfficer, employee or in any other capacity in a registered society, has made orauthorized a payment or has appropriated the society funds, before or during theconduct of the audit,in violation of, either the rules of this precept,the constitution,

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

rules and practices advocated by the registrar, the provisions issued by theCorporative Service commission, and orders and procedures adopted by theexecutive committee of the society or any other rule or law that is relevant to theregistered society, such payment should not be permitted by the Registrar and theperson who caused, made or authorized that payment or appropriation of fundsshould be surcharged. Further the person responsible for such improper/ negligentauthorization or payment should be made accountable for the loss suffered due tothe particular authorization or payment. However, when no such accountability isforthcoming that loss should be recovered from the dues of that personresponsible. Further the monies recoverable from that person, at each instance,should be communicated to him in writing.

(b) The registrar or the person authorized by the registrar should offer a reasonableperiod of time in the context of the case to the person held accountable to givereasons for his action in making the said payment or authorization but if no suchopportunity is afforded, and the surcharge is imposed, the registrar or the personauthorized by the registrar is bound to give reasons, if requested by the personaccountable, for not offering an opportunity to give reasons in writing.

(c) On occasions where conduct has not followed the directions of the registrar, article65 of this precept, with suitable changes, may become relevant.

40.(1) In the event where certain shortcomings in the conduct of a registered society is revealedat an audit performed under this precept, the registrar should take action to inform themembers of the society of that position, and if another society is a member in this, toinform that other society as well.

(2) In such an event, the registrar may issue an order specifying a particular course of actionto remedy the shortcomings reported or to specify a time period within which to beacted upon to remedy the situation.

(3) If action is not taken as per clause (2) above, the option would be to act as per Paragraph(a) of clause (2) in article 56.

41.(1) The Registrar could conduct, in his own direction, an inspection with regard to a registeredsociety’s composition, financial status and to its conduct or its books of accounts.Further, the registrar upon requested by the majority of the executive committee ormembers amounting to not less than 1/3rd if the general membership, should order aninspection of the composition, financial status and the conduct, or to the books ofaccounts of the subject society. A person authorized in writing by the registrar couldorder an inspection of the registered society’s composition, financial status, conductand the books of accounts. However, as provided under this article, before such aninspection on books or an examination commences or is ordered; the registrar has thepower to conduct or order a preliminary inspection to determine whether there arereasonable grounds to warrant such an examination.

(2) For the purpose of conducting an examination as mentioned in (1) above, the registraror the person appointed by the registrar should have the power to,

(a) Call any person, an officer who is presently or formerly employed, an agent, amember or an outsider, who, in the opinion of the Registrar or the person appointedby the registrar, is capable of providing material information with regard to theadministration and financial transactions of the registered society.

Communication ofdefect in audit tosocieties

PreliminaryEnquiryExamination& enquiry

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201922A

(b) Call for any document, register, a security deposit certificate, funds or any otherproperty that is in the possession of any person, an officer who is presently orformerly employed, an agent, a member or an outsider, which in the opinion of theRegistrar or the person appointed by the registrar, is material to the conduct ofthe registered society and to the financial audit and to order that a certified copyof those books, document, security deposit, or any other such item is madeavailable when required, suggested and by the relevant party.

(c) to summon an executive committee meeting or a general meeting of the societyon a date and time decided by him to determine on matters suggested and offeredby him

(d) to take into custody the books of accounts when it is felt during the inspectionthat there is sufficient reason to believe that a fraud has taken place.

(e) To enter into any premises, to examine and to take a physical count of goods, thatis relevant to the conduct of that investigation and to the affairs of the subjectsociety.

(3) Before the finalization of an inspection carried out by the registrar as per this clause (1)of the article 41 above, and upon the Interim report obtained on that inspection, if theregistrar forms the opinion that the current executive committee of the subject societyis incapable, inefficient or unable in any other way to discharge its duties, the registrarhas power to suspend the existing executive committee by a period of six months and toappoint an Interim Administrative Board to manage and administer the affairs of thesociety. Thereafter the registrar has to conclude the investigation within 6 months ofthe date of suspending the executive committee and decide upon the contents of thefinal report, whether to dissolve or not, the existing executive committee of the society.

(4) The registrar or a person appointed by the registrar in writing could inquire in to whetheran officer of the registered society is appointed duly, whether an officer has ceased tofunction duly or whether the general meetings or the executive committee meetings ofthe registered society are held properly,

(5) In the event where it is felt necessary to examine, the financial position or the stockposition through a physical verification or when it is felt necessary to examine on thetransactions, books of accounts and registers maintained by the society, the Registrarhas powers to commence an examination, to mobilize necessary officers for the purposeor to order such an examination without prior notice

(6) The Registrar and persons appointed by him with delegated authority should beconsidered as Public servants in the definition of the Penal Code.

42. Upon an audit, an examination, an inspection on books of accounts or an impromptu inspection,carried out under this precept, the Registrar should direct the executive committee that is tocontinue to take remedial action where necessary based on the findings of the report. Thus,the executive committee is bound to take action, as directed by the registrar within threemonths of that direction and failure to do so may make the executive committee guilty of anoffense.

SuspensionOf ExecutiveCommittee &Appointing anInterim BoardOf management

InvestigationOn legitimacyOf MembershipOffice/post &meetings

Impromptu& emergencyInvestigations

Investigators arePublic servants

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

8TH CHAPTER

Dissolution of the Executive committee or Removal of Members of the Executive Committeeof a Registered Society

43.(1) Consequent to an examination, or an investigation on books carried out as per article41 of the precept, if the Registrar is of the opinion that a particular member or membersof the executive committee or the executive committee as a whole, is not discharginghis/her/their duties as they should, the registrar should proceed to remove the member/members or to dissolve the executive committee. However, if there are objectionsfrom a member, members or the subject executive committee on the proposed removal,the registrar, after having offered time for such objections, should convene a meetingof the general body of the society in keeping with the rules and regulations of theconstitution and the precept. If the investigation was conducted by the registrar he maysummon a general body or on the other hand if the investigation was conducted by theexecutive committee or the membership, a meeting summoned with the consent of1/3rd of the membership and reveal the findings of the investigation and express hisopinion on the issues involved to the general membership :

(a) Accordingly, the general meeting should remove the member or members of theexecutive committee who have been found guilty at that meeting and take necessarysteps in keeping with the constitution to fill the vacancies so created with membersfrom among the members other than the ones removed,

(b) In a situation where the executive committee becomes invalid as in clause (1)above, the membership could dissolve the executive committee and appoint a newExecutive committee comprising of persons not served in the previous committee.

However, if the general membership is not taking action to remove member foundguilty and appoint new members, the Registrar should order the removal of guiltymembers and appoint new members. On occasions where the executive committeeceases to function the Registrar could appoint an administrative body to administerthe society. An administrative body that is so appointed should have all the powers,as per the constitution, of the general membership.

(c) As a consequence of an examination or an investigation on books of accounts of aregistered society carried out as per article 41, if the registrar forms the opinionthat the executive committee in its entirety, is not performing as it should, theregistrar, having offered time for the executive committee to give reasons as towhy the committee should not be dissolved, should proceed to call a generalmeeting as per the rules and regulations and reveal the findings of the examinationand the opinion formed by him and notify the general body to appoint to replacethe subject executive committee with an alternative executive committee.However, when the general body does not act to appoint a new executive committeethe registrar has the power to appoint an Administrative Board to take the affairsof the society forward. The official period of a Board or Committee so appointedwill be in accordance with the provisions of article 43 (2).

Dissolution ofthe executivecommittee

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201924A

(d) The executive committee members so removed from office as per article 43.(1)(a), 43.(1) (b), 43.(1)(c), shall not be entitled to hold office or to be appointed toan office in any corporative society for a period of seven years.

(e)(i) If an executive committee member is removed from a motion of noconfidence in a general meeting of a registered society such members shouldnot be entitled to hold, to be elected or to be appointed to any office of aregistered society for a period of 7 years.

(ii) Similarly when an executive committee member or members have beenfound guilty after an examination or an investigation under article 41, theregistrar has powers to make an order on the accusations. If such an order isto be announced the registrar should grant an opportunity to the accusedperson or persons to give reasons as to why such an order should not beissued. Accordingly, an executive committee member found guilty ofmisconduct is not permitted to hold office, to be elected to office or to beappointed to an office for 7 years from the date of issuing such an order.Further if such person or persons are currently holding other office, theywill cease to hold such office by reason of this order.

(f) An Executive committee member removed from office due to a financialmisappropriation as per (a),(b),(c) or (e) (i) &(ii) above, is not entitle to holdoffice or to be elected or appointed to an office in any registered society. Thenames of such persons should be entered in the blacklisted register and Gazettedevery year and also, should be included in the Corporative Society’s website bythe registrar.

(2)(a) The executive committee, person or persons, appointed as per articles (1) (a) and(b) above should function in that capacity till the end of the time period of theCurrent executive committee he/they composed.

(b) While the executive committee so appointed under such circumstances have aperiod as mentioned in (2) (a) above, they should enjoy all the power, rights andprivileges just as an executive committee duly appointed.

(3) The executive committee, person or persons, appointed as per articles (1) (a) and (b)above should exercise all the power, rights and privileges just as an executive committeeduly appointed.

(4) If a person or a body of persons appointed as a result of circumstances described in43(1) (a) and (b), causes a loss to the society by conducting in violation of the rules ofthe precept and the constitution of the society such persons are individually and severallyresponsible for the losses caused to the society.

(5) A person or a body of persons appointed to take charge of the management of a societyunder this article and whose period expires as detailed in article 43.(2) (a) above, isresponsible for ensuring the appointment of a new executive committee to take over theaffairs of the society as per the rules of the constitution of the society.

(6) In considering the contents of this article it should not be presumed that the activitiesdescribed herein should have any bearing on the powers vested in the Registrar to cancelthe registration of a registered society as per article 45.

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(7) In the event where an executive committee of a registered society has become inactive,and as a result, if the general body at a duly summoned general meeting, passes a resolutionto request the registrar to appoint an administrative body to manage the society’s affairsand makes a request to the registrar accordingly, the registrar is empowered to appointan administrative board comprising not less than 3 persons. The Administrative board soappointed should function in keeping with the provisions in article 43. (2) (a)and theregistrar has the power to name the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman or both, as thecase may be, in such an instance.

9TH CHAPTER

Dissolution of an Executive Committee of a Registered Society

44.(1) As a result of an examination or an investigation into the books of accounts of aregistered society as per article 41(1) or due to any other reason, having received arequest from 2/3rds of the general membership for dissolution of the society, and alsohaving afforded time for objections against the requested dissolution by the membersand creditors of the society, if the registrar is of the opinion that the particular societyshould be dissolved, the registrar by an order under his signature could dissolve thesociety.

(2) Upon the issue of an order as in clause (1) above, a member, or a creditor, of the subjectsociety could appeal to the Minister within 60 days of the date of issue of that order.Upon receiving such an appeal, the Minister is bound to make a ruling on that appealwithin 60 days of the receipt of that appeal.

(3) When an order is issued cancelling the registration of a society, that order becomeseffective within 60 days of such issue in the absence of an appeal made against thatorder. In the event of an appeal against that order, that order does not become effectiveuntil the order is duly confirmed.

(4) When an order is made cancelling the registration of a society under article 44(1) above,the Registrar could appoint one or more persons to be in charge of the books and affairsof the society, until, either that order becomes effective or that order is confirmed/ notconfirmed by the minister in case of an appeal against that order. In such an event theexecutive committee or the person in charge of books and registers should hand overall such matters to the person or persons appointed by the registrar and thereafter, untilthe order becomes effective or otherwise, as the case may be, the executive committeeshould remain inactive.

45. Other than under the circumstances detailed in article 44 above, the registrar may cancel theregistration of a registered society when one or many of the following situations exist withregard to a registered society in the manner describe therein.Further, the registrar may not bebound by any claims made by any party against the subject society after the registration iseffectively cancelled.

(a) When it is a condition for registration that the society should have at least 20 membersfor the society to register and when the number of members falls below 20, the societyautomatically becomes unregistered.

Dissolution

Cancelling theRegistration ofa society

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201926A

(b) When a registered society has not commenced its activities after one year of itsregistration or when it has been inactive for two years up to the date before the order ofcancellation is issued under this article. In this situation the registrar may cancel theregistration by issuing an order in writing.

(c) When no person, member or executive committee member appears on behalf of aregistered society to claim ownership for the books, registers or any other matter thatis available. In this situation the registrar may cancel the registration by making a gazettenotification after giving a 3 months period through a public press advertisement. Further,the Registrar should not be bound by any claim made against a society once its registrationis canceled.

(d) Also, in situations when :

(i) there is obstructions to a person appointed by the Commissioner for the purposeof inspecting the books of accounts of the registered society,

(ii) there is obstructions for holding executive committee or general meetings of thesociety,

(iii) the annual audit is not updated as it should,

(iv) the responsibilities as regards the society’s depositors are not discharged properly,

(v) there is a request made to the registrar by not less than 2/3rds of the society’sgeneral membership.

the registrar in his own conviction has power to seek the recommendation of the Ministerto obtain a ruling from the Provincial Board of Ministers, to either incorporate thesubject society in to another registered society, to cancel the registration of the societyor to strike the society off the registration list of the Cooperative department. Havingobtained the ruling the subject society should be either incorporated in to anotherregistered society, undergo a cancellation of its registration or face a striking off fromthe registration list of the Cooperative department, depending on the ruling of the Boardof Ministers.

46. When the registration of a registered society is cancelled as per the provisions of article 44 orarticle 45, that society, from the date that cancellation becomes effective, hereinafter knownas the ‘Dissolution date’ should cease to function as a corporation.

However, it should be noted that the registrar as per this precept or as per other legal provisions,has incorporated the privileges of the society to a Liquidator or to Liquidators, appointed onbehalf of the society.

47. The Registrar may appoint one or more Liquidator when the registration of a registered societyis cancelled as above except under article 44 or sub articles (C ) and (d) under article 45.Accordingly, all the property of the subject society should be duly handed over to the liquidatoron the date such cancellation becomes effective.

48. (1). The liquidator or liquidators appointed as per article 47 should have the following powers,subject to the direction and supervision of the registrar and the limitations imposedunder article 49,

The effectCancelling theregistration

Liquidation ofa registration

Powers of aLiquidator

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(a) To determine from time to time the dues to the society’s assets from the members,former members and from the estates of deceased members.

(b) To announce the date, by a declaration or by notice, before which, the Creditorswhose names have not been entered in the books of the society should forwardtheir claims to be entered in the books or the date before which the creditors aredisowned through a distribution of assets prior to such claims are confirmed.

(c) To determine the priority basis on settlements to creditors as per the provisionsof this precept.

(d) To refer any detail or any dispute as per article 53(having understood that referenceto the society as a reference made to the auctioneer) to be arbitrated under thatarticle, and to file action on legal matters under his own name or title and topresent counter arguments on legal matters.

(e) To determine the quantum of the Liquidator’s fees and the proportion of that costseach party should bear.

(f) To issue directives on the disbursement after compiling the assets as may berequired in the closure of a society after settling the dues.

(g) To arbitrate on the claims made for and against the society if the prior approval ofthe registrar has been granted for the purpose.

(h) To convene a general meeting of the subject society that may be required to conducta proper liquidation.

(i) To take in to his personal custody, the books, registers and assets of the society.

(j) To auction the properties of the society.

(k) To maintain the affairs of the society to an extent required to settle productivelythe dues and close the society. However, nothing contained herein should be stowpower to an auctioneer of a Loan granting society to grant a particular loan.

(l) To organise activities to feasibly distribute the assets of the society once theregistrar has approved a proposal to distribute the assets.

(2) A Liquidator appointed under this precept, subject to the provisions made for the purpose,may enjoy powers as may be required to conduct duties under this article and as detailedin the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code (as required) to summon the stake holdersand witnesses, to compel them to attend, and also to compel them to produce books andregisters as required.

49. While the liquidator may exercise his powers subject to the management and directives ofthe registrar, the registrar has powers to;

(a) rescind, change or even issue a completely new directive with regard to the directivesissued by the liquidator.

(b) remove the auctioneer from the post.

Power ofregistraroverliquidation

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201928A

(c) direct to forward all books, registers and assets of the society.

(d) limit the powers of the auctioneer as per article 48 of the precept by issuing a writtendirective.

(e) Direct the liquidator to forward accounts, if and when the registrar feels necessary.

(f) arrange and audit of the liquidator’s accounts and to delegated powers to disburse theassets of the society.

(g) issue directions to pay the liquidator for his efforts.

(h) arbitrate on a dispute between the liquidator and a third party, a dispute that cannot beforwarded for arbitration under article 48(1)(c), and when the stake holder expressesagreement to be bound by a decision of such an arbitration.

(i) establish a fund titled Corporative Excess Fund account and direct all collections madeby the auctioneer to be credited to this account. Further this account should be made tofunction according to the rules by the Registrar.

50.(1) On an issue forwarded to an arbitrator under article 49, the parties are bound by thedecision of the arbitrator and that decision should be enforced as if it is an order issuedby the registrar under the said article.

(2) While a directive issued by the registrar or the arbitrator under article 49 or article 48should not be questioned in any civil courts, it should be enforced as if it is a rulingissued by a Civil Courts within whose jurisdiction the location of the registered officeof the society falls. However, a bank, who is a creditor of a society whose registrationhas been cancelled should have the right to appeal to the Minister against the directiveissued by the registrar or the arbitrator as per article 48 or 49, within 60 days of theissuance of that directive. The Minister should give a ruling on an appeal so madewithin 60 days from the date on which that appeal was made.

(3) In a situation where no appeal is made to the Minister within 60 days after a ruling isissued by the Registrar or by the arbitrator as per article 48 or article 49, such ruling ofthe registrar or the auctioneer, after the lapse of the said period, should become effective.Similarly, where an appeal has been made against that ruling to the Minister within thestipulated time the directive of the registrar or the auctioneer should not becomeeffective until the ruling on the appeal is made by the Minister.

51. Unless as expressed in the provisions of this precept on prior occasions, no civil courts shouldhave jurisdiction over matters concerning the dissolution of a society registered under thisprecept.

52.(1) When liquidating a society whose registration has been cancelled, the funds, includingthe reserve fund, subject to the provisions of this precept, should be used, first againstthe liquidating fees, then against debts guaranteed by the society towards the Governmentand the Provincial Government, then in meeting other trading obligation of the societyand thereafter to pay the share capital. Any further excess of funds available should beused, provided the constitution of the society permits, to pay dividends not exceeding10% of share value for periods in which no dividends have been declared and paid, andthen to pay a donation to the members for the period before dissolution for which nosuitable arrangement has been made on profits.

Executing theDirectives

Civil Courts& limitingThe court’sauthority

ConcludingLiquidation

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(2) If any creditor has not made a claim against the liquidator of the society for what is dueto him and thus if no payments were made, that fact should be published in the gazettenotification. Further, any legal matter (case) against the dues from a dissolved societymay not be entertained unless made within 90 days of that gazette notification.

(3) After settling the obligations as listed in clause (1) above of this article and settling anyclaim made through law as stated in clause (2), any excess available may be credited toan Excess Fund account established under this precept.

10TH CHAPTER

Disputes

53(1) A dispute relating to the trade or industry of a registered society are disputes -

(a) between, a member/ former member Vs a person who makes a claim for a member,former member or a decease member, or present and former officers/employeeor an heir or a legitimate agent of an officer/ employee,

(b) between member/former member/members /former members or a person whoclaims for a deceased member Vs the society, its executive committee or a presentand former employee/officer or an heir or a legitimate agent of an employee/officer,

(c) between the society or its executive committee Vs a present or former officer/employee or an heir or an agent of a deceased officer/ employee,

(d) between the society or its executive committee Vs a person who has transferred abusiness or part of it to the society,

(i) who happens to be a former employee/officer of another society,

(ii) who happens to be a member former member or a person who claims onbehalf of a deceased member,

(iii) who happens to be an officer/employee or a heir or a legitimate agent of anemployee/officer,

(e) between the society Vs another registered society (in which case the dispute shouldbe referred to the registrar for a ruling),

(f) between a present/former employee/Officer/employee/a heir or an agent of adeceased member/officer/employee Vs the society where the society has torecover a loan granted or a loss suffered, whether such recovery is accepted ornot, as defined by this sub article.

(2) The Registrar, having received a reference under clause (1) -

(a) may settle the dispute on his own accord or

(b) may refer to an arbitrator or arbitrators to do as suitable.

Resolutionof disputes

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201930A

(3)(a) A party that is not satisfied with the ruling of the arbitrator or arbitrators can makean appeal to the registrar against that ruling. Such an appeal to the registrar shouldbe made within 60 days of the issuance of that ruling, with reasons in writing as towhy that party is not satisfied with the ruling. If such an appeal is made by anaccused in a decisive case against a ruling given against him/her, 10% of the amountso ruled and if the appeal is made by the complainant, 10% of the amount demandedin a decisive case should be sent along with the appeal. However, the amount sorequired to be submitted as a deposit for an appeal, by one party or the other,should not be less that Rs. 1000/ and should not be more than Rs. 50,000/.

(b) The registrar should decline any appeal not made in compliance with sub article3(a) above.

(4) A party that has made an appeal to the registrar under clause (3) above may make arequest and obtain permission to present him/her self before the registrar through anagent and make a presentation on the dispute to the registrar.

(5) The registrar’s ruling under either clause (2) or clause (3) of this article should be finaland it should not be questioned in a Civil Court of law.

(6) If no appeal is made to the registrar as per sub article (3) above against the ruling issuedby an arbitrator as per sub article (2) above, or if such facility to appeal is renounced orwithdrawn, the ruling issued should be final and it may not be questioned in a Civil Courtof law.

(7) Provisions of the Statute barred ordinance should not be applicable to a claim which isthe subject of a dispute under this article.

(8) If a doubt surfaces as to whether the dispute referred to the registrar is a dispute ontrade and industry of the particular society, the ruling of the registrar on the matter willbe final and it may not be questioned in a Civil Court of law.

(9) The term ‘Member’ under this article may include Associate members as well.

(10) As per this article the registrar and the umpire appointed to arbitrate should be definedas a public servant as per the Penal Code.

54(1) If no appeal is made against a ruling (hereinafter referred to as ‘the ruling’) made eitherby the registrar or by an arbitrator on matters duly referred to them under article 53 andif no appeal is duly made to the registrar against that ruling as provided in the article,known as a ruling and the conclusion in such ruling involves payment of money fromone party to the other and in a situation where such payment together with the fees andinterests is not paid, the registrar, having termed that party who has not paid as the ‘Evader’as per this article and may subject that party to -

(a) an issuance of a certificate to a District Courts that has jurisdiction over the districtthat the ‘evader‘ is either residing or has immobile and mobile property, givingthe name of the evader together with particulars of monies due, having added theinterest and charges if any,

(b) an issuance of a certificate, giving the name and address of the evader andparticulars of the monies due, to a Magistrate of a division that has jurisdictionover the last known place of residence or place of business of the evader,

Executing adecision ora directive

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(2) In an instance where a certificate has been issued to a District Court as in clause (1)paragraph (a) of the article, the District Court, having received that certificate and inorder to recover the dues stated in the certificate, should be directed to issue a writ ofthe Court (askeesi) to the Fiscal officer empowering him/her to seize the whole, orpart, of the evaders mobile and immobile property, or a portion that the Fiscal officerconsiders to be adequate to recover the stated amount. In disposing the property soseized article No’s from No. 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure Code may be invoke asrelevant with suitable alterations.

(3) In an instance where a certificate has been issued to a Magistrate as in paragraph (b) inclause (1) above, the magistrate, having received that certificate and in order to recoverthe dues stated in the certificate, should summon the evader before him/her to ascertainreasons as to why further action should not be taken against the evader to recover thedues. If the evader fails to forward satisfactory reasons the Magistrate in a situationwhere it could not be penalised by a term of imprisonment but only a by a fine, maypenalise the evader for an offence that could be penalised only by imposing a fine. In this,the provisions of the article 291 of Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 (except itsparagraphs (a) and (b) of clause No. (1) should be relevant and the Magistrate could makean order within his powers at the time such criminal punishment is imposed. When theevader agrees to pay a fine in place of the dues, the Magistrate may order the evader topay by depositing funds to an account specified by the Registrar or in any other mannerand when the legitimacy of the receipt is established, a directive may be issued by themagistrate treating the monies as being paid to the courts.

(4) An evader punished with imprisonment for not paying a fine as per article 291 of theCriminal Procedure Code No.15 of 1979 may not be discharged for paying an amountof money specified in the certificate as per article 54(1)(b)

(5) The Registrar, when issuing a certificate under this article, by sending that message,personally, by registered post or by telegram, has to ensure that the message reachesthe evader. Yet, the non-receipt of that message by the evader is not a reason to do awaywith the legal provisions available under this article.

(6) On legal matters and provisions under this article, a District court or a Magistrate shouldhave no powers to, question the veracity, examine the truthfulness and to sit on judgementon the certificated issue and the statements made by the registrar.

(7) Monies collected by sale under clause (2) or collected on account of a fines paid orrecovered under clause (3) should, be remitted to the Registrar by the District Courtsor the Magistrate. The registrar may appropriate the money as directed by the rules andorders of the situation.

11TH CHAPTER

Special Provisions relevant to Registered Societies.

55(1) When an application for membership of a registered society by a prospective memberis declined by that society, that prospective member may make an appeal to the Registraragainst that rejection. The registrar may decide on that appeal within 60 days of receivingthat appeal and that decision should be final for all intends and purposes and the subjectsociety is bound to act accordingly.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201932A

(2) When an issue crops up as to whether a member of a registered society has been appointedto a particular office of the registered society duly, whether a particular officer of thesociety has ceased to function in that capacity, whether the executive committee meetingsand the general meetings of the society have been held duly or on any other similaradministrative matter, the registrar should give a ruling on all such matters and thedecision of the registrar should be considered as final.

56. When a registered society, obtains an advance, loan or a grant from the Government or Fromthe Provincial Government, or obtains such facility from a Government institution or aGovernment associated institution with the recommendation of the registrar, or obtains anyother similar grant, loan or an advance such receipts should be subject to the followingconditions :

(1) When it is required for a registered society, in order to achieve its stated objectives, topossess a building, land or any other mobile or immobile property by way of, a purchase,a lease, a gift, or in any other way, or similarly when it is necessary to dispossess a land,building or any other property by way of sale, lease, mortgage, in exchange, or in anyother way, the prior approval of the registrar should be obtained in writing by that society.

(2)(a) if a member, who is found guilty under article 41 where, an examination is madein to the affairs of the society, or where an investigation was done in to the booksof accounts, or who is expelled or suspended under clause (2) of article 40, hasbeen re-elected in a subsequent period since the above examinations/enquiries/investigations were concluded, such member should be removed from office as,he/ she is not permitted to hold office for a period of seven years. Similarly. amember on whom a decision has been made under articles 43(1)(a) or 43(1)(b)is not entitled to hold office in any corporative society.

(b) If an officer of a registered society, in the opinion of the registrar, is found to benot performing his/her duty as he/she should or as efficiently and productively asrequired, or found wanting in duty in any other way under an inspection or aninvestigation done under article 41, irrespective of what is stated in this preceptor in any other written law, that officer may be suspended from his post by awritten directive, pending an inquiry, after having afforded time for that officer tosubmit reasons in his defence. If the officer is found guilty at the investigationmentioned that officer cannot present himself for election to any office in aregistered corporative society. Further such an officer is ineligible to be appointedto any office of a registered society within 7 years from the date that officer isremoved from office.

(c) If an officer of a registered society, in the opinion of the registrar, is found to benot performing his/her duty as he/her should or as efficiently and productively asrequired or found wanting in duty in any other way under an inspection or aninvestigation done under article 41, irrespective of what is stated in this preceptor in any other written law, that officer may be suspended from his post by awritten order, pending an inquiry, after having afforded time for that officer tosubmit reasons in his defence. If the officer is found guilty at the investigationmentioned that officer cannot present himself for election to any office in aregistered corporative society. Further such an officer may not be appointed toany office of a registered society within 7 years from the date that officer isremoved from office. However, if the subject officer is not satisfied with theinvestigation that resulted in his removal from office, the officer concerned maymake an appeal to the Sothern Province Cooperative Commission within 30 days ofthat removal. In such a situation the ruling given by the Southern ProvincialCooperative Commissioner should be final.

certainother mattersregistrar hasto decide on

Specialconditions

SuspensionOf officers& employeesand terminations

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

57. If the Registrar is of the opinion that the management of a particular registered society requiressome additional adequacy as to its capacity to ensure the protection of its depositor’s deposits,the rights of its members, the security of the investments and deposits made by the government/the Provincial Government or the deposits made in goods and trade arrangements, and thereforeforms the opinion that more members need to be nominated to the society’s executivecommittee, the registrar may so appoint a number of members that he considers is necessary.However, this should be subject to the rule that the number of members in the executivecommittee should be less than half the number of members in the society. The registrar alsohas powers to appoint the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman or both to the executive committeeand when that happens the members who presently function in those capacities may cease tofunction by virtue of those appointments. Thus, irrespective of whatever is mentioned in writtenlaw, after such appointments are made, the quorum of the executive committee should be anynumber more than half the number in the executive committee (including the numberappointed).

CHAPTER 12

Rules

58.(1) The Minister in charge of the subject could enact all rules regarding the formulation ofthe policies, the enactment of provisions and the empowerment of work proceduresunder this precept.

(2) Such rules may, without affecting the generality of the powers bestowed specially or byarticle (1)

(a) determine the conditions under which a registration of a society is made and theprocedure required to apply for a registration.

(b) determine, the eligibility of the persons who could become members and theconditions the members should follow in the conduct of the society, the procedurein enlisting and electing members to the society from time to time and enactprovisions for the duties the members should perform, including theircontributions, before they could exercise their rights as members.

(c) enact provisions, for the resignation and expelling of members and for thepayments to be made to expelled and resigned members and for the responsibilitiesof the former members.

(d) determine the number of members in a registered society and the limit that societycould impose on such membership.

(e) make provisions to determine value of the relationship of deceased members andto decide on the heir of the deceased member and the method of transfer of thatvalue.

(f) determine the maximum number of shares or share in capital of the society amember of a registered society may hold subject to the provisions in clause (3)of this article.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201934A

(g) determine, the conditions under which the dividends of a registered society couldbe declared and the maximum quantum of such dividends that could be paid outfrom society funds.

(h) determine, on the General meetings and its conducting procedures, the powers tobe exercised at such meetings and the circumstances under which a particularperson may not be eligible to become a member of the executive committee orthe regional or branch executive committee of a registered society

(i) make provisions with regard to the, appointment, suspension and dismissal of theexecutive committee and other officers of the registered society, on the workethics of the executive committee and of other officers and on the powers to beexercised and the duties to be performed by the Executive committee membersand other officers.

(j) determine why and how a society should have a constitution and the procedure tobe followed in making, amending and rescinding a constitution and the conditionsassociated with the making, amending and rescinding a constitution.

(k) determine the books of accounts to be maintained by a registered society and toorder the publication of a Balance sheet depicting the society’s assets and liabilitiesat periodic intervals.

such audits, to administer and support existing societies, to propagate corporativeactivities, to promote corporative education and local and foreign training, to worktowards the development of the corporative movement, to meet the requirementsof the registrar in attending to legal matters, to make arrangements to obtaincontributions from all societies to the Southern Provincial Council Corporativedevelopment fund established under this precept, to prevent the evasion ofcorporative fund payments and to administer and manage the funds of the registeredsocieties.

(m) determine the reports to be submitted to the registrar, their manner, regularity andthe persons who should prepare such reports.

(n) make provisions to arrange the manner and as to who should certify copies ofcontents of a registered society’s books of accounts when issued as required.

(o) make provisions to prepare and maintain a list of members in relation to theirshares when the responsibilities of each member to the society is dependent onthe quantum of shares they hold.

(p) make provisions to create and maintain a reserve fund pronouncing the objectivessuch funds may be utilised and to facilitate investment of funds of registeredsocieties.

(q) determine the method and manner in which a trading dispute could be solved andwhen there is a breach of a trading agreement, constitution or violation of ethicsin selling goods through a society and the method of assessing the loss in suchsituations.

(r) determine the method and manner in appointing arbitrator or arbitrators and theprocedure of conducting arbitrations as against the implementation of the decisions

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

of arbitrators vs. the decision of the registrar and the monies to be deposited withthe registrar on account of appeals made.

(s) determine the period within which a dispute could be referred to the registrar.

(t) determine the conditions and the procedure under which an executive committeeof a registered society could be elected.

(u) determine the procedure to be followed in purchasing acquiring, selling anddisposing property.

(v) determine the practices and procedures to be followed in requesting financial aidfrom the Government or the Provincial Council.

(w) While it is possible to make an appeal to the Minister against rulings given by theregistrar, this precept may determine on issues that are expressly not stated.

(x) determine the circumstances under which it would be possible to makeappeals against the directives issued and the procedure followed, by theliquidator as per article 47.

(y) make provisions to establish and maintain a Corporative development fund accountas per article 37(1) (a) and determine the manner in which and the items on whichthose funds could be dispensed.

(z) make provision to establish and maintain an Excess fund account as per article53(3) and determine the manner in which and the items on which those fundscould be disbursed.

(a1) issue directives to make provisions to hold election to all area executiveCommittees of Multi-Purpose Corporative Societies and to hold theAnnual General meetings of all other registered Corporative Societiestogether with activities associated with those events.

(b1) determine on the rules and the specimen structures under which appealscould be made, cases examined, and suitable action taken under this preceptand also on the fees to be charged, the procedure to be followed togetherwith associated activities.

(3) No rules shall be enforced unless approved by the Southern Provincial Council.

(4) Once published in the gazette after having obtained the Provincial Council approvalwith notification as per Clause (3) above, all the rules as per this precept should belegitimate and enforceable as if enacted here.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201936A

CHAPTER 13

Debts due to the Government and the Provincial Council

59.(1) Monies due on debts/loans or on guarantees, to the Government or to the ProvincialCouncil by a registered society or a member, former member or an officer of a registeredSociety, should be recovered as per the provisions of the Government Creditors ordinanceand as per article 39(2) of this precept, such debts should receive priority over otherdues of the Society in situations described in Article 39.

(2). Monies due from a registered Society to the government or to the Provincial Councilmay be recovered first from the assets of the Society. Secondly, with regard to a Societylimited by liability, it is recoverable from the members subject to the limits applicableon liability and thirdly, with regard to unlimited Societies, it is recoverable frommembers with no limit on liability.

CHAPTER 14

Fund Accounts

Cooperative Development Fund Account & the Excess Fund Account

60.(1) An Account titled Southern Province Cooperative Development Fund (hereinafter calledthe ‘Cooperative Development Fund Account’) will be established with the objective ofdeveloping the corporative development activities within the Southern Province.

(2) This fund account should be in compliance with Section iii of the Provincial CouncilAct, No.47 of 1987.

(3) The following monies should be credited to this Fund account

(a) Monies received from registered Societies under Article 37(1) of this precept,

(b) Monies received as funds or as donations, contributions, from the government orthe Provincial Council,

(c) Donations and contributions received from Cooperative Societies or from individuals or institutions.

(4). The registrar may expend the monies of this fund accounts on account of either one ormany of the following purposes subject to the conditions specified hereinafter :

(a) On Cooperative Educational extension work, propagation work and Training,

(b) To increase the efficiency of the Cooperative Societies,

(c) To support Cooperative Societies,

(d) To meet all legal expense in managing the Cooperative Development Fund account,

(e) To meet all legal expenses incurred by the Southern Provincial CouncilCooperative Development Department in the course of implementing this precept.

ProvisionsTo recoverLoans dueTo government& Provincial C.

CooperativeDevelopmentFundManagementAccount

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(f) To meet legal expense of an officer who may have been subjected to legal actionwhile performing his duties under the corporative law, when Government legalassistance is not available.

(g) To meet expenses that may be incurred in performing the audits of corporativesocieties and in meeting expenses connected to development work.

(h) To meet expenses incurred in updating the Cooperative society member’slist and the voters list.

(i) To bear the expenses in connection with persons and institutions directly engagedin the corporative movement such as the society member, executive committeemember, employee ect..

(j) To meet expenses in the administration of the Corporative Development FundAccount.

(5) To administer the Cooperative Development Fund Account, the Commissioner shouldappoint a committee of seven persons and that committee will be the Fund AdministeringCommittee. The committee will consist of,

(a) The Registrar as the chairman of this committee while Deputy CooperativeDevelopment Commissioner ( Administration), an officer nominated by theSecretary to the subject Minister, Assistant Commissioner of CooperativeDevelopment (Development), One Assistant Commissioner to represent the 3districts, The Accountant of the department and one representative from the threeDistrict Director boards of the district corporative societies to represent thecorporative societies.

(b) The quorum of a committee meeting is 4 and the committee will meet whenrequired, consider the claims made and decide on the payments.

(6)(a) The Financial year of the Fund Account should be the normal calendar year; fromJanuary to December.

(b) Within three months from the end of every financial year, the Registrar shouldforward a report to the Provincial Council through the Secretary to the Ministerof Cooperative Development.

(c) The provisions of article 154 of the Constitution which deals with the auditing ofstate institution accounts and the Sothern Provincial council rules should berelevant in the auditing of the Corporative Fund account.

61.(1) Southern province’s this excess fund account (hereinafter known as the Excess Fundaccount) whose tasks is settle the liabilities and close down the societies whoseregistration has been cancelled should be consistent with section 111 of No. 42 of theProvincial Council Act, of 1987.

(2) This excess fund account should be credited with the following funds;

(a) The amount lying to the credit of bank accounts and the cash in hand of the societieswhose registration has been cancelled, at the time of cancellation of the registration.

Excess Fund.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201938A

(b) Amounts recovered by the liquidators.

(c) Any type of funds that are due on transactions performed prior to cancellation

(d) Amounts realised in disposing the assets.

(3) The Registrar could expend funds on account of expenses as per clauses (1) and (2) ofarticle 52 of this precept. However, the total amount of such expenses paid on behalf aof a particular society should not exceed the total of funds collected against that society.

(4) If an excess of funds remains, after having met the expenses mentioned in clause (3)above, the registrar may authorize the use of such excess funds on one or more of thefollowing tasks :

(a) To purchase shares in any registered primary society or to support such a societyin any other way as ordered by the registrar.

(b) To assist a registered society to purchase its non-mobile assets required in itsoperations.

(c) To help a liquidator when a civil case has been instituted against him on corporativesociety liquidations carried out by him/her.

(d) To contribute to any other organisation with the objective of helping any particularsociety or societies in general, registered under this precept.

(e) To meet expenses incurred in administering the Corporative Development fund.

(5) The Commissioner will appoint a committee of five persons to administer the excessfund account and that committee will be the ‘Excess fund management Board’. Thatcommittee will consist of;

(a) The Registrar as the chairman of the committee, Deputy Commissioner ofCooperative Development (Administration), an officer of the Ministry nominatedby the Secretary of the Ministry, an Assistant Commissioner of CooperativeDevelopment and the Accountant of the Cooperative department.

(b) The Quorum of the committee is three and the committee may meet as required,consider the claims made and take decisions to pay or not to pay as the case maybe.

(6)(a) The financial year of the Excess Fund Account should be the calendar year fromJanuary to December.

(b) Within three months after the end of every financial year, the registrar through theSecretary to the Minister of Cooperative should submit a report of the Excess Fundaccount to the Provincial Council.

(c) The provisions of the article 154 of the Sri Lanka Government Constitution onstate institution Audits and the Southern province’s rules should be applicable tothe Excess Fund account audits.

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

15TH CHAPTER

Miscellaneous Matters

62. Irrespective of what is stated in this precept, the Minister may, as required in a situation by aspecial order, subject to the conditions declared by him, exempt a particular society from aparticular rule stated in this precept.

63. The Minster may, by a special or general order, announce the exemption of a particular societyor a group of societies registered under the provision of this precept or declare that a particularsociety or group of societies is subject to a change in the provisions as from a particular datespecifically mentioned in the directive issued.

64.(1) No organisation, except with expressed permission from the Minister, should use the

words, ‘Eksath sahakara’ or ‘Samupakara’ in Sinhalese, ‘Aikkiya’ or ‘Kutturav’ in Tamil or ‘Cooperative’ in English, wholly or in part, or as a title other than by a registered Cooperative society in the conduct of its business or industry. However, a person or an organization that has been conducting its business or industry under whatever name or title before 22nd September 1921, that person, organization or his/her/its heir will not be affected by what is stated in here.

(2) Whoever the person who acts in contravention of this article, once found guilty at aSummary trial in a Magistrate Court, will be subject to a maximum fine of rupees tenthousand and in a situation where the offence continues to be committed after conviction,an additional fine of Rs.100/ would be imposed for every single day that the offence iscontinued to be committed after having found guilty.

65.(1) In the event of, an audit under article 39, an examination under article 41, an investigationin to the books of accounts or on a closure of books of accounts at a liquidation of aregistered society, if it could be observed that certain monies or assets are due to thesociety from a person or a group of persons, a current officer/employee or an ex officer/employee, who had been engaged in the formation or in the management of that registeredsociety, due to the use of society funds in violation of the provisions of, either thisprecept or any other precept, or rules enacted under such provisions, or as per theprovisions of the constitution of the society, or the executive orders of the society, orthe financial regulations sanctioned by the registrar or the common provisions issuedby the registrar or by the Cooperative Employees Commission, the Registrar, upon arequest made either by himself/herself, the executive committee, a member, a creditor,the liquidator or a contributor, should inquire in to the conduct of such person/ group ofpersons and order as appropriate to;

(a) recover the full amount or a part of it together with an interest element the registrarmay consider appropriate,

(b) reposes such property or part of it to the society, or

(c) contribute an amount of money determined to be sufficient as compensationtowards the assets of the society.

Minister’s specialpower to exempt aa society fromregistration/prescriptions.

Minister’sPower toExempt aSociety fromPrecept’sprovisions.

Limitingthe use of‘corporative’

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201940A

However, before such an order is issued, the registrar should offer some reasonabletime to the person or group of persons so alleged to furnish reasons as to whysuch an order should not be issued against them. If that member is an employee,the executive committee could order the termination of his services.

(2) In the event where an order has been made under clause (1) above to recover certainmonies or to make a contribution as compensation towards the assets of the registeredsociety, and when such order has been disregarded an application may be made with acertificate as per article 54(1)(a) of this precept to a Magistrate in whose purview theplace of business of the society is registered or in case when the order is made againsta person, a group of persons, an officer or an employee, the area where that person orthat group of persons, that officer or employee resides. Thereafter, that amount may berecovered by way of a fine imposed on that person, group of persons, officer oremployee as a punishment for an offence not liable to be punished by a term ofimprisonment but by an offence liable to be punished by imposing a fine. This recoveryshould be in line with the article 291 (except its (a) and (c) paragraphs of clause (1)).Further, the Magistrate may also execute any other order relevant to this punishment atthe time of imposing this fine. However, the provision in this article may not bestowany right or power on the Magistrate to examine, verify or judge the legitimacy or theappropriateness of the registrar’s action with regard to this recovery.

(3) The contents of this article however should not be interpreted to mean or imply that aperson or group of persons encountered under clause (1) above, stands exonerated ofall other legal action brought against him/her/them under a different provision in law,simply because an order has been made under this provision.

66.(1) The Chairman and every member of the executive committee of a registered societyshould forward to the registrar, a personal assets and liability statement in the prescribedformat every year by registered post. The subject statement should reflect the status ofthe members assets and liabilities for a particular year as at 31st March of that year inthe following detail;

(a) All assets and liabilities of his/ her own self,

(b) All assets and liabilities of his/her heir,

(c) All assets and liabilities of his/ her every child.

(2) The declaration as above under clause (1) should be made by the Chairman and everymember of the executive committee of a registered society and should be made withinthree months of such election or appointment and unless he/she ceases to continue inoffice, on the 1st day of June in every year on a continuous basis from the day of the firstdeclaration.

(3) A member elected or appointed to the executive office of a registered society or to theDistrict or Pradeshiya Executive committee, should within 14 days of such appointmentforward by registered post an affidavit to the registrar declaring that he/ she is notineligible to be elected/ appointed to such office.

(4) A person who does not comply with provisions in clauses (2) and (3) above will beconsidered to have renounced his/her office by virtue of that act alone. Thereafter thatperson/member may not be eligible to hold any office till the end of the remainder ofthat office period.

Assets andLiabilityStatements& Affidavits.

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

(5) If a declaration made under the above clauses (2) and (3) is found/proved to be false aperson/member who made that declaration will not be eligible to hold any office of acorporative society for a period of seven years from the date such declaration wasconfirmed.

67. Subsequent to an audit or an inspection of the books of accounts of a registered society asprovided in article 39 of this precept, if an employee, a member or an officer in his/hercapacity, having been in charge of, having had the proprietorship over or having had the custodyof, a certain asset, property or monies of the registered society, were found to havemisappropriated such asset, property or monies or are unable to account for some monies asper the books kept or signed and certified by that officer, member or employee in theirrespective capacities, it would be legitimate for the registrar to order such member, officeror employee to reimburse or forward the value of such assets properties or monies.

Further, if that officer, employee or the member has failed to reimburse or forward the valueof subject assets, properties or monies as detailed in the direction issued by the registrar, thatofficer, employee or member would be guilty of the offence of criminal breach of trust andupon pronouncing guilty at asummary trial before a Magistrate would be penalised in twoways, by imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten years and also, by way of a fine. Thispenalty should be enforced irrespective of whether such imposition exceeds the generaljudicial power of the Magistrate.

68.(1)(a) It is the responsibility of the current executive committee of every registeredsociety to make arrangements to elect a new executive committee to office withinthree months of the expiry of the period of office of the current executivecommittee.

(b) If that responsibility is not discharged as stated, the registrar may consider thecurrent executive committee as dissolved and appoint a Board of Management toadminister the society. That Board of management will enjoy the powers, privilegesand rights of an executive committee duly appointed by the society.

(c) That board of management should summon a general meeting of the society as perthe constitution and elect an executive committee within a period of 6 months oftheir appointment.

(2)(a) Further the Registrar has the power to appoint a Board of management for aregistered society under any of the following circumstances.

(i) In a situation where the executive committee has resigned, and it is notpossible to elect a succeeding executive committee.

(ii) When the general meeting has either evaded its responsibility or have nottaken steps to appoint an executive committee.

(iii) When the general body has proposed and sanctioned that the management ofthe society should be done by a Board appointed by the registrar for aprescribed period.

Penalties forBreach of trust

Power toAppoint aBoard ofManagement

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201942A

(b) The Board of management when appointed under above circumstance should callfor a general meeting and facilitate the election of an executive committee withinsix months of their appointment. The Board of management so appointed, mayexercise the rights powers and privileges of an executive committee dulyappointed.

(3)(a) Further, in a situation where it is not permissible to comply with article 68(1)such as when the Courts have issued an interim injunction or in a situation wherethe General body or the executive committee has been rendered inoperative by aninterim or final order of the judiciary, the Commissioner should present facts tothe Courts through a motion and obtain permission to appoint a Board ofmanagement. Such a Board may exercise the power privileges and the rights of anexecutive committee duly appointed.

(b) The said board of management may, unless ordered otherwise by the Courts,facilitate the election of an executive committee within six months of itsappointment.

(4) In addition to this article, the registrar has been conferred with the power to appoint aBoard of management also by articles 38, 43, 56 and 57.

(5) The Commissioner must get the consent of the Minister when appointing a Board ofManagement under the Article 38, 43, 56, 57 and 68.

69. It is legitimate for an officer of the Cooperative Development Department to investigate orto conduct an examination or to direct prosecution under chapter XV11 of the CriminalProcedure Code No. 45 of 1979, on a particular issue of a registered society.

70. Irrespective of whatever is available in any other written law, the registrar may, at any timehe/she considers opportune,

(1) request information on a bank transaction entered in to by any registered society.

(2) Request the copy of a leger account maintained by the bank on behalf of a registeredsociety, as it is.

(3) order a bank to forward a cheque paid by the bank to the credit of the society with thecounter sanctioning of the society.

71. The provisions of the Companies act and the Trade Union Ordinance or provisions of theprecepts that amend those Acts should not be applicable to the societies registered under thisprecept.

72.(1) The Cooperative societies registered under Cooperative Act, No. 5 of 1972, amended

By the Cooperative Amendment Act, No.32 of 1983 and Cooperative Amendment Special Provisions Act, No.11 of 1992 and those registered under Cooperative societies (special provisions) Act, No. 34 of 1970, are considered as Cooperative societies registered under this precept and therefore, should follow this precept. The members and officers of such societies should treat their legal, constitutional, executive committee orders, disputes and appeals procedures etc. as procedures enacted under this precept.(2) All the rules in force at the time of commencement of this precept, to the extent thatthose rules fall in line with the provisions of this precept, should be considered as rules

As to whoWho shouldFile & prosecuteCases

to obtain bankinformation

Company’s Act& Trade UnionOrdinance

Power to executeAnd amendcurrentlaws and theway forward

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2019

that are made under this precept and such rules should be in force, until new rules areenacted in place under article 58.

(3) Prior to the establishment of this precept, any appointments made or directives issued,notices and notifications issued or considered to have been issued, verdicts issued orconsidered to have been issued by arbitrators, civil and other Court cases filed orconsidered to have been filed and disputes that have arisen, should be considered as faras possible as accomplished, issued and arisen under this precept.

73.(1) As per this precept, any member, officer or employee of a registered society, whowilfully evade or refuse to abide by an order or to supply an item of information requestedby the registrar or by a person duly authorised by the registrar,orany person who disobey summons, or a legitimate written order issued under this precept,deliberately or without a reasonable excuse,orany person who refuses to supply certain information that has been prescribed by aperson empowered to do so under this preceptora member, Officer or employee of a registered society who submits false information,is guilty of having committed an offence under this precept.

(2) A person who has committed an offence under clause (1) above, having found guilty at asummary trial before a Magistrate, should be subjected to an imprisonment for a periodnot exceeding 2 years in one of the two ways or to a fine not exceeding Rs. 50,000/ orto the fine and the imprisonment both. The person should be subjected to Penalty,irrespective of whether it exceeds the general judicial power of a magistrate.

(3) A person penalised under clause (2) above should be disqualified from holding Office,or being appointed to an office, of a registered corporative society.

74.(1) In an instance where a registered society has committed an offence and if an obligationhas been breached in the process, the officers concerned is bound by the constitution todischarge that obligation or in the absence of such an officer, the entire membership ofthe executive committee, unless proved that the subject member has been either unawarethat he/she was committing an offence or has taken every conceivable effort to preventthat offence from taking place, would be subjected to the same penalty that the officerconcerned would have been subjected to.

(2) It is not permissible under this precept, to file civil or criminal action, either against theRegistrar, against the Deputy commissioners, against the Senior AssistantCommissioners, against the Assistant Commissioners or any other person empoweredby the Registrar as per the provisions of this precept, on an issue that has arisen duringthe course of duty performed with good intentions by any of the above officers.

75. A registered society will have no authority to incur or sanction any expenses for the purposeof maintaining a Court case against any action taken by or, the decisions arrived at, by theregistrar, in accordance with the provisions of this precept.

76. Unless the terms used in this precept are called for definition, the term ‘constitution’shouldmean the constitutions currently registered and the amendments registered there to, and inforce within the Southern Provincial Council.

Penalty fornot adheringto the precept

Indemnity ofThe Registraretc.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'04'09PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.201944A

The term ‘Executive Committee’ should mean the management body that has assumed to managethe affairs of the cooperative society, the Board of Directors of a registered society andincludes persons appointed by the registrar under articles 43,44 and 55.

The term ‘officer’ should mean the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, the Secretary, Treasurer orother executive committee members who have been elected by the membership or dulyappointed to the office of a registered society or branch.

The term ‘Provincial Council’ should mean the Southern Provincial Council.

The term ‘Minister’ should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of cooperative in theSouthern Provincial Council .

The term ‘Primary Society’ should mean a registered society, other than a society formed fora particular purpose or to accomplish a task as per paragraphs 36(1)(b), (c) and (D).

The term ‘Rule’ should mean the rules enacted or considered to have been enacted under thisprecept.

The term ‘Employee’ should mean a person employed by and being a paid a salary or wagesfromthe cooperative society’s funds.

The term ‘Government fund’ should include all loans, advances, donations, grants or other suchcontributions made by the Government or the Southern Provincial Council, the advances,donations, grants and subsidies made as per articles 59 and 60 of the precept, monies andloans obtained from other institutions with the recommendation or the sanction of theregistrar and monies payable by the registrar.

The term ‘Registrar’ should mean the Southern Provincial Council cooperative DevelopmentCommissioner appointed to discharge the duties of a Corporative society registrar underthis precept.

The term ‘Officer of the Cooperative Department’ should include the Deputy CooperativeDevelopment commissioner or registrar, Senior Area Assistant Commissioner ofCooperative development, Assistant Commissioner of Cooperative Development, DistrictDevelopment officers, Head Quarter Development officers and Cooperative developmentofficers.

The term ‘Registered society’ should mean a society or association registered or consideredto have been registered under this precept.

The term ‘Member’ should mean the persons who caused the application to be registered as asociety and those who have been enrolled as members subject to the rules and theconstitution subsequent to the registration.

The term ‘Full Member’ should mean a member who has paid up the share capital prescribed bythe constitution and who has completed one year after being sanctioned by the membership.The share capital has to be completed within a year to be admitted as a full member.

77. In the event of an inconsistency in the meaning expressed between the Sinhala language andthe Tamil language versions of this precept, the meaning of the Sinhala language version willprevail.

The prevalenceof SinhalaversionIn case of aninconsistency

04 -888

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.