PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE(AMENDMENT)

————————

[Bill No. 286]

————————

Presented by the Minister of Justice and Prison Reformson 11th of July, 2019

(Published in the Gazette on June 17, 2019)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

——————

This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 byinserting section 144A in that Act and the legal effect of the amendment is to make provisionsto empower the Magistrate to dispense personal attendance of a suspect or accused in courtunder the circumstances specified in that section.

1Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

Short title.

Insertion ofnew section144A in theAct, No. 15of 1979.

25

L. D.- O. 5/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDUREACT, NO. 15 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Amendment) Act, No. of 2019.

2.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 144 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No.15 of 1979 and shall have effect as section144A of that Act:-

144A. (1) The Magistrate may, at hisdiscretion, dispense with the personalattendance of a suspect or accused in court, inrespect of whom criminal proceedings havebeen instituted before such Magistrate, forextending the period of detention or for anyother purpose, at the end of each detentionperiod, or on each trial date.

(2) The personal attendance of the suspector accused may be so dispensed with, on anapplication made by the relevant person, asspecified in subsection (3), if the Magistrate issatisfied that the personal attendance of suchsuspect or accused in court may be dispensedwith, on any one or more of the groundsspecified in subsection (4).

(3) An application under subsection (2), inrespect of a suspect or accused, shall be madeby –

(a)the Attorney General; or

“Personalattendance ofthe suspect oraccused maybe dispensedwith, underspecialcircumstances.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)2

5

10

15

20

25

30

(b)the suspect or accused himself, orhis Attorney- at- Law, as the casemay be; or

(c)the officer in charge of the relevantpolice station; or

(d)the Superintendent of the prisonwherein the suspect or accused isdetained.

(4) The Magistrate may dispense with thepersonal attendance of the suspect or accusedunder subsection (1), on the followinggrounds:-

(a)where there is a threat or anapprehension of serious harm to thelife of the suspect or accused;

(b)where public reaction to the offencealleged to have been committed bythe suspect or accused is likely togive rise to a breach of the peace;

(c)where there is a likelihood of thesuspect or accused escaping fromdetention or being involuntarilyremoved from detention; or

(d)where there is a likelihood of thesuspect or accused obstructing theproceedings of court.

(5) Where a Magistrate dispenses with thepersonal attendance of a suspect or an accusedin court, under subsection (1), the reasons forthe same shall be recorded in writing and suchsuspect or accused shall be permitted-

3Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

(a)to be represented in court by anAttorney- at- Law; and

(b)to make his representation throughcontemporaneous audio-visuallinkage, where such facilities areavailable.

(6) Where the place of detention of suchsuspect or accused is within the judicialdivision of the Magistrate who dispensed withthe personal attendance of such suspect oraccused in court, such Magistrate shall visitsuch place of detention not later than forty eighthours of calling the case, and shall look intothe well-being of the suspect or accused sodetained.

(7) Where the place of detention of thesuspect or accused is situated outside thejudicial division of the Magistrate whodispensed with the personal attendance of suchsuspect or accused in court, it shall be the dutyof such Magistrate to forthwith communicate,in the prescribed Form, with the Magistratehaving jurisdiction over the relevant judicialdivision and request him to visit the place ofdetention of the suspect or accused, for thepurpose referred to in subsection (6).

(8) Where the Magistrate within whosejudicial division the place of detention of thesuspect or accused is situated, is unable to visitthe place of detention, it shall be the duty ofsuch Magistrate to forthwith communicate, inthe prescribed Form, with any other Magistrateand request him to visit the place of detentionof the suspect or accused for the purposereferred to in subsection (6).

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)4

5

10

15

(9) Any Magistrate who has beencommunicated with, under subsection (7) or(8) shall visit the place of detention of thesuspect or accused not later than forty eighthours of the receipt of the Form calling on him,to visit such place, and report back to theMagistrate who dispensed with the personalattendance of the suspect or accused, of suchvisit in the Form prescribed in that behalf.

(10) It shall be the duty of theSuperintendent of a prison to produce any suchsuspect or accused so detained, before theMagistrate who visits the prison in terms of theprovisions of subsection (6), (7) or (8) and toprovide such Magistrate with the facilitiesrequired by him.”.

3.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

5Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)

Department of Government Printing