==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.2019

w;s úfYI

wxl 2110$57 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'02'15

No. 2110/57 - FRIDAY FRBRUARY 15, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Provincial Councils Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4388— 20 (02/2019)

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Registration of Trading Places precept of the Southern Provincial Council

I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Trade of the Southern Provincial Council do hereby notifythat the draft of the registration of trading places precept No. .... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council publishedhereunder will be presented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its publicationin this Gazette. Any person who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions of thesaid precept, shall forward the same to me within the said period.

UDALAMATHTHA GAMAGE DAYAWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,

Minister,Southern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture,Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water Supply and

Drainage, Food Supply and Distribution,

Trade and Cooperative Development.

Office of the Minister of Trade,Galle,0n 14th January, 2019.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20192A

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PRECEPT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRADING PLACES

No. ........ OF 2019

This Precet is, to regularize the trading establishments that have not been incorporated within the SouthernProvince, to register the institutions and persons who conduct such establishments, to make provisionsfor all activities associated with such regulation and to create regulations to rescind the Southern ProvinceTrade Names Registration Precept No. 1 of 1991.

It is herewith enacted by the Provincial Council of the Southern Province of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka.

1. This Precept shall be known as the Southern Province Trading Places Registration Precept

No. ..... of 2019 and shall come into effect when approved by the Governor of the SouthernProvince.

SECTION 1

2.(1) All persons who carry out a business place of trade, not incorporated, within the Southern

Province (hereinafter referred to as Places of Trading), should register under this Preceptand conduct the trade with a relevant certificate.

(2) The Certificate so obtained for a place of trade under this article should be clearly

exhibited within the precinct of the place of business.

(3) As per this article the work procedures applicable, to register a place of business, to

cancel a registration granted, to specify the specimen forms applicable and to prescribeother associated activities connected to registration, should be according to the rulesenacted by the Minister under this Precept.

3. Those trading establishments or person/persons who have obtained Trade Name Certificates,

prior to the date of activation of this precept and are conducting their trade, under SouthernProvince Trade Name Precept No. 1 of 1991, should be considered as having been registeredunder this precept. However, any change or cancellation that takes place after the date ofactivation of this precept should be instituted according to the provisions of this precept.

4.(1) It is not permitted to apply for a trade name containing words such as, the President,

Presidential, Nation, State, Sri Lanka, Money, Monetary or Urban or Incorporated orwords in the opinion of the registrar may imply, or have room to imply, some relationshipwith a Municipal Council, any other Local Government Institution, with a societyincorporated under an act of Parliament, with a Board, a state institution, or words similarto Corporation, Corporative or words that are for Historical or Cultural heritage orwords that signify a community, a caste or a religion or words that the Provincial Companyregistrar may consider to be inappropriate.

(2) If, the nature and the manner in which the trade name and the registration is used

undermines social virtues and threatens public peace or has the potential to hurt religiousor communal values of a particular group of persons, or to mislead the public, or if thename applied is already awarded within the Southern Provincial Council under theCompany Law, such Trade names should not be applied for, Similarly, if the Registararreceives such names for registration, he/she should decline to register such names.

Abbreviated name& date effective

Businessinstitution &persons shouldregister

Previouslyregisteredinstitutions

Word that shouldnot be used forbusiness names

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.2019

5.(1) The change of nature of the business, or the change of place of business, could be

accomplished by forwarding a written request to that effect.

(2) In the case of change of ownership in business, the following procedure should be

followed :

(a) in the event where the owner of the business is alive,

the owner of the business (registered owner) should submit an affidavit wherebyhe expresses his willingness to transfer the business and the succeeding ownershould forward a letter of consent to take over the business.

(b) In the event where the proceding owner is deceased.

(I) if the deceased owner has mentioned about the transfer of business in a Last

Will he has executed before his death, the business would be tranferred asmentioned in the Will subject to the relevant judiciary process.

(II) If the deceased owner has no last will and if he/she is married, the business

could be transferred in the name the legitimate inheritor, with the consentof children above 18 years of age (the consent should be in the form ofaffidavits) and if there are children below 18 years of age, the business couldbe transferred in the name of the legitimate inheritor (subject to a requestfrom the legitimate inheritor).

(III) If the deceased owner is not married and if he has no last will, the business

could be tranferred in the name of a person upon his/her request with theconsent of the Father, mother and brothers and sisters above 18 years of age(the consent in the form of affidavits).

(3)(a) In cases of (II) and (III) above it is advisable to call for a report from the Grama

Sevaka of the area before the transfer is affected on the request forwarded.

(b) In the case of (I) and (II) above, the estate of the deceased will be subject to a

judicial process and hence the transfer of the business should be in keeping withthe court order issued.

(4) When a new partner is taken in to a partnership business, the inclusion request should be

made by way of an amendment application. When there are more than two partners it ispossible for one or more partners to leave the partnership and new partners to enter.However, when there are only two partners and when one partner is leaving the businessthe remaining partner should cancle the partnership and register the business as a soleproprietorship.

(5) Converting a sole proprietor business in to a partnership.

This conversion could be accomplished by obtaining the consent of the existingproprietor and the prospective partners for the purpose, by way of affidavits. In this casethe commencement date of the partnership business would be the date on which thedocuments are handed over to the office.

(6) Converting a Partnership in to a sole Proprietorship.

The consent of all partner should be obtained by way of affidavits. In that it should beexpressed that the preceding partners wish the business to run in the future. (It should

Amendments

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20194A

mention the exit of the partners who leave and the fact that the business is to continue asa sole proprietorship). Futher the person who is taking over the business should express,by way of an affidavit, his willingness clearly, to take over the business.

(7) However, when effecting the above amendments, it should be ensured that such

Amendments are done subject to the fulfillment of the following conditions.

(a) The name of the sole proprietorship or the partnership should not be amended

fully.

(b) The nature of the business should not be drastically amended.

(c) When a sole proprietorship is converted into a partnership, the sole proprietor of

the sole proprietor business should be a partner in the partnership.

(d) When a partnership is converted into a sole proprietorship the sole proprietor of

the succeding business should be one of the partners of the preceding business.

SECTION II

Appointments, Conduct and Administration

6.(1) It is necessary to appoint a Provincial Registrar of Trading places (in future referred to

as the Registrar) to conduct the duties of registering the trading places of the province.For this purpose, the Secretary to the Minister in charge of Trade in the Southen ProvincialCouncil, by virtue of the office he/she holds is being appointed to the position of theProvincial Registrar of the Trading Places in the Southern Provincial Council.

(2) In keeping with the provision of this precept the general administration and the

Supervision of the registration of Trading places within the province fails within thepurview of the registrar.

7. As per this Precept, the powers of the registrar, his work objectives and duties could be delegated

to an officer to be performed under the authority and supervision of the registrar. Accordingly,power could be delegated to the AGA of the District or any such officer and that officer whoperforms the duties on behalf of the secretary would be empowered to place his own signatureand issue certificates for trade places registrations.

8.(1) As per this Precept, the Registrar may issue a directive to a particular person to provide

certain information that is required in the opnion of the registrar, within the time specifiedby the registrar, to evaluate whether a business owned or partnered by that person shouldbe registered under this Precept or not, or whether any change should be affected to theparticulars, provided for registration. In the case of a corporation, the registrar mayissue the directive to either the Secretary of the corporation or to the person dischargingthe duties of the Secretary.

(2) A person who has not responded to the information solicited by the registrar as per

clause (1) above within the time specified by him or within the time further accommodateby the registrar or a person who provides false information is guilty of an offence andwhen found guilty at a summary trail, is liable to pay a sum not exceeding rupees onethousand five hundred for every single day for which that directive is continuously

Appointment ofthe registrar andregistrar’s duties

Delegation ofpowers

Providinginformation to theregistrar

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.2019

disregarded or to undergo a terms of imprisonment for period not exceeding six monthsor in either of the two ways, should be subjected to either a period of imprisonment ora fine and a period of imprisonment.

(3) During the course of a trial as mentioned in clause (2) above, if the Court forms the

opinion that the information as specified in the directive issued within the time specifiedby the registrar should be made available to the registrar, the Courts may issue suchdirective to the person concerned to provide or cause to provide such informaiton.

(4) If, according to this observations of the Registrar, a certain business organization or a

certain businessman has affected changes to a business as against the particulars providedat the time of its registration, the registrar may order the business establishment orperson concerned to provide the information so required within the time allowed by theregistrar. However, when it is revealed that the provision of information has beendisregarded and when the registrar has issued notice to provide reasons for such disregardunder this clause, no legal acton may be instituted until the lapse of the period mentionedin the registrar’s notice.

(5) In the event where a change takes place every time in the nature of business, place of

business or the ownership of the business of a business registered under this precept, anapplication for registration of those changes should be made supported by an affidavitwithin one month of such changes and due registration should be obtained.

9.(1) If the registrar forms the opinion that a certain business is not providing sufficient

information for him to carry out the duties under this precept and further, if he feels thatcertain items of material information have not been disclosed, the registrar has theauthority to appoint and officer in writing for the purpose of investigation and securingthe required information as specified by the registrar and such delegation of authorityor appointment should be logged in the relevant current duty log.

(2) In case where a situation warrants the appointment of an officer as stated in clause (1)

above, the officer so appointed may obtain the services of a Peace Officer if he feelsthat is required, or he may resort to anyone, or all of the following courses of action inthe discharge of his duty.

(a) If he/she has confidential information to believe that the relevant documents are

available at a particular place or a building he/she may enter that place or buildingand inspect or cause to inspect those documents and information.

(b) May also obtain a copy, a note or an inventory from a book, registrar or Document

stumbled upon during the course of an inquiry or search in a particular building.

(c) May also question and inquire any person found in such premises with regard to

duties and matters relevant to this precept ; the provisons available for inquiriesand searches under Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 should be madeavailable a far as possible for inquiries conducted under this artilce.

(d) May also take into his custody, any document or book that he feels is relevant

after having issued a receipt for such removal to the person in whose prossessionthat item had been and may also take steps to enlist such item in the current dutylog mention in clause (1) above.

Power to inquire& search

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20196A

(3) If any person, organization, corporation, representative, director, officer or an employee

of an organization, obstruct or fails to allow the registrar or the person authorized bythe registrar in writing to perform his/her duty in providing an information, a book, adocument, a report or any other written material, when such duties have been detailedunder the provisions of this Precept, such person or organization is guilty of an offence,unless it is proved that such officer or employee of the organization did so without thatperson’s knowledge or that everything possible has been done with due enthusiasm toprevent such obstruction or failure.

(4) In a situation where the person who commits the offense as per clause (3) above is in a

partnership, all the members of that partnership and managers at the time of committingthat offense would be considered guilty of the said offence, and when found guilty at asummary trial before a court of justice, should be punished, either of the two ways of aterm of imprisonment or a fine or a term of imprisonment and a fine, both.

(5) In extending an existing registration or in issuing a new registration under this Precept,

it should not be a bar to issue a certificate under a prior business registration.

10.(1) When a registration of a business is sought under this Precept, if the registrar requests

the submission of an additional statement from the applicant, the applicant should submitsuch additional statement within the time specified and that statement should be allowedto be filed in the relevant file. Accordingly, when that statement is to the satisfaction ofthe registrar, steps should be taken to enable the applicant to receive, or to be sent beregistered post, the certificate of registration of the business.

(2) The person or business organization issued with a registration certificate as per clause

(1) above, should take steps to properly displayed that registration certificate or a certifiedcopy of that certificate at the principal place of its business and all other places ofbusiness connected to the registration within 14 days of such issue.

(3) Every business organization or person registered under this Precept should :

(a) carry in all their Letterheads,

(1) the name of the person or the names of all the partners of the business, the

registration number of the Business certificate and the principal place ofbusiness, in a business run by a person (where not a single partner is acorporation) and run in collaboration with partners.

(II) the name of the person or the name of all the partners of the business

including the names of the corporations and the particulars of incorporation,the registration number of the Business certificate and the principal placeof business, in a business run by a person (where one or more partners are acorporation) and run in collaboration with partners.

(b) carry in all their Receipts,

(I) the name of the business and

(II) the registration number of the business certificate

Filing statementsby the registrardisplaying thecertificate

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.2019

(4) A person or business organization that do not comply with clause (2) and clause (3)

above, if that person or organization is a partner of a business registered under thePrecept, every partner, manager or custodian of such business, is committing an offenceand once found guilty at a summary trial before a court of justice, should be subjectedto a fine not exceeding rupees two thousand.

(5) A statement made, should not understood for its prima facie value or for connected

matters therein except against the person who makes that statement or for registeringthat a statement, or for the certificate of registration.

11.(1) If a business organization or a person registered under this Precept ceases its business

activities under its certificate of registration, that organization or person, within threemonths of such cessation, should notify the registrar of that cessation by handing overor sending by registered post a statement in the form specified. This duty under thisartilce should be performed by the partners or the person registered at the time of thiscessation or in the event of death of partners or the person, by the personal representativesof such partners or person.

(2) When the person who is bound to make the declaration as per clause (1) above, has

disregarded to act accordingly within the period specified, he is guilty of committing anoffence under this precept, and when found guilty at a summary trial before Court ofJustice is subject to a fine not exceeding rupees ten thousand.

(3) Once the declaration as per clause (1) above is received by the registrar, the registrar

should file that statement accordingly and taken the name of the subject person ororganization off the register and should mention that fact in the register.

(4) When the registrar has justifiable reasons to believe that a person or organization

registered under this precept is not conducting business under that particularregistration ;

(a) the registrar may notify the concerned person or business by registered post or by

a notice published in public press to submit reasons within a month of that notice,to furnish reasons if there are to say, as to why the registration of that particularperson or organization should not be cancelled. Having done that, if the registerdoes not receive a satisfactory response within one month of that notification, theregistrar may proceed to notice that the registration of the subject business hasbeen cancelled. If the registrar receive no response to that notice within one monthof that notice he/she should make a notification in the gazette that such personsor organization will be taken off from the business name register or

(b) sent or cause to send by registered post that notice to the person, organization and

to each partner to his/her residential address a copy of that notice immediately.

(5) Having made that notification duly, and if the registrar does not receive a protest within

one month of that notification, the registrar may proceed to take the name of that businessperson or organization off from the business register.

12.(1) When a particular application for registration of a business is made contravening this

Precept or the rules and provisions enacted under the precept, the registrar or the officerdelegated with due authority should refuse to register that application.

Notice oftermination & de-listing from theRegistrar

Power to refuseregistration

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.20198A

(2) In parentheses to registering a place of business under this Precept, if that place could

be barred from the use as a premises to the business, the registration should not beconstrued to bestow power to the use of such premises.

13. In the event where as applicaton for registration of a business is refused or a registration of a

business is terminated under this precept, a person or organization continuing to conduct thatbusiness is committing an offence under this precept and once found guilty at a summary trialbefore a Court Justice, should be subject to a fine of rupee two thousand and a further fine ofrupees five hundred for every date that the business is made to function since found guilty.

14. When a person or organization is not satisfied with the decision made or an order issued by

the registrar on a particular issue, such person or organization, once that decision or order iscommunicated in writing, may make an appeal to the Minister in charge of the subject. Theminister in turn should make known his decision within three months of making such appealand that descision would be the final decision on the issue.

15.(1) A person or organization may inspect the record of his business by scrutinizing the files

and records maintained by the registrar after paying the fees specified for the purpose.

(2) A business person or an organization registered under the precept is entitle to request a

certificate of registration or a certificate done on a specified format with informationabout the business from the registrar. That certificate or certifed copy however, is issuedat a fee determined by the registrar.

(3) A certificate of registration or a copy of a statement registered supplied under this

Precept or a photo copy or an extract, when certified as a true copy by the registrar’ssignature duly such document should be considered as evidence in any Court of Law.

If the registrar, after a due inquiry, is convinced that a particular trading certificate, filedor bound in a certain file or a registrar, is lost, has deteriorated or is destroyed or thatcertain notes or material parts of such notes have been erased or made illegible, theregistrar may prepare and issue another certificate in place.

16. If, a notice, written notificaion, a certificate or any other document that has to be sent as

required by the provisions of this Precept, has been sent by registered post to the registeredaddress of the main place of business of the recipient by the Business Names Registrar, thatcould be considered as duly sent or handed over for all intents and purposes.

17.(1) In a situation where a certain business person or an organization has requested a trading

certificate under this precept and where that party has disregarded to submit someinformation the registrar has requested in writing or has not made amendments in thefirst application as ordered by the registrar, the registrar may issue a notice on a specifiedformat to that person or organization stating to provide that information or to make thatamendment. From the date of such notice, within a period of one month or within anextended period the registrar may agree to grant, if the concerned person or organizationfail to fulfill the requirements laid down, the registrar may consider that application forregistration to have rescinded and thus, may refuse to take any further action to issue acertificate.

However, if that person or organization pays the extra fees ordered on the initialapplication and provides the information prescribed by the registrar or to make theamendment directed by the registrar, the registrar may take further action on the rescindedapplication.

Fine for using atrade namerefused orterminated

Appeals

Examining thestatementsregistered andissuing certifiedcopies

Handing over thenotices

Situations whereapplications arerescinded

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.2019

(2) A person or organization that used a Business Certificate cancelled under this article

and is continuing to use such certificate without taking steps to act as per 2nd paragraphclause (1) above, is committing an offense as per the Precept and once found guilty at asummary trial before a Magistrate should be subject to a fine not exceeding rupees twothousand and for a further continuing fine of rupees one hundred for every day that thebusiness continues to commit that offense.

18.(1) The fees chargeable under this Precept, for registering a business organization, for

extending a registration, for issuing a certificate relevant to registration, for issuing astatement, copy or for any other service provided by the registrate, should be accordingto the orders issued by the Minister as per the rules.

(2) The compensatory stipend payable to the authorized officers for discharging their duty

in acting and maintaining activity with powers delegated by the registrar under this Precept,should be made with the recommendation of the Southern Province Chief Secretary,approved by the Board of Ministers of the Southern Provincial Council.

19.(1) As specifically mentioned as, should be done according to rules’, on certain matters in

this Precept, the Minister may formulate rules under this precept.

(2) Every rule formulated by the Minister should be published in the Gazette and should be

effective from the date of the Gazette or from the future date mentioned in the Gazettenotification and having come into effect thus, should be submitted to the SouthernProvincial Council for approved within three months of the date of which, it came in toeffect.

(3) Accordingly, if the Southern Provincial Council happens to turn down certain rules

submitted for its approval, such rules should be treated as rescinded from the date onwhich those were turned down out subject to the position that no adverse impact on thatrescindment may be fall on the activities that have taken place from the date those ruleswere considered effective and that date on which those were rescinded.

(4) In such an event, the date that is considered as the date on which the subject rules were

rescinded should be published in the Gazette.

20.(1)(a) A person or organization that maintains that a particular business is registered

while being knowledgeable of that statement falsity and a person or organizationthat deliberately changes the registration number of the business registrationcertificate.

(b) A business person or organization that submits or causes to submit a false affidavit,

are guilty of an offence and once found guilty at a summary trial before a Magistrateis subject to a penalty of either a sum of rupees not exceeding twenty thousand ora term of imprisonment not exceeding a period of six months.

21. Even though this Precept and rules made under the same bestows absolute power on the

registrar, despite the fact that there is opportunity for the affected party to forward reasons onhis/her behalf, the registrar should always exercise his absolute power in good faith subject tounquestionable bona-fides.

22. A notebook on registration maintained by the registrar under this Precept where documents

discrepancies are noted from time to time, the registrar could follow up and rectify sameafter conducting his/her own examination.

Rules todetermine thecharges

Making falsestatements andclaimingregistration bydefault

Registrar’sabsolute power

RectifyingDocument ShortComings

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.02.201910A

23. It is not ethical or a ‘done thing’ to file action of cause to file action against the registrar

under this Precept, when he has discharged his duties with, or said to have done with, the bestof bonafide intentions.

24. The registrar and any other person acting on delegated power of the registrar, as along as they

perform their duties in that capacities should be considered as public servant for the purposeof definition in the Penal Code.

25. All documents, report and register that are prescribed to be maintained under the provisions

of this Precept should be maintained at the registered office under the supervision of theregistrar or the office authorized by the registrar.

26.(1) From the day this Precept comes into effect, the Southern Province Business Names

Precept No. 1 of 1991 stands rescinded by this Precept, and all registers maintainedunder the said precept with due supervision of the Provincial Business names registraror an officer authorized by him, should be considered as those maintained under thepresent Precept

(2) The certificates issued under the Business Names Precept No. 1 of 1991 should be

considered as certificates issued under the current Precept to the required extent duringthe period up to 31st December of the financial year succeeding the year in which thecurrent Precept was brought into effect.

(3) Further any legal matter that is being pursued in any judiciary under the said Precept

should continue to proceed as per the provision and definitions of the said Precept.

27. Unless an alternative definition is required for the terms used in this Precept.

‘Business’ shall mean a sale or trade where money is exchanged

‘Business Registraion Certificate’ shall mean certificate issued under the Southern ProvinceRegistration of Trading Places Precept for a name or descretion under which a soleproprietorship or a partnership business is registered and carried out.

‘Corporation’ shall mean an institution created by an act of parliament or the SouthernProvincial Council and includes institutions created under the Companies Act, as well

‘Director’ and ‘Secretary’ shall mean a position that discharge the duties of a director or thesecretary but known by any other title.

‘Business institution’ shall mean a business establishment comprising one or more personsbrought together for the purpose of making a profit. However, it excludes a company establishedand created under the Companies Act, No. 1 of 2007.

‘Person’ or ‘Persons’ shall mean a natural person or persons(person/persons above 18 years of age who have established business within the SouthernProvince)

‘The Minister’ shall mean the Minister in charge of the subject of Trade in the SouthernProvincial Council.

28. In the event where there is inconsistency between the Sinhala, English and Tamil versions of

this Precept, the Sinhala version should prevail.

Unable toprosecute theregistrar

Registrar andother officers arepublic servants

Maintainingreports andregisters

Internalarrangements

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Prevalence ofSinhala versonwhen inconsistant03- 214