I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2145$2 - 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 14 jeks i÷od - 2019'10'14No. 2145/2 - MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A - PG 4688 — 517 (10/2019)

L.D. – B 9/2016 (II)

NATIONAL MEDICINES REGULATORY AUTHORITY ACT, No. 5 OF 2015

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine under section 142 of the NationalMedicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 read with section 3(k) of the aforesaid Act.

RAJITHA SENARATNE,Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine.Colombo,11th October, 2019.Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the National Medicines (Clinical Trials) Regulations, 2019.

PART I

APPLICATION FOR A LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION TO CONDUCT CLINICAL TRIALS

2. (1) No person shall conduct or cause or permit to be conducted a clinical trial for the following categories ofmedicines, medical devices and borderline products except under the authority of a letter of authorizationissued in that behalf by the National Medicines Regulatory Authority established under section 2 of the NationalMedicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 (in these regulations referred to as the “Authority”)-

(a)unregistered medicines, medical devices or borderline products;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20192A

(b)registered medicines, medical devices or borderline products where the proposed clinical trial isoutside the conditions of such registration and they may include changes to the –

(i) indications and clinical use;

(ii) target patient populations;

(iii) routes of administration; and

(iv) dosage regimens.

(2)A clinical trial for any category of medicine, medical devices and borderline products other than thecategories specified in subsection (1) may be conducted without a clinical trial authorization issued by theAuthority.

(3)The Authority shall have the power to delegate in writing to any officer of the Authority to issue letters ofauthorization in respect of clinical trials.

3. (1)A Principal Investigator with appropriate qualifications or in the case of multi centre studies, the CoordinatingPrincipal Investigator or National Coordinator may make parallel applications to the Authority and EthicsReview Committee for a letter of authorization to conduct a clinical trial and an ethics approval respectively.

(2)Every application for the issue of a letter of authorization shall be made in the form as may be determinedby the Authority and every application for ethics approval shall be made in the form as may be determinedby the Ethics Review Committee.

(3) Every application submitted under subsection (2) to the Authority shall contain complete and accurateinformation of all required particulars and be accompanied by a fee specified in Registration and Licensingof Medicines (fees) Regulations, No. 02 of 2017 as amended, Registration and Licensing of MedicalDevices (fees) Regulations, No. 03 of 2017, Registration and Licensing of Borderline Products (fees)Regulations, No. 04 of 2017 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2023/30 of June 14, 2017.

(4)An application found to contain false, misleading or incorrect information or particulars shall be rejected.

4.(1)Where a clinical trial is conducted at multiple sites in Sri Lanka, a single application shall be required to besubmitted to the Authority for a letter of authorization.

(2)Every applicant under regulation 3(1) shall submit to the Authority an approval from an Ethics ReviewCommittee for the issue of a letter of authorization.

(3)The Clinical Trials Evaluation Committee shall be charged with the task of regulatory review of clinicaltrials, including assessment of the scientific merit, relevance, risk involved and the expected benefits ofeach trial protocol.

(4)The Authority may, having considered the approval of the Ethics Review Committee and the evaluation ofthe Clinical Trials Evaluation Committee in relation to the respective clinical trial, issue a letter ofauthorization for the conduct of the clinical trial or refuse to issue a letter of authorization for reasonsassigned therefor.

(5)An applicant may withdraw such application at any time prior to the issue of letter of authorization, bynotifying the Authority in writing, without prejudice to his right to submit a fresh application. In suchcircumstances, the application and records relating to such clinical trial shall be maintained by the Authorityfor a period of two years from the date of withdrawal.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20193A

5.(1)A letter of authorization issued under regulation 4, shall-

(a)be in such form as the Authority may determine;

(b)be subject to such terms and conditions as specified in the letter of authorization as the Authoritymay think appropriate;

(c)become operative from such date as shall be specified in the letter of authorization;

(d)unless earlier suspended or cancelled or the letter of authorization is terminated by sponsor priorto the expiry of the letter of authorization, be in force for a period specified in the letter ofauthorization; and

(e)specify the site or sites at which the clinical trial is to be conducted.

(2)The Authority may from time to time, by notice in writing to the holder of a letter of authorization modifyor remove any condition on the letter of authorization, or attach any new condition to the letter ofauthorization with justification.

6. (1) A clinical trial shall be conducted at the site as may be specified in the letter of authorization.

(2)A multi-centre clinical trial may be conducted at more than one site as may be specified in the letter ofauthorization.

(3)Any individual member of the clinical trial may be designated as sub-investigator and supervised by theprincipal investigator at the clinical trial site to perform clinical trial related procedures.

7. (1) Any Overseas clinical research organization and any sponsors or their subsidiaries, affiliates or branchoffices in Sri Lanka shall prior to being engaged in any clinical trial activity -

(a)enter into an agreement with any recognized Sri Lankan medical research organization, which hasongoing affiliation with a University established or deemed to be established under the UniversitiesAct, No. 16 of 1978 or Ministry of Health for the conduct of clinical research; or

(b)enter into an agreement with a University established or deemed to be established under the UniversitiesAct, No. 16 of 1978 or research institution or unit functioning under the Ministry of Health or privatehealthcare institutions or medical associations or professional medical bodies registered in Sri Lankawith the prior written approval of the Authority to conduct clinical trials possessing the requiredknowledge, experience and expertise in the field of such research.

(2)The overseas clinical research organization shall not engage any clinical trial activity or recruit patients intoclinical trials prior to such agreement.

8.(1)An applicant shall have at the time of applying for a letter of authorization for a clinical trial, entered into anagreement with the sponsor to ensure availability of finances to provide medical care to the study participantin case of a clinical trial related injury until such time as the study participant is completely recovered fromthe effects of such injury.

(2)In the case of clinical trial-related injury to the study participant, the medical treatment and, the method andmanner of compensation to the study participant shall be in compliance with guidelines issued by the Authority.

9. All clinical trial participants shall be satisfactorily insured against possible injuries that might arise during theconduct of the clinical trial and a valid insurance certificate for the duration of the study shall be provided priorto study initiation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20194A

10.The Authority may consider expedited review of a clinical trial application as a non-routine procedure for atherapy with the potential to address an unmet medical need, especially during a global pandemic, a nationalepidemic or other similar emergency situation.

11.(1)The period of validity specified in the letter of authorization may be extended upon a request made forthat purpose to the Authority, not less than sixty days prior to the date of expiration of the letter ofauthorization previously issued. Every such request shall include the reasons for the extension.

(2)The holder of a letter of authorization shall, prior to such request get extended the period of validityspecified in the approval of the Ethics Review Committee.

(3)The Authority may extend the time period of validity under subsection (1), where-

(a)the holder of a letter of authorization has not violated or done anything in contravention of theterms and conditions of the letter of authorization issued;

(b)the holder of a letter of authorization has not contravened any provisions of the NationalMedicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any regulations made thereunder or theclinical trial protocol or the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines or ethical principles or, guidelinesissued under these regulations; or

(c)the continuation of the clinical trial concerned will not have any adverse impact on the studyparticipant; and

(d)it is necessary to enable the investigator to complete such clinical trial for reasons to be recordedby the Authority.

(4)The Authority may verify the legitimacy of the request and if the Authority is satisfied with the legitimacyof such request, within thirty days of receipt of such request, grant such extension for a further period asmay be determined by Authority to enable the investigator to complete such clinical trial or for reasonsto be recorded by the Authority, refuse to extend the period of such letter of authorization.

12.(1) A letter of authorization issued under regulation 4 may be suspended by the Authority, where-

(a)it becomes necessary in order to implement any management measures adopted in consequenceof a determination made by the Authority;

(b)the holder of a letter of authorization has been charged for the commission of an offence underthe provisions of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or anyregulations made thereunder; or

(c)the holder of a letter of authorization has contravened any provisions of the National MedicinesRegulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any regulations made thereunder or the clinical trialprotocol or the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines or ethical principles or, guidelines issuedunder these regulations, and the severity of such contravention does not warrant a cancellation ofthe letter of authorization.

(2)Where a letter of authorization is suspended under paragraph (a) of subsection (1), the holder of a letterof authorization shall be entitled to a pro rata refund of the fee paid by him for the issue of the letter ofauthorization.

13.(1) A letter of authorization issued under regulation 4 shall be cancelled by the Authority, where -

(a)it is found that the letter of authorization had been obtained by providing false, misleading orinaccurate information;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20195A

(b)the holder of a letter of authorization has been convicted of an offence under the provisions of theNational Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No.5 of 2015 or any regulations made thereunder orthe clinical trial protocol or the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines or ethical principles or, guidelinesissued under these regulations;

(c)the holder of a letter of authorization has acted in contravention or in violation of any terms orconditions subject to which such letter of authorization was issued; or

(d)the continuation of the clinical trial concerned will have adverse impact on the study participant.

(2)Where a letter of authorization issued is suspended or cancelled as the case may be under regulation12 or this regulation, it shall be the duty of the Authority to forthwith inform the holder of a letter ofauthorization of such suspension or cancellation, by a written communication together with reasonstherefor.

(3)Upon the suspension or cancellation under sub-regulation (2), the holder of a letter of authorizationshall discontinue the clinical trial for which the letter of authorization was issued.

14.Upon the suspension or cancellation of a letter of authorization, or discontinuation, the investigator shallensure study participants or legally acceptable representatives are informed of such suspension, cancellationor discontinuation,and reasons therefor and adequate medical care is provided to the study participants.

15. (1)In the event of a premature discontinuation of a clinical trial, the Authority shall forthwith take steps tocancel such letter of authorization.

(2)A summary report should be submitted within three months to the Authority and the relevant EthicsReview Committee. This report shall provide a brief description of the study, number of participantsexposed to the drug, dose and duration of such exposure, details of adverse reactions, if any, and reasonsfor discontinuation.

(3)Where it is later proposed to carry on the same clinical trial, a fresh letter of authorization shall beobtained therefor.

16. (1) Any person aggrieved by a decision refusing the issue or renewal, as the case may be, of a letter ofauthorization or the suspension or cancellation of a letter of authorization issued, may, within thirty daysof the date of receipt of the written communication informing such person, of the refusal or the suspensionor cancellation, as the case may be, appeal against such decision to the Appeals Committee appointedunder section 123 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act.

(2)The decision on any appeal submitted under subsection (1) shall be made within sixty days of the receiptof such appeal and the person making such appeal shall be informed of the decision made on it, forthwith.

(3)Where the Appeals Committee considers it appropriate, it may hold such inquiry as deem necessary in thecircumstances of the case, prior to arriving at any decision on any appeal made to it under subsection (1).

(4)The decision of the Appeals Committee on any appeal made under this section, shall be final.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20196A

PART II

CONDUCT OF CLINICAL TRIALS

17.The applicant to whom a letter of authorization issued or renewed under these regulations (hereinafter referredto as the “holder of a letter of authorization”), sponsor and investigator shall comply with the guidelines issuedby the Authority in respect of any clinical trial.

18. The holder of a letter of authorization and the other principal investigators designated in such letter ofauthorization shall commence the clinical trial in Sri Lanka upon-

(a)the approval issued by an Ethics Review Committee recognized by the Authority;

(b)issue of letter of authorization to conduct for a clinical trial from the Authority;

(c)the registration of the clinical trial on Sri Lanka Clinical Trial Registry; and

(d)the approval or no-objection certificate from the head of the institution in charge of the clinical trialsite or sites, as the case may be, specified in the letter of authorization.

19.The holder of a letter of authorization or his designated nominee in Sri Lanka shall thereupon apply to theAuthority for an import license and such other permits as may be necessary for the import of investigationalmedicinal products and other drugs and devices and material required for the study.

20. (1)Every clinical trial shall be conducted under the charge and supervision of a principal investigator. Allinvestigators, including the principal investigator shall possess appropriate qualifications, training, andexperience and shall have access to such investigational and treatment facilities as are relevant to theclinical trial protocol.

(2)All investigators in a clinical trial shall have formal training in Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and a validGCP certificate.

21.All clinical trials, including bioavailability and bioequivalence studies shall be designed, conducted and reportedin accordance with the clinical trial protocol, the principles of ICH Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Guidelines,and other applicable requirements.

22. (1)Every holder of a letter of authorization shall, where there is a change of principal investigator at a clinicaltrial site during any clinical trial, forthwith inform such fact to the Authority, and furnish particulars of thenew principal investigator to the Authority and the relevant Ethics Review Committee.

(2) Any site involved in a clinical trial may be subjected to the Good Clinical Practice inspection by theAuthority.

23.The holder of a letter of authorization shall where at such times and such manner as the Authority may requiresuch holder of a letter of authorization to provide any information or report in respect of the clinical trial forwhich the letter of authorization has been issued, comply with such requirement.

24.The holder of a letter of authorization shall submit to the Authority a final report of the clinical trial within aperiod of six months after completion of such clinical trial or within such a longer period as the Authority maydetermine.

25.Where any clinical trial is completed, the records relating to such clinical trial shall be maintained for a periodof ten years after the completion of such clinical trial or such other period as the Authority may determinetaking into consideration the additional information submitted to it.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20197A

26.The holder of a letter of authorization or the sponsor, as the case may be, keep adequate clinical records ofeach study participant for the duration of the clinical trial and ensure that –

(a)such records are available at all times for inspection by the Authority or any person authorized by theAuthority in that behalf; and

(b)such records are kept at least until there are no pending or contemplated marketing applications ofthe investigational medicinal product in Sri Lanka or for two years after the last approval of a marketingapplication for the investigational medicinal product in Sri Lanka, which ever expires later.

27.Where the site for a clinical trial is a government healthcare institution or a private hospital and the studyparticipants are in-patients of such institution or hospital, relevant records shall be maintained in the sourcenotes of such patient in respect of the clinical trial.

28.(1)The clinical trial protocol may be amended if any amendments become necessary before initiation orduring the conduct of a clinical trial.

(2) (a) Any amendment to a clinical trial protocol which relates only to administrative and logisticchanges or minor amendments and additional safety assessments to which an Ethics ReviewCommittee has already granted approval shall not require an approval of the Authority.

(b)Any amendment to a clinical trial protocol under paragraph (a) shall be recorded and be availableupon request for inspection at the clinical trial site.

(3) Any amendment to the clinical trial which relates to changes to the following shall be communicatedas a notification to Authority and relevant Ethics Review Committee -

(a)inclusion of additional investigator sites;

(b)amendments which are made to the investigator’s brochure;

(c)amendments to the informed consent form to be given to a study participant of a specificclinical trial;

(d)change of principal investigator if he is not the holder of a letter of authorization; or

(e)recruitment of additional study participants.

(4) (a)Any amendments, which require prior approval from the Authority and relevant Ethics Review Committee before implementation of the amendments-

(i)change of principal investigator if he is the holder of a letter of authorization for clinicaltrial; and

(ii)substantial amendments to the protocol.

(b)Any substantial amendments to the conduct of the clinical trial may arise from changes to theprotocol or from new information relating to the scientific documents in support of the clinicaltrial.

(c)Any amendments to the clinical trial are regarded as “substantial” where they are likely to havea significant impact on the safety or physical or mental integrity of the participants, or thescientific value of the clinical trial, or the conduct or management of the clinical trial, or thequality or safety of any investigational medicinal product used in the clinical trial

(5) Any amendments made to the clinical trial protocol under this regulation shall be agreed upon andsigned by the persons who are the signatories to such clinical trial protocol.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20198A

PART III

CONSENT OF STUDY PARTICIPANTS OF A CLINICAL TRIAL

29.No person shall, by means of any threat or coercion, compel or induce another person to be a study participantin a clinical trial.

30. (1) In all clinical trials, a freely given, informed and written consent shall be obtained from each studyparticipant.

(2)The principal investigator shall provide to the study participant, information about the study verbally andusing a patient information document in the form as may be determined by the Authority. Such form shallbe in a language that is non-technical and understandable by the study participant, to which the consent ofthe study participant shall be obtained in writing.

31. (1)An investigator shall not use a person as a study subject in a clinical trial unless the following requirementsare satisfied-

(a)in the case of a person of or above the age of 18 years, with the consent of that person;

(b)in the case of a person below the age of 18 years, with the assent of that person and consent of -

(i)the parent or guardian (if there is no parent) of that person; and

(ii)if different from sub-paragraph (i), the legal representative of that person.

(2)Where a study participant is not able to give informed consent in the manner as specified in these regulation(e.g. an unconscious person or a minor or those suffering from severe mental illness or disability), theassent of such person may be obtained from a manager, guardian, curator or next of kin appointed byCourt in terms of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101).

(3)If the study participant or manager, guardian, curator or next of kin as the case may be is unable to read orwrite, an impartial witness shall be present during the entire informed consent process and such witnessshall be required to attest all the documents relating to the informed consent process.

(4)For the purpose of this regulation, “an impartial witness” means a person who is independent of theclinical trial and not influenced by the persons who are involved in the clinical trial and shall attend theentire informed consent process where the study participant or manager, guardian, curator or next of kinas the case may be is unable to read or write. Such witness shall read the informed consent form and anyother relevant information supplied to the study participant and sign and personally date the consent form.

32. Prior to the commencement of a clinical trial, the principal investigator or his nominee shall give the studyparticipant and any person giving consent on behalf of a study participant, a full and reasonable explanation of thefollowing-

(a)that the clinical trial involves research;

(b)the purpose of the clinical trial;

(c)the treatments to be administered to the study participant in the clinical trial and the probability forrandom assignment of each treatment;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.20199A

(d)the procedures to be followed in the clinical trial, including all invasive procedures;

(e)the responsibilities of the study participant;

(f)the aspects of the clinical trial which are experimental;

(g)the reasonably foreseeable risks or inconveniences to the study subject and, where applicable, to anyembryo, fetus or nursing infant;

(h)the reasonably expected benefits, including whether there is any intended clinical benefit to the studyparticipant;

(i)any alternative procedures or treatments available to the study participant, and their potential benefitsand risks;

(j)any compensation and free treatment to the study participant in the event of injury arising fromparticipation in the clinical trial and compensation in the case of disability or death resulting from suchinjury;

(k)any pro-rated payment to the study participant for participating in the clinical trial;

(l)any anticipated expenses to the study participant from participating in the clinical trial;

(m) that the participation of the study participant in the clinical trial is voluntary and that he may refuse toparticipate in or may withdraw from the clinical trial at any time without penalty or loss of benefitwhich the study participant would otherwise be entitled to;

(n)the persons who will be granted access to the medical records of the study participant and the extent ofsuch access, including the possibility that the licensing authority may inspect the records;

(o)the extent to which records identifying the study participant will be kept confidential;

(p)that the study participant or his legal representative will be informed in a timely manner of any informationbecoming available which may be relevant to the study participant’s willingness to continue participatingin the clinical trial;

(q)the persons to contact for further information relating to the clinical trial and the rights of studyparticipants and in the event of injury arising from participation in the clinical trial;

(r)any foreseeable circumstances under or reasons for which the participation of the study participantmay be terminated;

(s)the expected duration of participation of the study participant in the clinical trial;

(t)the approximate number of study participants involved in the clinical trial;

(u)sponsorship, if any, with name of sponsor, any interests or conflict of interests declared by the investigatorand contact details of the Authority and the Ethics Review Committee;

(v)any other information which the licensing authority may require to be given; and

(w) any other information which the study participant may request to know.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201910A

33.If any information becomes available which may be relevant to a study participant’s willingness to continueparticipating in a clinical trial, the investigator shall, at the earliest feasible opportunity, give to the studyparticipant or his legal representative a full and reasonable explanation of that information.

34.If a person specified in regulation 31(2) is used as a study participant in a clinical trial and subsequentlybecomes capable of giving his own consent, the principal investigator shall, at the earliest feasible opportunity,give to that person a full and reasonable explanation of the matters referred to in regulation 32 and request theconsent of the study participant to continue to be used as a study participant in the clinical trial.

35. If a study participant in a clinical trial refuses to give or withdraws consent as required by this regulation, theinvestigator shall immediately cease to use that person as a study participant in the clinical trial.

36.During the continuance of a clinical trial, no person, other than the holder of a letter of authorization or adesignated principal investigator or any person assisting him in a clinical trial shall treat a study participant oradminister any test material to such study participant.

37.In an emergency, any doctor or dentist may, in the absence of the holder of a letter of authorization or adesignated principal investigator or any person assisting him in the clinical trial, treat a study participant if it isin the interest of the study participant.

38.The Authority, or any other person including the investigator, sponsor or any member of the Ethics ReviewCommittee involved in a clinical trial in whatsoever capacity shall subject to the provisions of the Right toInformation Act, No. 12 of 2016 maintain the confidentiality of the information provided or relating to anystudy participant which may come to his knowledge in the discharge of his functions under these regulations.

39.All the study participants in a clinical trial shall be assigned with a unique identification number in order toprotect the identity of such study subject which shall be used in lieu of the name of such study participant forall matters relating to the clinical trial.

PART IV

RESPONSIBILITIES OF AN INVESTIGATOR OF A CLINICAL TRIAL

40.The investigator shall be responsible for the conduct of the clinical trial in compliance with the provisions ofthese regulations, according to the clinical trial protocol and ICH Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, theguidelines issued by the Authority, from time to time and shall have adequate resources and facilities to conductthe clinical trial adhering to the standards as specified in the clinical trial protocol and the ICH GCP Guidelines.

41.The investigator shall be familiar with the appropriate use of the investigational medicinal products, asdescribed in the clinical trial protocol, in the investigator’s brochure, and in other sources of informationprovided by the sponsor and shall ensure that all persons assisting him with the clinical trial are adequatelyinformed about the clinical trial protocol, investigational medicinal products and the duties and functions relatingto such clinical trial.

42.The investigator shall report immediately to the sponsor, all serious adverse events except for those seriousadverse events the protocol or investigator’s brochure identifies as not requiring immediate reporting. Suchreports shall be followed promptly by detailed, written reports.

43.The investigator shall be responsible for giving adequate information to the study participant in respect of theclinical trial in accordance with the ICH GCP Guidelines.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201911A

44. The investigator shall submit any information or reports including progress reports to the Authority, the sponsoror the relevant Ethics Review Committee at such times as may be required by the Authority, the sponsor or therelevant Ethics Review Committee, as the case may be.

45.(1)The investigator shall ensure that adequate free medical care is provided to the study participants, if thereis any clinical trial related injury until such time as the study participant is completely recovered from theeffects of such injury.

(2)The investigator shall at the time of applying for a letter of authorization for clinical trial under theseregulations, enter into an agreement with the sponsor to ensure the availability of finances and appropriateinsurance cover for this purpose.

46.The principal investigator shall ensure that the clinical trial has received all approvals required under theseregulations and is registered in the Sri Lanka Clinical Trials Registry in addition to registration with any otherclinical trial registry before initiating patient screening and recruitment.

PART V

RESPONSIBILITIES OF A SPONSOR

47.(1)A clinical trial shall be undertaken only if the foreseeable risks and inconvenience have been weighedagainst the anticipated benefit for the individual study participant and to society.

(2)The sponsor should ensure provision has been made for insurance or indemnity to cover the liability ofthe investigator and the institution in which the clinical trial is carried out against claims arising from theclinical trial, except for claims that arise from malpractice or negligence.

48.The sponsor is responsible for selecting investigator to conduct the study. Each investigator should be qualifiedby training and experience and should have adequate resources to conduct the study.

49.The sponsor of a clinical trial shall be responsible for implementing and maintaining quality assurance systemsto ensure that the clinical trial is conducted and data generated, documented, and reported in compliance withthe requirements of the clinical trial Protocol and ICH GCP guidelines. Any transfer of ownership of the datashall be reported to the Authority.

50.The sponsor of a clinical trial is required to ensure that the clinical trial, for which the sponsor is responsiblefor, has received all approvals required under these regulations, and is registered in the Sri Lanka Clinical TrialsRegistry in addition to registration with any other clinical trial registry before initiating patient screening andrecruitment.

51.Every sponsor shall be required to submit a status report on the clinical trial to the Authority through the holderof a letter of authorization at such intervals as shall be determined by the Authority, and a final report of theclinical trial within six months after the completion of the clinical trial or such further period as the Authoritymay allow. In the case of premature discontinuation of a clinical trial for which a letter of authorization has beenissued, a summary report shall be submitted to the Authority within three months of such discontinuation.

52.The sponsor shall be responsible for the ongoing safety evaluation of the investigational medicinal products andshall notify other investigators participating in the clinical trial, the Authority and the relevant Ethics ReviewCommittee of the findings that could affect adversely the safety of study participants or impact the conduct ofthe clinical trial.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201912A

53.The sponsor shall report as soon as possible to the Authority and the relevant Ethics Review Committee about allserious adverse events occurring at any clinical trial site in Sri Lanka.

54. (1)The sponsor shall communicate to the Authority, the relevant Ethics Review Committee and theinvestigators participating in the clinical trial about any serious unexpected adverse drug reaction assoon as possible but no later than fifteen calendar days after the sponsor was first aware of such reaction.

(2)Any serious unexpected adverse drug reaction that is fatal or life-threatening shall be reported to theAuthority, relevant Ethics Review Committee and the investigators participating in the clinical trial assoon as possible but not later than seven calendar days after the sponsor was first aware of such reaction.

55.The sponsor shall ensure that the investigational medicinal products including active comparators and placebo ifapplicable, is manufactured in accordance with the principles and guidelines of Good Manufacturing Practicesfor medicinal products of the WHO or similar accreditation body.

56.The sponsor shall ensure that the product label on outer packaging of investigational medicinal products or,where there is no outer packaging, on the immediate packaging, contains standard, internationally acceptedinformation in English, which shall include the following:-

(a)the reference number or other unique identification mark of each item of such investigational medicinalproducts;

(b)a clinical trial reference code allowing identification of the clinical trial, site, investigator and sponsor ifnot given elsewhere;

(c)the date of manufacture and the expiry date of the investigational medicinal products in month and yearformat and in a manner that avoids any ambiguity;

(d)the storage conditions appropriate for each item of investigational medicinal products as may be indicatedby the manufacturer; and

(e)the words: “For Clinical Trial Use Only” or similar wording to indicate that the investigational medicinalproducts will be used only for clinical trials.

57.The sponsor shall not permit the investigator to use any investigational medicinal product in a clinical trial if thecontainer in which the investigational medicinal product is stored is not marked and labeled with the particularsspecified in regulation 56.

58. (1)If any code or cipher is used in the labeling of an investigational medicinal product, the key to the codeor cipher shall be made available to any doctor or dentist in an emergency and it shall be made known tothe Authority.

(2)The code or cipher should permit rapid identification of the product in case of a medical emergency, butshall not permit undetectable breaks of the blinding.

59.The sponsor shall cause all investigational medicinal products be stored in such manner as to be easilyidentifiable. Where the investigational medicinal products cannot be identified, such investigational medicinalproducts shall not be used and shall be surrendered to the Authority.

60.(1)The sponsor shall ensure that written procedures include instructions that the investigator or institutionshall follow for the handling and storage of any investigational product for the clinical trial and documentationthereof.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201913A

(2)The procedures shall address adequate and safe receipt, handling, storage, dispensing, retrieval of unusedproduct from study participant, and return of any unused investigational product to the sponsor or alternativedisposal if authorized by the sponsor and in compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements fordisposal of such products.

61.The sponsor or the holder of a letter of authorization shall keep adequate clinical records of each study participantfor the duration of such clinical trial. Such sponsor or the holder of a letter of authorization shall ensure thatsuch records are-

(a)available at all times for inspection by the Authority or any person authorized by the Authority in thatbehalf, and kept up to date at all times;

(b)kept at least for whichever of the following periods expires later-

(i)until there are no pending or contemplated marketing applications of the investigationalmedicinal product in Sri Lanka; and

(ii)two years after the last approval of a marketing application for the investigationalmedicinal product in Sri Lanka.

62.Where the letter of authorization for clinical trial is withdrawn or clinical trial is discontinued records shall bemaintained for a period of two years after such withdrawal or two years after the Authority has been informed ofthe discontinuation of the clinical trial.

63.Where a clinical trial is completed, records relating to such clinical trial shall be maintained –

(a)for ten years after the completion of the clinical trial; or

(b)such other period as the Authority may direct taking into consideration any additional information thatis submitted to it.

64.The sponsor or the holder of a letter of authorization shall maintain a record containing the names and suchother particulars of every person assisting or participating in a clinical trial.

65. The sponsor shall ensure that the laboratories used for generating data in respect of clinical trials are compliedwith Good Laboratory Practices.

66. The sponsor shall ensure that the investigator’s Brochure for any clinical trial provides information in a conciseand objective form which enables an investigator to understand the contents thereof and make unbiasedrisk-benefit assessment of the appropriateness of the clinical trial. Such contents shall be kept up-to-date.

PART VI

CLINICAL TRIAL AGREEMENT

67.There shall be a written agreement between two or more parties involved in a clinical trial which describes allthe matters relating to a clinical trial conducted under these regulations.

68. (1)All commercially sponsored research carried out at healthcare institutions in Sri Lanka shall have a fullyexecuted contract otherwise known as a Clinical Trial Agreement before the commencement of theclinical trial.

(2) All relevant parties to such contract shall sign the agreement which shall define the scope of work andformalizes the understanding between the parties.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201914A

(3)The agreement shall define the scope of work, establish acceptable payment arrangements, and addressimportant issues such as the right to publish research results, protection of confidential information,compensation in case of serious clinicaltrial-related injury to study participants and circumstances forindemnification.

69.All Clinical Trial Agreements for conduct of clinical trials at healthcare institutions shall be signed by –

(a)an approved institutional signatory (e.g. Medical Director) or a no objection certificate shall beissued by the Head of such institution;

(b)the relevant principal investigator;

(c)the sponsor of the study or person designated by the sponsor (e.g. CRO) where relevant; and

(d) other parties such as the local coordinator, where relevant.

70.Where the site for a clinical trial is a private hospital, the necessary approvals shall be obtained from the relevantperson or persons, as the case may be, in accordance with the requirements of each such institution, in additionto obtaining the letter of authorization from the Authority and the approval from the relevant Ethics ReviewCommittee.

71.The holder of a letter of authorization or the principal investigator or any person assisting him in a clinical trialor any study participant in a clinical trial shall not, directly or indirectly, have any financial interest in thebusiness of the sponsor of the clinical trial.

PART VII

GENERAL

72.The International Conference on Harmonization Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP) Guidelines relating to theconduct of clinical trials including ICH E2A, E3, E7, E8, E9, E11, and E6 (R2)) shall be applicable in addition tothese regulations.

73.The Declaration of Helsinki as a statement of ethical principles for medical research shall be applicable in relationto the guidance to physicians engaged in clinical research and the responsibilities of researchers.

74. (1) Every person who intends to conduct a clinical trial shall ensure the following-

(a)before any clinical trial is initiated, foreseeable risks and inconveniences of such clinical trial shallbe weighed against the anticipated benefit for the study participant of such clinical trial and the societyand, be continued only if such anticipated benefits justify the foreseeable risk;

(b)the rights, safety and wellbeing of the study participants of a clinical trial shall be the most importantconsiderations and shall prevail over the interests of science;

(c)any available clinical and non-clinical information of any investigational medicinal product shall beadequate to support any proposed clinical trial;

(d)any clinical trial shall be scientifically sound and described in a clear, detailed and completeclinicaltrial protocol;

(e)a clinical trial shall be conducted in compliance with a clinical trial protocol approved by an EthicsReview Committee recognized by the Authority for the review of clinical trials;

(f)the medical care given to and any medical decision made on behalf of any study participant shall bethe responsibility of a qualified medical practitioner with the reasonable training and experience;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201915A

(g)every person involved in conducting a clinical trial shall be qualified in education, training andexperience to perform such person’s task;

(h)freely given and informed consent shall be obtained from every study participant prior to the initiationof any clinical trial;

(i)all information relating to any clinical trial shall be recorded, handled and deposited in such manneras it allows its accurate reporting, interpretation and verification;

(j)any record by which the study participant can be identified shall be protected respecting the privacyand confidentiality of rules in terms of applicable written law;

(k)systems of procedures which assure the quality of each aspect of the clinical trial shall be implemented;and

(l)possession of valid GCP certification.

(2)The Authority may require any person who conducts a clinical trial to furnish any information or to producefor inspection any document or record within the possession of such person.

75.The Authority shall recognize Ethics Review Committees for the purpose of approval of clinical trials for anycategory of medicine medical devices and borderline products specified in subsection (1) of regulation 2 and thelist of such recognized Ethics Review Committees shall be published in the website of the Authority.

76.The Authority may use relevant clinical trial decisions, reports or information of a regulatory authority ofanother country as may be recognized by the Authority.

77.(1) The Authority may make guidelines in relation to the following matters: -

(a)the format and supporting documents for the application for a letter of authorization to conduct aclinical trial;

(b)the Manual of ICH Good Clinical Practice Guidelines;

(c)the format of the import license;

(d)the report of serious adverse events;

(e)the compensation in the event of a serious clinical trial–related injury;

(f)phases of clinical trials that can be conducted in Sri Lanka.

(2) The Authority may issue instructions from time to time in relation to the conduct of clinical trials.

78.Every sponsor, principal investigator or holder of a letter of authorization shall comply with provisions of theNational Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015, regulations made thereunder, guidelines issuedunder these regulations and instructions relating to the conduct of clinical trials issued by the National MedicinesRegulatory Authority.

79.The Authority may at any time require any person –

(a)to furnish any information with the person’s knowledge; or

(b)to produce for inspection any document or record within the person’s possession,

that the Authority believes on reasonable grounds to be connected with any suspected contravention of theseregulations or to be otherwise relevant to the administration or enforcement of these regulations.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201916A

80.Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations commits an offence and shall on convictionliable to the punishment as provided in section 131 of the National Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5of 2015.

81. In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires –

“adverse drug reaction” means a response to a pharmaceutical product that is noxious and unintended andwhich occurs at doses normally used or tested in humans for prophylaxis, diagnosis or therapy ofdisease or for the modification of physiological function. In clinical trials injuries caused byoverdosing, abuse or dependence and interactions with any other product should be considered adversereactions.

“adverse event” means any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or study participant administered aninvestigational medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with thistreatment. An adverse event (AE) can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (includingan abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with theuse of an investigational medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the investigationalmedicinal product;

“clinical trial” means any research study that prospectively assigns human participants or groups of humansto one or more health-related interventions to evaluate the effects on health outcomes. Interventionsmay include but are not restricted to substances such as drugs, cells and other biological products,vaccines, surgical procedures, radiological procedures, or any other item claimed to have therapeuticbenefit;

“clinical research organization” means a scientific organization to which a sponsor may transfer in writingsome of its duties and functions;

“clinical trial protocol” means a document explaining the background, rationale and the objectives of theclinical trial and describes its design, methodology and the organization which is involved in suchclinical trial and shall include the statistical considerations, the conditions under which the clinicaltrial is to be carried out and managed. The clinical trial protocol shall be dated and signed by theinvestigator, the institution involved in such clinical trial and the sponsor;

“drug” includes a group of drugs;

“Ethics Review Committee” means an independent body recognized by the National Medicines RegulatoryAuthority consisting of medical professionals and non-medical persons whose responsibility is toverify whether the safety, integrity and human rights of the clinical trial participants in a given clinicaltrial are protected and to consider the general ethics of such clinical trial;

“Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Guidelines” means identified ethical and scientific quality requirementswhich are internationally recognized and which must be observed for designing, conducting, recordingand reporting clinical trials that involve the participation of human subjects. Compliance with GCPprovides assurance that the rights, safety, and well-being of the study participants are protected, andthe results of the clinical trials are credible;

“informed consent” means voluntary written assent of a study participant’s willingness to participate in aparticular clinical trial and its documentation. Such consent shall be taken only after informationabout the clinical trial, including an explanation of its status as research, its objectives, potentialbenefits, risks and inconveniences, alternative treatment that may be available and the rights andresponsibilities of the study subject has been provided to the potential study subject;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'14PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 14.10.201917A

“investigational medicinal product” means any pharmaceutical product or placebo being tested or used as areference in a clinical trial;

“investigator” means a doctor or dentist, as the case may be, involved or engaged in a clinical trial underthe supervision of a principal investigator specified in a letter of authorization as the person responsiblefor the conduct and supervision of a clinical trial;

“investigator’s brochure” means A collection of data for the investigator consisting of all the relevantinformation on the Investigational medicinal product, including chemical and pharmaceutical dataand toxicological, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data obtained from studies in animals aswell as in humans, and the results of earlier clinical trials. There should be adequate data to justifythe nature, scale and duration of the proposed clinicaltrial and to evaluate the potential safety andneed for special precautions. If new data are generated, the investigator’s brochure must be updated;

“investigational product labeling” means labeling developed specifically for products involved in a clinicaltrial;

“legal representative”, in relation to a person who is to be used as a study subject in a clinical trial, meansan individual or judicial or other body authorized under the law to grant consent on behalf of thatperson, to the participation of such person in the clinical trial;

“pharmaceutical product” means any substance or combination of substances which has a therapeutic,prophylactic or diagnostic use, or is intended to modify physiological functions, and is presented ina dosage form suitable for administration to humans;

“principal investigator or in the case of multi centre studies, the coordinating principal investigator ornational coordinator” means a doctor or dentist who shall be registered with the Sri Lanka MedicalCouncil and attached to the Ministry of Health or recognized health care institution or any universityestablished or deemed to be established under Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 and, specified in aletter of authorization as the person responsible for the conduct and supervision of a clinical trial;

“serious adverse event” or “serious adverse reaction” means Any untoward medical occurrence that at anydose results in death is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalisation or prolongation of existinghospitalisation, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect;

“sponsor” means any individual, a company, an institution or an organization responsible for the initiation,management or financing of a clinical trial. Where an investigator initiates and is fully responsiblefor a clinicaltrial, such investigator also acts as the sponsor of such clinical trial;

“study participant” means an individual participating in a clinical trial either as a recipient of the investigationalproduct which is under investigation or as a control. Such individual may be a healthy person whovolunteers to participate in the clinical trial or a person whose condition is unrelated to the use ofsuch investigational product or a person (usually a patient) whose condition is relevant to the use ofsuch investigational product;

“unexpected adverse drug reaction” means an adverse reaction, the nature or severity of which is not consistentwith the applicable investigational product information.

10- 1010

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.