PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

————————

[Bill No. 333]

————————

Presented by the Minister of Health and Indigenous Medicineon 10th February, 2015

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10. 00

2-2d

2-

NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO ANDALCOHOL (AMENDMENT)

to amend the National Authority on Tobacco and AlcoholAct, No. 27 of 2006

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 34 of the National Authority on Tobacco andAlcohol Act, No.27 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and thelegal effect of the section as amended is to—

(a)extend the prohibition imposed under section 34 to importers and the personswho supply, distribute and store tobacco products;

(b)remove the provisions which enable to specify by way of regulations the dimensionof the health warnings to be displayed on the packets, packages and cartons oftobacco products;

(c)increase the fine imposed on an offender under section 34.

Clause 3 : This clause inserts new section 34A in the principal enactment and the legaleffect of the section is to specify the manner in which the health warnings to be displayed.

Clause 4 : This clause amends section 45 of the principal enactment and the legal effectof that section is to insert a definition for the expression “health warnings”.

Clause 5 : This clause grants a grace period up to June 1, 2015 to the manufacturers andimporters of existing stocks of tobacco products to comply with the provisions of section34A.

Clause 6 : This clause provides for the continuous operation of the regulations madeprior to the date of operation of the amending Act under section 30 read with section 34 ofthe principal enactment in so far as is not inconsistent with this Act.

1National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment)

2—PL 008771—475 (02/2015)

L.D.—O. 8/2015.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY ON TOBACCO ANDALCOHOL ACT, NO. 27 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the National Authorityon Tobacco and Alcohol (Amendment) Act, No. of 2015.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall be deemed to havecome into operation with effect from February 1, 2015.

2.Section 34 of the National Authority on the Tobaccoand Alcohol Act, No. 27 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to asthe “principale enactment”) is hereby repealed and thefollowing section substituted therefor:—

34 (1) A manufacturer or an importer of atobacco product shall cause to be displayedconspicuously and in legible print on the topsurface area of bothe front and back sides ofevery packet, package or carton containing thetobacco product manufactured or imported bysuch manufacturer or importer, a lable or astatement specifying the tar and nicotinecontent in each tobacco product in such packet,package or carton along with such healthwarnings, as may be prescribed, subject tosection 34A.

(2) A person shall not sell, offer for sale,supply, distribute or store a packet, package orcarton containing tobacco products unless astatement containing the tar and nicotinecontent and the health warnings are displayedconspicuously in legible print on the topsurface area of both front and back sides ofevery packet, package or carton containingthe tobocco product, as provided for insubsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

“Prohibitionof themanufacture,sale, importetc. oftobaccoproductswithouthealthwarnings anda label or astatement oftar andnicotinecontent.

Short titleand date ofoperation.

Replacementof section 34of Act, No.27 of 2006.

30

National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment)2

(3) Any person who contravenes theprovisions of this section shall commit anoffence and upon conviction after summarytrial by a Magistrate be liable to animprisonment of either description for a termnot exceeding one year or to a fine notexceeding rupees fifty thousand or to both suchfine and imprisonment.”.

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after Section 34 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 34A of the principal enactment:—

34A. (1) A manufacturer or an importer ofcigarettes and other tobacco products shallcause to be printed the health warning referredto in section 34(1), covering an area of eightyper centum of the top surface area (principledisplay area) of both front and back sides ofevery packet, package or carton containingcigarettes and other tobacco products.

(2) A foresaid health warnings shall indicatethe health hazards and the harmful effectscaused by the usage of tobocco products, asmay be prescribed.

(3) The health warning on the front and backsides of the packet, package or carton shalldefer from each other.

(4) Where a manufacturer manufacturesmore than one brand of cigarettes and othertobaccoe products, the manufacturer shallensure that two different brands manufacturedby such manufacturer shall not bear the samehealth warning, simultaneously.

(5) The health warnings printed on thepackets, packages or cartons of cigarettes andother tobacco products shall be changed once

Insertion ofnew section34A in theprincipalenactment.“How todisplayhealthwarnings.

5

10

20

25

30

15

35

3National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment)

in every six months in order to cover allprescribed types of health warnings out ofevery prescribed category of health warnings.

(6) The manufacturers and importers ofcigarettes and other tobacco products shall berequired to use the compact disc containingthe prescribed health warnings which shall beobtained only from the Authority.”.

4.Section 45 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immedialely after the definitionof the expression “Chairman” of the following definition:—

“ “Health warnings” includes pictures or pictogramsand messages.”

5.Notwithstanding the provisions of section 1 (2), themanufacturers and importes of existing stocks of tobaccoproducts shall be granted a grace period up to June 1, 2015,to comply with the provisions of section 34A.

6.Every regulation made in terms of the provisions ofsection 34 of the principal enactment, prior to February 1,2015, shall be deemed to be continuously in operation, witheffect from February 1, 2015, in so far as is not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

ENDORSEMENT UNDER ARTICLE 122 OFTHE CONSTITUTION

It is hereby certified that in the view of the Cabinet ofMinisters the above Bill is urgent in the national interest.

Sumith Abeysinghe,Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers.28th January, 2015

5

10

15

20

Amendmentof sectionm45 of theprincipalenactment.

Transitional.provisions.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

Savings

25

National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol(Amendment)4

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.