==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.01.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2106$11 - 2019 ckjdß ui 16 jeks nodod - 2019'01'16

No. 2106/11 - WEDNESDAY JANUARY 16, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Proclamations & C., by the President

P.S. No. : PS/CSA/00/1/14/6

BY HIS EXCELLENCY MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA PRESIDENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA.

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

Seal

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A- G 28937 — 397 (01/2019)

To :

1.Honourable Abeyratne Herath Mudiyanselage Upaly Abeyrathne EsquireRetired Judge of the Supreme Court2.Honourable (Ms.) Sarojini Kusala WeerawardaneRetired Judge of the High Court3.Pasdunkorale Arachchige Pemathilaka EsquireRetired Auditor General4.Lalith R. de Silva EsquireRetired Secretary to a Ministry5.M. K. D. Wijaya Amarasinghe EsquireRetired Deputy Inspector - General

Greetings :

WHEREAS, a large number of serious complaints and allegations had been made against persons who had held or continueto hold political office and those who have been or continue to be public servants and officers of statutory bodies,regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property, cheating and abuse ormisuse of power or authority, State resources and privileges, which offences and acts of wrongdoing had occurred duringthe period 10th January 2010 to 10th January, 2015, and resulted in serious loss or damage to State assets and revenue and

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.01.20192A

that a Commissioin of Inquiry was established by me by warrant dated 03rd March, 2015 in terms of provisions of Section2 of the Presidential Commission of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) to make investigations and inquiries into the aforesaidcomplaints, allegations and information with the view to assertaining the veracity of such complaints, allegations andinformation.

AND WHEREAS, the final report of the said Commission was handed over to me on 02nd January, 2018.

AND WHEREAS, A large number of serious complaints and allegations had been made against persons who hadheld or continue to hold political office and those who have been or continue to be public servants and officers ofstatutory bodies regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminal misappropriation of property,cheating and abuse or misuse of power or authority, State resources and privilages during the period 15th January, 2015 to31st December, 2018.

AND WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is in the interest of public security and welfare, to cause the conductof investigations and inquiries into such complaints, allegations and information, in order to determine what measuresshould be taken to provide for and ensure that the law is appropriately enforced and wrongdoers dealt with in terms of thelaw, and that there will be no recurrence of such alleged acts amounting to offences and abuse or misuse of power orauthority.

AND WHEREAS, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigateand inquire into and report or take necessary action on matters hereinafter referred to and provided for.

NOW THEREFORE, I, Maithripala Sirisena, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaresposing great trust and confidence in your integrity, prudence, ability and fidelity, do in pursuance of the provisions ofSection 2 of the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393), by these presents appoint you, the said :

1.Honourable Abeyratne Herath Mudiyanselage Upaly Abeyrathne EsquireRetired Judge of the Supreme Court2.Honourable (Ms.) Sarojini Kusala WeerawardaneRetired Judge of the High Court3.Pasdunkorale Arachchige Pemathilaka EsquireRetired Auditor General4.Lalith R. de Silva EsquireRetired Secretary to a Ministry5.M. K. D. Wijaya Amarasinghe EsquireRetired Deputy Inspector - General

to be my Commissioners to investigate and inquire into, take necessary action and report on the following mattersnamely :

1. To call for and receive public complaints, information and other material relating to serious allegations against

persons who have held or continue to hold political office, those who have been or continue to be publicservants and officers of statutory bodies, regarding acts of corruption, fraud, criminal breach of trust, criminalmisappropriation of property, cheating, and abuse or misuse of power, State resources and privileges allegedlyoccurred during the period of 15th January, 2015 to 31st December, 2018 and have resulted in serious loss ordamages to State assets and State revenue ;

2. To conduct prompt, impartial, comprehensive investigations and inquiries into complaints, information and

allegations referred to in paragraph 1 above ;

3. To Identify persons who have been or are responsible in terms of the law for committing such offences, acts of

wrongdoing, and abuse or misuse of power or authority, State resources and privileges ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'01'16PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.01.20193A

4. To Identify and collect evidence available with regard to such offences and acts of wrongdoing as referred to in

paragrph 1 above, and against persons responsible for having committed offences connected with such incidentsand wrongdoing ;

5. To Identity which of the acts coming within the ambit of matters referred to in paragraph 1 above, should be

forwarded to the Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption or to the Police or to anyother law enforcement authority or statutory body for the conduct of necessary investigations an inquiries withthe view to instituting criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences ;

6. To transmit to the Attorney General investigational and inquiry material, enabling the Attorney General to consider

the institution of criminal proceedings against persons alleged to have committed the said offences and prosecutethe accused ;

7. To present to me recommendations of the Commission regarding what action if any, should be taken against

those held responsible for having committed offences and acts of wrongdoing and recommendations aimed atpreventing the occurrence of such offences and acts of wrongdoing in the future ;

And, I do hereby appoint you the said Honourable Abeyratne Herath Mudiyanselage Upaly Abeyratne Esquire,Retired Judge of the Supreme Court to be the Chairman of the said Commission.

AND, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to conduct or cause the conduct ofnecessary criminal and forensic investigations and inquiries and hold all public and or confidential inquires into theaforesaid matters as may appear to you to be necessary, and require you to transmit to me within three months from thedate of this warrant the first Interim Report, and thereafter subsequent Interim Reports once a month, and the Final Reportwithin the six months of the date hereof under your hand, setting out the findings of your investigations and inquiries, andyour recommedations relating thereto.

AND, I hereby direct that any three Commissioners from among you shall participate in the Commission meetingsto fulfill its quorum.

AND, I do hereby direct that such part of any investigations or inquiry relating to the aforesaid matters, as youmay in your discretion determine, shall not be held in public.

AND, I do hereby require and direct all public servants and officers of statutory bodies, and other persons towhom you may apply for assistance or information, to render all such assistance and furnish all such information requiredfor investigation or inquiries as may be properly rendered and furnished in that behalf.

AND, I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shallapply to this Commission.

Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on this 14th day ofJanuary, 2019.

By order of His Excellency,

UDAYA R. SENEVIRATNE,Secretary to the President.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.