==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV(ආ) ෙකʣටස – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.07.24

Pൺඋඍ IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.20251A

ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ ගැසŸ පƴය

අƯ ɪෙශෂThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialis t Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

අංක 2446/43 – 2025 Œɣ මස 24 වැǧ ȯහස්පƯǦදා – 2025.07.24

No. 2446/43 – THURSDAY, JULY 24, 2025

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG7214– 10 (07/2025)

(Published by Authority)PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT

Local Government Notiﬁcations

Jaﬀna Municipal Council

Gൺඓൾඍඍൾ Nඈඍංൿංർൺඍංඈඇ Rൾ඀ൺඋൽංඇ඀ ඍඁൾ Aർඍංඏංඍංൾඌ Cൺඋඋංൾൽ ඈඎඍ ൻඒ ඍඁൾ Jൺൿൿඇൺ Mඎඇංർංඉൺඅ Cඈඎඇർංඅ ൽඎඋංඇ඀ ඍඁൾ Aඇඇඎൺඅ Gඋൺඇൽ Fൾඌඍංඏൺඅ ඈൿ ඍඁൾ Nൺඅඅඎඋ Kൺඇൽൺඌඐൺආඒ Tൾආඉඅൾ.

THIS is published in accordance with section 56 of the Municipal Council Ordinance No. 29 of 1947, and in accordance with Bylaws No. 2024 dated 16th June 2017 and No. 2421 dated 24th January 2025, which were adopted by the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council’s Gazette notiﬁ cation and also in accordance with the resolution No. JMC/2025/06/09 dated 23rd June 2025 of the Municipal Council’s monthly meeting.

Mඋඌ. V. Mൺඍඁංඏൺඍඁൺඇං, Mayor, Jaﬀ na Municipal Council.

At the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council Oﬃ ce, on July 17, 2025. Activities

1. The Nallur Kandaswamy Temple Grand Festival commences on the sixth day after Aadi Amavasai with the ceremonial hoisting of the holy ﬂ ag and continues for duration of twenty-seven days each year.

2. One month prior to the commencement of the annual grand festival, two discussions will be organized to plan the festival arrangements. Following the ﬁ rst discussion, permanent residents and vendors located within the road barrier area will be invited for a separate meeting, during which their views and concerns will be taken into consideration. Thereafter, the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council will proceed with the remaining arrangements for the Grand Festival.

IV(ආ) ෙකʣටස – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.07.24

Pൺඋඍ IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.20252A

3. Road barriers within the temple surroundings will be active from the early morning of the Bhairava Shanthi festival, which occurs the day before the holy ﬂ ag hoisting ceremony, until midnight on the 27th day of the festival, marking the conclusion of the Bhairava Shanthi festival.

4. The locations for setting up barriers around the temple are decided by the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council. These road barriers are determined by the Council in consultation with the temple administration, the Road Development Authority, permanent residents, and permanent vendors within the temple premises, in accordance with the recommendations of the expert committee.

5. In the case of road barriers around the temple’s circular road, vehicles traveling along Point Pedro Road can use Nallur Cross Road, located in front of the Jaﬀ na Municipal Councilas an alternative route to reach Jaﬀ na town via the Anaipanthi Junction on Navalar Road. Similarly, vehicles traveling from Jaﬀ na town can use the same route to reach Point Pedro. Additionally, vehicles on Point Pedro Road will be allowed to turn at Muththirai Junction and continue along Kachcheri-Nallur Road. Vehicles traveling from Jaﬀ na town will also be permitted to use this same route.

6. Jaﬀ na Municipal Council will issue vehicle passes, with the necessary certiﬁ cation, to permanent residents and vendors residing within the road barrier zones around the temple. These passes will specify the relevant roads and are intended to ensure that daily health, emergency, and essential needs are not disrupted. Each pass will be color-coded according to the speciﬁ c road for which it is valid.

7. Only vehicles belonging to the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council, as well as those of permanent residents and vendors who have been granted special permission, will be allowed to enter the sacred areas marked with red and white ﬂ ags by the temple administration, within the outer and inner corridors (prakaras) of the temple.

8. No vehicles will be permitted to park along the roads within the ﬁ rst and second barrier zones. Additionally, no vehicles will be allowed to enter through the road barriers when the Swami enters the outer corridor (Prakara).

9. Authorized vehicles will be permitted to load and unload goods for business establishments located within the outer road barrier zone and outside the sacred areas marked with red and white ﬂ ags around the temple’s outer corridor. This will be allowed during the festival season between 1:00 p.m. and 2:30 p.m., and from 10:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. The receipt issued conﬁ rming the temporary business activities by the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council may be used as a vehicle pass for this purpose.

10. All tractors and vehicles carrying Thooku Kavadis and other Kavadis for fulﬁ lling votive oﬀ erings may enter only via Point Pedro Road, located in front of the temple. These Kavadis must be unloaded in front of the Srimurugan Water Pandal on Point Pedro Road. Arrangements will be made for the vehicles that have unloaded the Kavadis to exit through Chetty Street.

11. Security arrangements for the inner and outer areas of the temple will be handled by the police. Police personnel will also work alongside Jaﬀ na Municipal Council staﬀ to manage the road barriers. CCTV cameras will be installed around the outer surroundings of the temple and monitored by the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council.

12. All administrative coordination and observations in the temple surrounding such as sanitation, drinking water supply, splashing water on the roads, solid and liquid waste disposal, repair of electrical bulbs, purchase and spreading of sand on the outer corridor (pragara) of the temple, and the provision of sand to pandals located in the surrounding of the temple on a payment basis, as well as road barrier maintenance will be carried out by Jaﬀ na Municipal Council.

IV(ආ) ෙකʣටස – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2025.07.24

Pൺඋඍ IV (B) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.07.20253A

13. Alms-giving areas, drinking water stations, and meal distribution points around the temple should be maintained in accordance with health regulations. These facilities will be monitored under the direct supervision of the Medical Oﬃ cer of Health.

14. Refreshments for police oﬃ cers assigned to security duties, as well as for members of voluntary organizations working in coordination with Jaﬀ na Municipal Council during the festival season, will be provided by Jaﬀ na Municipal Council.

15. Permission for vehicle parking around the temple must be obtained from Jaﬀ na Municipal Council. Only the parking fee approved by Jaﬀ na Municipal Council can be charged.

16. The plan to establish temporary shops within the temple premises will be prepared by Jaﬀ na Municipal Council based on expert recommendations. These shops will be allocated in accordance with the tender notice.

17. The following activities are strictly prohibited within the temple premises during the festival season:

• Conducting any temporary businesses, advertisements, telecasts, or broadcasts within inner corridor pragara of sacred areas demarcated by white and red ﬂ ags during the festival season. • Entering the outer corridor (pragara) of the temple with footwear during the festival season • Organizing any audio or video programs other than devotional content, or displaying advertisements within the temple premises during the festival season • Engaging in business or begging activities using children during the festival season. • Recording videos using drones or showering ﬂ owers from helicopters within the temple premises. • Using polythene within the temple premises. (In accordance with the Gazette notiﬁ cation of the Central Environmental Authority 2034/33,34,35,36,37,38- 2017.09.01, 2211/51 - 2021.01.21, 2341/30 - 2023.07.19, 2353/55 - 2023.10.12) • Publishing images of deities in any leaﬂ et released within the temple premises during the festival season

18. Based on the annual discussions, certain provisions of the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council related to security and health may be revised as per the prevailing situation.

The publication regarding the activities carried out by the Jaﬀ na Municipal Council during the Nallur Kandaswami Temple Grand Festival, as published in Section (IV)(b) of Gazette No. 2350 dated 15th September 2023, is hereby cancelled.

EOG 07-0300

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.