PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

————————

[Bill No. 136]

————————

Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of Buddha Sasana andReligious Affairs on 08th November, 2011

(Published in the Gazette on October 17, 2011)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

A

BILL

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

2-2d

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING (AMENDMENT)

to amend the Town and Country Planning Ordinance (Chapter 269)

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause replaces the Long Title to the Town and Country PlanningOrdinance (Chapter 269) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legaleffect of this amendment is to widen the scope of the activities which can be implementedunder the Act.

Clause 3 : This clause replaces section 2 of the principal enactment and the legal effect isto require the National Physical Council to prepare a National Physical Policy and aNational Physical Plan for the purpose of protecting and conserving the different categoriesof areas, which may be declared under the Act.

Clause 4 : This clause replaces section 6 of the principal enactment and the legal effect isto enhance the scope of the Act.

Clause 5 : This clause inserts sections 6A and 6B in the principal enactment and the legaleffect is to empower the Minsiter in charge of the subject of Buddha Sasana and ReligiousAffairs to declare areas as “Sacred Areas” in terms of the Act.

Clause 6 : This clause amends section 21 of the principal enactment and the legal effect ofthe section as amended is consequential to the amendment made by clause 4 of the Bill.

Clause 7 : This clause makes provision for the validation of certain acts carried out underthe provision of section 6 of the Act, prior to its amendment.

1Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

2—PL 006341—1,100 (11/2011)

Short title.

Replacementof the LongTitle to(Chapter269).

L.D.—O. 42/2011.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 269)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.This Act may be cited as the Town and CountryPlanning (Amendment) Act, No. of 2011.

2.The Long Title to the Town and Country PlanningOrdinance (Chapter 269) (hereinafter referred to as the“principal enactment”) is hereby repealed and thefollowing Long Title substituted therefor:—

“An Act to provide for the formulation andimplementation of a National Physical PlanningPolicy with the objectives of promoting, preserving,conserving and regulating a system of integratedplanning in relation to the economic, social, historic,environmental, physical and religious aspects of landin Sri Lanka; for the preparation of a national physicalplan for the purpose of giving effect to the statedobjectives; to facilitate the acquisition of land for thepurpose of giving effect to the objectives; and to providefor matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.”.

3.Section 2 of the Town and Country PlanningOrdinance (Chapter 269) (hereinafter referred to as “theprincipal enactment”) is hereby repealed and the followingsection substituted therefor:—

2. (1) The National Physical Councilestablished under section 3 of this Act shalltake steps under this Ordinance to prepare aNational Physical Policy and a NationalPhysical Plan which shall embody the saidPolicy in order to give effect to the objectivesto the Act as set out below.

Replacementof section 2of the Townand CountryPlanningOrdinance(Chapter269).“Preparationof theNationalPhysical Planand its scopeandobjectives ofthe Act.30

Town and Country Planning (Amendment)2

5

10

15

20

(2) The objectives of this Act shall be topromote, preserve, conserve and regulate asystem of integrated planning anddevelopment for securing proper infrastructure,amenities and conveniences in relation to theeconomic, social, historic, environmental,physical and religious aspects of land in SriLanka (whether or not there are buildingstherein), and for such purpose, there may bedeclared in accordance with the succeedingprovisions of this Act—

(a)“Protection Areas”;

(b)“Conservation Areas”;

(c)“Architectural” or “Historic Areas”; and

(d)“Sacred Areas”.

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:—

6. The Minister may, within any municipalarea, an urban development area or within anytrunk road development area, by Orderpublished in the Gazette declare, for givingeffect to the objectives of the Ordinance, anyarea of defined land, to be —

(a)a “Protection Area” for the protectionof natural amenities;

(b)a “Conservation Area” for theconservation of the naturalenvironment and the protection ofplaces of natural beauty within theenvironment; or

Replacementof section 6of theprincipalenactment.“Declarationof“Protectionareas”,ConservationAreas”,“Architectural”or “HistoricAreas”, forthe purposesof theOrdinance.25

30

3Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

(c)an “Architectural” or “Historic Area”for the conservation of building ofarchitectural and historic value”.

5.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 6 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 6A and section 6B of thatenactment:—

6A.The Minister to whom the subject ofBuddha Sasana and Religious Affairs isassigned, shall after, notifying the Minister towhom the subject of Physical Planning has beenassigned, within any urban development area,within any trunk road development area ofany regional development area. by Orderpublished in the Gazette declare for thepurposes of the Ordinance, any area of definedland, to be a “Sacred Area” for the purpose ofprotection and conservation of such area.

6B (1) Every Order made in terms of section6 and section 6A of the Ordinance shall set outclearly the purpose for which such Order ismade and contain a description of the metesand bounds of such area.

(2)An Order under section 21 of the Act shallbe made in relation to an area declared in termsof section 6 and section 6A of the Ordinance.”.

6Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following subsection :-

“(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), theMinister may, on application made to him in thatbehalf under the preceding provisions of this Part, byOrder published in the Gazette direct that,-

(a)a “regional physical plan” shall be preparedfor any regional development area ; or

Insertion ofnew sections6A and 6B inthe principalenactment.

“Declarationof “SacredAreas” forthe purposesof theOrdinance.

Order to setout thepurpose anddescriptionofboundaries.

Amendmentof section 21of theprincipalenactment.

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Town and Country Planning (Amendment)4

(b)an “outline physical plan” or a “detailedplan” shall be prepared for the whole or anypart of any urban development area or anytrunk road development area.”.

7.Any Order made by the Minister under section 6 ofthe principal enactment, at any time prior to the coming intooperation of this Act, shall, with effect from the coming intooperation of this Act, be deemed to be an Order declaringany defined area to be a “Sacred Area” made under section6A of this Act and the provisions of the principal enactmentand this Act shall be applicable thereto.

8.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Validation.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency.

5

10

5Town and Country Planning (Amendment)

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.