==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

අංංක 2473/17 - 2026 ජනවාාරි මස 29 වැැනි බ්‍රහස්පතින්දාා - 2026.01.29No. 2473/17 - THURSDAY, JANUARY 29, 2026

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

DRAFT

Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

ORDER UNDER SECTION 8

BY virtue of the powers vested in the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka under section 8 of the Civil Aviation Act No.14 of 2010, I, Captain Daminda Rabukwella, Director General of the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka on behalf of the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka, hereby order that the Statutory Service Provider named in schedule I shall make available the Properties specified in schedule II and schedule Ill for Civil Aviation activities subject to the terms and conditions set out in schedule IV with effect from on the date of execution of the Agreement between Civil Aviation Authority and Airport and Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) (Private) Limited as stipulated under terms and conditions in schedule IV..Schedule I

Airport and Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) (Private) Limited (AASL)

Schedule IIAerodromes

• Katunayake Bandaranaike International Airport• Ratmalana International Airport• Batticaloa International Airport• Jaffna International Airport

1A- G 46194 - 04 (01/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'01'29Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.01.20262A

Schedule IllAeronautical facilities and the land appertaining thereto

1. The Civil Aviation Training Centre at Kandawala Road, Rathmalana, the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

2. The Aeronautical Communication Transmission Station at Attidiya, Ratmalana, the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

3. The Radio Navigational Aid for Bandaranaike International Airport located at Madampella, Gampaha, the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

4. The Radio Navigation Aid for runway at Bandaranaike International Airport located at Kapungoda, Pamunugama in Gampaha, the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

5. The Radar Station located at Mount Pidurutalagala, the buildings and structures thereon and the land appertaining thereto.

6. The land at Pidurutalagala, in Nuwara Eliya District where the holiday bungalows for aviation staff have been constructed, including any structures thereon or appertaining thereto.

Schedule IVTerms and Conditions

1. Airport and Aviation Services (Sri Lanka) (Private) Limited (AASL) shall enter into an Agreement for each property specified in schedule II and Ill with the Director General of Civil Aviation immediately following the publication of this Gazette Notification.

2. The effective date for Implementation of this order shall be the date on which the above­ mentioned Agreement is duly signed.

3. Airport and Aviation services (Sri Lanka) (Private) Limited (AASL) shall comply with the following regulations Imposed by the Honorable Minister of Civil Aviation

I. Regulation No. 1 Published in Extraordinary Gazette No. 2422/38 and, 06.02.2025

II. Regulation No. 2 Published in Extraordinary Gazette No. 2422/39 and 06.02.2025

4. Airport and Aviation services (Sri Lanka) (Private) Limited (AASL) shall comply with the terms and conditions stipulated in the Order and hold and maintain such immovable property or Aerodromes in good condition.

5. Any immovable property or Aerodromes are made available shall not effect any alteration in such property or Aerodrome or put up any new constructions in such property; or grant a lease of any such property or Aerodrome to anyone, without the prior written approval of the Authority. Capt. Daminda Rambukwella, Director General of Civil Aviation and Chief Executive Officer.No. 152/1,Minuwangod Road,Katunayake,January 07, 2026.

EOG 01 - 0279

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.