==== BLOCKS ==== 

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

1A - G 46457 - 23 (03/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices

CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA ACT, No. 16 OF 2023

RULES made under Section 105 read with Sections 106 and 78(b) of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023.

P. Nandalal Weerasinghe, Chairman of the Governing Board and Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.Central Bank of Sri Lanka,Colombo,11th March, 2026.

RULES ON THE COLLECTION OF STATISTICS AND INFORMATION

1. These Rules shall be cited as the “Rules on the Collection of Statistics and Information by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka No. 01 of 2026”.

2. The Central Bank, acting in terms of the provisions of Section 78(b) read in conjunction with the provisions of Sections 105 and 106 of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023, (hereinafter referred to as “the Act“) hereby issues Rules in respect of the statistics and infomation required by the Central Bank in order to achieve its objects and for the effective exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023 or any other written law.

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රයඅති විශෙˤෂ

අංංක 2479/54 - 2026 මාාර්තු මස 12 වැැනි බ්‍රහස්පතින්දාා - 2026.03.12No. 2479/54 - THURSDAY, MARCH 12, 2026

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.20262A

3. Except as otherwise specifically permitted in the Act or any other written law, it shall be lawful for any Deputy Governor or Head of the Economic Research Department or Head of the Statistics Department of the Central Bank (hereinafter referred to as the “authorised officer“) to require any person, at any time by Notice in writing, to furnish, provide or supply any statistics, information, data, or documents, whether oral, written or electronic means, (hereinafter referred to as the “information“) as he may consider necessary, within the period of time specified in such Notice, for the effective exercise, performance, and discharge of powers, duties, and functions of the Central Bank under the Act or under any other written law for the time being in force. The authorised officer may require additional information, for the purpose of verifying any information provided by such person.

4. The authorised officer of the Central Bank who collects data under Rule 3 above shall:-

(i) secure confidentiality of the sources of statistics and information until relevant publications are made;

(ii) ensure using the statistics and information furnished, provided or supplied to the Central Bank only for the intended purpose;

(iii) not publish the statistics and information furnished, provided or supplied by any paiticular individual or entity under these Rules for personal benefit; or

(iv) not permit any person other than the persons authorised to engage in compilation, analysing, abstraction and preparation of statistics by the Central Bank to access, review, or examine the statistics and information received pursuant to the Notice issued under Rule 3 above.

5. Any person who -

(i) refuses to provide information or fails to take reasonable steps to secure compliance with the Notice issued under Rule 3;

(ii) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure the accuracy of any information submitted;

(iii) wilfully makes a false entry into information or causes any such entry into statistics and information required to be provided to the Central Bank under the Notice issued under Rule 3; or

(iv) resist or obstruct the authorised officer of the Central Bank to collect information to effectively exercise, discharge, or perform his powers, duties and functions conferred upon him under the Act.

shall be considered as having committed a contravention of these Rules, which is an offence under the Act. 6. Where any person has committed an offence under Rule 5 (iii) or (iv) or both such Rules, as the case may be, it shall be lawful for the Central Bank to consider such offence as a continuing offence, until the requested information shall have been supplied by such person.

7. These Rules shall come into operation on the date on which such Rules are approved by Parliament.

8. For the purposes of these Rules,

“Central Bank” shall mean the Central Bank of Sri Lanka established under the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023;

“Governor” shall mean the Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;

“Governing Board” shall mean the decision making body of the Central Bank established under section 8 of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.16 of 2023;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'12Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.03.2026

3A

“Offence” means a contravention of or failure to comply with any of these Rules against which the Central Bank may take administrative measures or such contravention or failure, which entails criminal sanction under the Act;

“Person” includes any officer of any department of the Government and any body of persons corporate or unincorporate, whether established or constituted by or under any written law or otherwise.

EOG 03 - 0128

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.