==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1898$5 - 2015 ckjdß ui 19 jeks i÷od - 2015'01'19

No. 1898/5 - MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) - PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

WESTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Minute of the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service

THE following mentioned Minute of the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service will be substitutedwithout any detriment to a measure taken or considered as taken under the Western Provincial Council Public Service incompliance to the Minute of Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service, which was published in theExtraordinary Gazette Paper No. 1385/10 dated 23rd March 2005 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and put intoeffect from 01st of January 2004, including the amendments made to the said Service Minute from time to time.

S. ALAVI MOWLANA,

Governor,Western Province.

On the 26th day of December 2014,At Governor’s Secretariat (W.P.),No. 98/4, Havelock Road,Colombo 05.

MINUTE OF THE WESTERN PROVINCIAL PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT’S SERVICE

1. Effective Date : This service minute shall come in to effect from 02nd April, 2013.

2. Appointing Authority :

Management Assistant Non - technical Multi duty - segment I service category - (Grade III, II, I) :Public Service Commission of the Western Provincial Council.

Management Assistant - Supra Grade - service category (Supra Grade) :Public Service Commission of the Western Provincial Council.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www. documents.gov.lk

4 — PG 2330

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.20152A

3. Particulars of the Service Category :

3.1 Service Category : Management Assistant Non - technical Multi duty - segment I - service category

Management Assistant - Supra Grade - Service category

3.2 Grades : Management Assistant Non - technical Multi duty - Segment I

Grade IIIGrade IIGrade I

Management Assistant - Supra Grade : Supra Grade

The Supra Grade shall consist of a scheduled cadre outside the cadre of above mentioned Grade III, II and I.Appointment to this grade shall be made through a selection process based on the vacancies existing in thecadre.

3.3 Entrusting Functions :

Functions shall not be entrusted on the grade basis and the Head of the Department / Institution shall entrustany function out of the functions entrusted to this service category to an officer in any grade on exigency ofservice, based on the seniority and merit.

4. Role of the Service :

Functions, which are not technical, but multi-functional in nature and for which specific skills other than the technicalskills are required out of the tasks which are supportive or facilitating to the tasks of officers in executive, managementand administrative levels of the institutions, shall be entrusted to the officers belonging to this service. Accordingly,the employees belonging to this service shall perform duties out of the tasks of this category which are determinedprecisely.

5. Salary :

5.1 Salary code number : Grade III, II and IMN - 02 - 2006 - ASupra GradeMN - 07 - 2006 - A

5.2 Salary Scale :Structured Grades of III, II and IRs. 13,990 - 10 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 6 x 240 - 14 x 320 - 23,230

Supra GradeRs. 20,030 - 11 x 365 - 18 x 500 - 33,045

5.3 Initial salary step applicable to grade system :

MN - 02 - 2006 - A

GradeSalary StepSalary Point

IIIStep 01Rs. 13,990

IIStep 12Rs. 15,610

IStep 23Rs. 17,550

3AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

MN - 07 - 2006 - A

GradeSalary StepSalary Point

Supra GradeStep 02Rs. 20,395

6. Post / posts belonging to Service category :

6.1 Approved posts and number of approved posts (Shall be as per the approval given by the Director General of

Management Services)

ApprovedGrade to which the post isSalary CodeDesignationsapproved

Western ProvincialWestern Provincial PublicMN - 02 - 2006 - APublic ManagementManagement Assistants’Assistants’Service Grade III/II/I

AdministrativeWestern Provincial PublicMN - 07 - 2006 - AOfficer/SecretaryManagement Assistants’(Pradeshiya Sabha)Service (Supra Grade)

(Annex 01)

6.2 Combined number of officers :

For the purpose of promotions from grade to grade, all the grades i.e III, II and I shall be treated as belongingto the Combined Number of Officers.

The number of employees will be as indicated under each heading and programme in annual estimates.

6.3 Nature of the post in service - Permanent and Pensionable.

7. Method of recruitment :

7.1 Recruitment Ratio

StreamPercentage

Open70%

Limited30%

Note : A number of vacancies of not more than 30% of total vacancies shall be filled by way of promotion of employees

in primary grade of the Western Provincial Public Service on the results of the Limited Competitive Examinationconducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Secretary of Provincial Public ServiceCommission and an interview for verification of qualification.

If the number of persons eligible for appointment on the results of that examination is less than 30% of thevacancies, the difference between the 30% and the number of persons eligible for appointment will be met fromthe persons eligible at the Open Competitive Examination.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.20154A

7.2 Recruitment under Open Stream

7.2.1 Grade of Recruitment : Grade III

7.2.2 Qualifications :

7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications

(a) Shall have passed 06 subjects with credit passes for four subjects including Sinhala / Tamil /

English and Mathematics at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting.

And

(b) Shall have passed all the subjects in G. C. E. (Advanced Level) at one sitting (except the

General paper), Passing three (03) subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting would besufficient for this purpose.

7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Not Applicable

7.2.2.3 Experience : Not Applicable

7.2.2.4 Physical Fitness

All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island andto perform the duties of the post.

7.2.2.5 Other

(i) Candidates shall be of excellent character

(ii) Shall have satisfied each and every way the qualifications, required for the recruitment to the

post, mentioned from 7.2.2. up to 7.2.3. on the prescribed date as per the notification / Gazette.

7.2.2.5.1 Recruitment to the service shall strictly be on a representative basis. A fixed number of

vacancies shall be set apart for each district functioning under the authority of WesternProvincial Council in proportion to its population. Only the applicants from a particulardistrict shall be entitled to compete for the vacancies to be filled in that district.

(i) At the instances where it is not possible to fill the number of vacancies allocated

to a particular district by the qualified candidates applied for the same district, thatnumber of vacancies shall be re-distributed among all the adjoining districts, inproportonate to the population of such districts.

(ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few and the district’s population basis

cannot be applied, selection shall be made in the order of the merit.

(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less

than the number of vancancies available in a district, the district population basisshall not be applied for selection.

5AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

7.2.2.5.2. Eligibility for inclusion in a district.

At least one of the following requirements shall be fulfilled by a candidate to compete forthe vacancies in the district.

(i) The candidate should have been born in the district, or

(ii) He shall have been a permanent resident of the district at least for three (03)

continuous years within the five (05) years immediately preceding the last date tofulfill the eligibility qualifications for the examination, or

(iii) He shall have received secondary school education within the district for five

continuous years.

Note : (i) If the father / mother of any candidate has been employed in a transferable

service of the government or of a Provincial Public Service or of a StateCorporation, then such candidate shall be permitted to choose his father’s /mother’s place of birth as his district.

(ii) No candidate shall be allowed to compete for vacancies in more than one

district. Once a candidates declares a district of his choice as the most preferred,when competing under Section 7.2.2.5.2 above, it shall remain irrevocable.

7.2.3 Age :

7.2.3.1 Minimum age limit : 18 years

7.2.3.2 Maximum age limit : 30 years

7.2.4 Method of Recruitment : Open Competitive Examination

7.2.4.1 Written Examination

SubjectsMaximum MarksPass Marks

Language Proficiency10040

Aptitude10040

(Annex 02)

7.2.4.1.1 Authority for conducting Examination : The Commissioner General of Examination

7.2.4.2 Professional Test : Not applicable

7.2.4.3 Structured Interview : Not applicable

7.2.4.4 General Interview (No marks shall be allocated)

7.2.5 Method of calling for applications : Applications shall be called through a Gazette notification or a public

notice published in all three languages.

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.20156A

7.3 Recruitment under limited stream :

7.3.1 Grade of Recruitment : Grade III

7.3.2 Qualifications :

7.3.2.1 Educational qualifications :

Shall have passed G.C.E. O/L Examination in not less than 06 subjects including Language /Literature and Arithmetic / Pure Mathematics / Elementary Mathematics / Commercial Arithmeticwith credit passes for two subjects at one sitting.

7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Not applicable

7.3.2.3 Experience :

Shall have completed at least a continuous and satisfactory service of 05 years immediatelypreceding the prescribed date, which fact shall be certified by the Head of the Department.

(A training period covered by a candidate prior to the appointment to a certain post on permanentbasis or a training period which shall have to be completed as a condition for appointment to acertain post on permanent basis shall not be considered for the 05 years period for satisfyingabove qualifications. Further the period of service under casual / temporary basis completed by acandidate before his appointment to a certain post on permanent basis shall not be considered forthe 05 year period for satisfying above qualifications.)

7.3.2.4 Physical Fitness

All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island andto perform the duties of the post.

7.3.2.5 Other :

(i) Shall be officers who are holding permanent posts in Western Provincial Council Public

Service and confirmed in those posts while receiving the salary at primary level under salarycodes of PL category and officers receiving salary under salary code MN - 01 - 2006 A as perPublic Administration Circular No. 06/2006.

(ii) Candidates shall be of excellent character

(iii) Shall have satisfied all the qualifications required for recruitment to the post as at date

prescribed in the Gazette notification.

7.3.3 Method of Recruitment : Limited Competitive Examination

7.3.3.1 Written Examination

SubjectsMaximum MarksPass Marks

Language ability and Qualifying10040Test for Management Assistants

Aptitude10040

(Annex 03)

7AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

7.3.3.1.1 Authority for conducting Examination : The Commissioner General of Examination

7.3.3.2 Professional Test : Not applicable

7.3.3.3 Structured Interview : Not applicable

7.3.3.4 General Interview (No marks shall be allocated)

7.3.4 Method of calling for applications : Details pertaining to the method of application to Limited Competitive

Examination and recommendation paper will be as per a notice published in the Gazette or in an internalcircular.

8. Efficiency Bar

8.1

EfficiencyAt what point the limit forNature of the Efficiency BarBarpassing the Efficiency BarWritten/Professional/expires (number of years)Certificate courses/other

1st Efficiency BarBefore three years from the dateWritten (Annex 04)of recruitment to Grade III

2nd Efficiency BarBefore three years from the dateWritten (Annex 05)of promotion to Grade II

3rd Efficiency BarBefore five years from the dateWritten (Annex 06)of promotion to Grade I

8.2 The Efficiency Bar Examination shall be conducted twice every year.

8.3 Authority for conducting Examination : The Commissioner General of Examination.

9. Language Proficiency

9.1

LanguageProficiency to be satisfied

Official LanguageOfficers who have been appointed to service in a language other than anyofficial language shall acquire proficiency in one of the official languagesbefore confirmation in the service.

Other Official LanguageProficiency at the relevant level shall be acquired as per Public AdministrationCircular 01/2014 and other circulars consequential thereto.

10. Grade Promotions

10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II

10.1.1 Employees who prove average performance

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.20158A

10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied

(i) Shall have been confirmed in the post

(ii) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least 10 years in

Grade III of the service category and earned 10 salary increments.

(iii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of 10

years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performanceappraisal procedure.

(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five years immediately preceding to the

date of promotion.

(v) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.

(vi) Shall have obtained the proficiency in other official language at the relevant level.

10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion

When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to the Secretary forpromotion to Grade II by using the form given in Annex 07, the promotion shall be made to beeffective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications after verifying thesequalifications by the Secretary.

10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I

10.2.1 Employees who prove average performance

10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied

(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory period of service for at least ten (10) years

in Grade II of the service category and earned ten (10) salary increments.

(ii) Shall have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above during the period of 10

years immediately preceding the date of promotion as per the approved performanceappraisal procedure.

(iii) Shall have proved a satisfactory period of service within 05 years immediately preceding

to the date of promotion.

(iv) Shall have passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination on due date.

10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion

When officers who have satisfied the required qualifications make a request to the Secretary forpromotion to Grade I by using the form given in Annex 08, the promotion shall be made to beeffective from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications, after verifying thesequalifications by the Secretary.

9AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

10.3 Promotion to Supra Grade

10.3.1 Promotion on the Limited Competitive Examination

10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be satisfied

(a) (i) Shall be an officer of Grade I in Service

or

(ii) Shall be an officer in Grade II who has completed at least an active and satisfactory service

period of not less than eight (08) years

or

(iii) Shall be an officer in Grade II of the service who has obtained a degree from a University

recognized by the University Grants Commission.

(b) Shall have completed a satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding to

the date of promotion.

10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion

Appointments to a number of vacancies of not more than 35% of the total vacancies in SupraGrade shall be made on the results of a limited competitive examination. The candidates whohave satisfied the qualifications shall be appointed after verifying their qualifications by aninterview board appointed by the Public Service Commission. The interview shall strictly be forexamination of the certificates by which the qualifications of the candidates are proved and nomarks shall be allocated in this regard. (Syllabus and the marking scheme is given in Annex 09).

10.3.2 Promotion on Merit

10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be satisfied

(i) Shall be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of at least

five (05) years in Grade I as at prescribed date.

(ii) Shall have completed satisfactory service period of five (05) years immediately preceding

to the date of promotion.

10.3.2.2 Method of Promotion

Appointments equivalent to 65% of the total vacancies in Supra Grade shall be made on merit.For this purpose, priority shall be determined on the order of the aggregate of marks of anAptitude Test conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the PublicService Commission and marks allocated on the basis of seniority and experience by a boardappointed by the Commission. Candidates shall appear for an interview held by a board appointedby the Commission for verification of qualifications. No marks shall be allocated at that interview.(Annex 10)

Note -

The date of promotion of the officers, who are unable to pass the efficiency bar on due datefor the purpose of promotion under average performance, shall be delayed by a period similar tothe period taken by the officer for passing the same.

5 — PG 2330

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201510A

11. Appointment to posts : Not applicable

12. Conditions applicable to the service :

12.1 Conditions for confirmation in service

12.1.1 An officer appointed to Grade III of service by an open competitive examination shall be subjected to a

probation period of three years. If the Head of the Institution is satisfied himself to the effect that theofficer has passed the first efficiency bar examination conducted by the Commissioner General ofExaminations and that the work, conduct and attendance of the officer are satisfactory, it shall beinformed to the Secretary by the end of the three years and thereafter the appointment of the officershall be confirmed if the Commission is satisfied in this regard.

12.1.2 An officer recruited to Grade III of the service by the limited competitive examination shall be subjected

to an acting period of one year from the date of appointment. If the Head of the Institution is satisfiedthat the officer’s work, conduct and attendance during the period of acting are satisfactory andsubsequent to reporting so to the Secretary by the end of one year and if the Commission is satisfied inthis regard the appointment of the officer shall be confirmed. However, such officer shall complete firstefficiency bar within three years from the date of appointment.

12.1.3 Every appointment is given subject to the condition that the appointee should be ready to serve in any

part of the island and further to proof by a medical test that the officer is physically fit for the service inany part of the island.

13. Definitions and Interpretations

13.1 The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute on the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s

Service.

13.2 “Governor” shall mean the Governor of Western Province.

13.3 “Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Public Service Commission of Western Provincial Council.

13.4 “Chief Secretary” shall mean the Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial Council.

13.5 “Service” shall mean the Western Provincial Public Management Assistant’s Service.

13.6 “Commission” shall mean the Public Service Commission of Western Provincial Council.

13.7 “Period of Satisfactory Service” shall mean a period of service during which the officer has earned all increments

required to be earned by the officer during that period by way of performing the duty of a Public Officerefficiently and diligently and passing all efficiency bars prescribed and further satisfying all the qualificationsprescribed for the confirmation in service and no any punishable offence committed by the officer

13.8 “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaging in duties assigned to him

and drawing the salary attached to his post. However, all the periods on No Pay other than Maternity Leaveapproved by the government shall not be counted for the period of active service.

13.9 The “Gazette” shall mean the Gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

14. Absorption into Grade System :

Methodology for absorption of officers serving at present to new grade system is given in Annex 11.

11AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

15. Interim Provisions :

1. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade III

(i) Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service minute

implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted from one orseveral subjects of the examination i.e. (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems and (3) Computer Test shallbe exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination, on the basis of subject by subject, prescribedby this service minute for the officers in Grade III.

2. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II

(i) Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar prescribed for officers in Grade II in the service minute

implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been exempted from one or bothsubjects of the examination i.e. (I) Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems Used in Government Offices shallbe exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination, on the basis of subject by subject, prescribedby this service minute for the officers in Grade II.

(ii) Officers who have been promoted to Grade II before the effective date of this service minute shall pass the

efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade II before the lapse of six years (06) from the date of promotionto Grade II.

3. Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade I

(i) Officers who have earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory service of five

years after promotion to Grade I before the implementation of this service minute shall be exempted from therequirement of passing the efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade I under this service minute

(ii) A period of concession of five years from the effective date of this service minute shall be given to the

officers, who have not earned five salary increments on completion of an active and satisfactory period of fiveyears from the date of promotion to Grade I, eventhough they have been promoted to Grade I before theimplementation of this service minute, to pass the relevant efficiency bar examination prescribed for Grade Iunder this service minute.

16. Matters not provided for in this Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission of Western

Province.

Annex 01

SerialInstitutionPositionApprovedNo.Cadre

1.Chief Secretary’s Office of the Western ProvinceAdministrative Officer042.Governor’ Secretariat of the Western ProvinceAdministrative Officer013.Western Province Provincial Public Service CommissionAdministrative Officer014.Council Secretariat of the Western ProvinceAdministrative Officer015.Department of Provincial Revenue of the WesternAdministrative Officer01Province6.Western Provincial Department of RegistrationAdministrative Officer017.Ministry of Education, Local Government, Land,Administrative Officer01Manpower and Employment and Information of theWestern Province

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201512A

8.Western Provincial Department of Local GovernmentAdministrative Officer019.Western Provincial Department of EducationAdministrative Officer0110.Zonal Education Office NegomboAdministrative Officer0111.Zonal Education Office MinuwangodaAdministrative Officer0112.Zonal Education Office GampahaAdministrative Officer0113.Zonal Education Office KelaniyaAdministrative Officer0114.Zonal Education Office ColomboAdministrative Officer0115.Zonal Education Office JayawardhanapuraAdministrative Officer0116.Zonal Education Office PiliyandalaAdministrative Officer0117.Zonal Education Office HomagamaAdministrative Officer0118.Zonal Education Office KalutaraAdministrative Officer0119.Zonal Education Office HoranaAdministrative Officer0120.Zonal Education Office MathugamaAdministrative Officer0121.Western Provincial Department of Land CommissionerAdministrative Officer0122.Ministry of Agriculture, Agrarian Development, MinorAdministrative Officer01Irrigation, Industry, Environmental Affairs and Culturaland Arts Affairs of the Western Province23.Western Provincial Department of IrrigationAdministrative Officer0124.Western Provincial Department of AgricultureAdministrative Officer0125.Western Provincial Department of IndustriesAdministrative Officer0126.Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation andAdministrative Officer01Child Care Services and Council Affairs of the WesternProvince27.Western Provincial Department of HealthAdministrative Officer1428.Western Provincial Department of AyurvedaAdministrative Officer0129.Provincial Department of Probation & Child CareAdministrative Officer01Services30.Ministry of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,Administrative Officer01Women’s Affairs, Food Supplies and Distribution,Co-operative Development, Domestic EconomicPromotion, Fisheries, Rural Development, Tourism,Investment Promotion Coordination and AnimalProduction and Development of the Western Province31.Western Provincial Department of Co-operativesAdministrative Officer0132.Western Provincial Co-operative Employees’Administrative Officer01Commission33.Western Provincial Department of Motor TrafficAdministrative Officer0134.Western Provincial Department of Animal ProductionAdministrative Officer01and Health35.Ministry of Electricity and Power, Provincial Roads,Administrative Officer01Housing and Construction, Water Supply and Drainage,Social Welfare, Urban and Estate Infrastructure Facilitiesof the Western Province

SerialInstitutionPositionApprovedNo.Cadre

13AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

36.Western Provincial Department of Social ServicesAdministrative Officer0137.Colombo Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer40

38.Colombo Municipal Council (Department of CentralStore Officer01Procurement)

39.Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer0540.Moratuwa Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer04

41.Sri Jayawardhanapura Kotte Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer0342.Gampaha Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer01

43.Negombo Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer0244.Kaduwela Municipal CouncilAdministrative Officer04

45.Boralesgamuwa Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0146.Kesbewa Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

47.Kolonnawa Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0148.Maharagama Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

49.Seethawakapura Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0150.Ja-Ela Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

51.Katunayaka-Seeduwa Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0152.Minuwangoda Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

53.Peliyagoda Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0154.Wattala -Mabola Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

55.Beruwala Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0156.Horana Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

57.Kalutara Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer0158.Panadura Urban CouncilAdministrative Officer01

59.Homagama Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0160.Kotikawaththa Mulleriyawa Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

61.Seethawaka Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0162.Attanagalla Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

63.Biyagama Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0164.Divulapitiya Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

65.Dompe Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0166.Gampaha Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

67.Ja-Ela Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0168.Katana Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

69.Kelaniya Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0170.Mahara Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

71.Minuwangoda Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0172.Meerigama Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

73.Wattala Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0174.Agalawaththa Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

SerialInstitutionPositionApprovedNo.Cadre

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201514A

75.Bandaragama Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0176.Beruwala Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

77.Bulathsinhala Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0178.Dodangoda Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

79.Horana Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0180.Kalutara Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

81.Madurawala Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0182.Mathugama Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

83.Palindanuwara Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary0184.Panadura Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

85.Walallawita Pradeshiya SabhaSecretary01

Annex 02

1. Name of the Examination : Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Western Provincial

Public Management Assistants’ Service

2. Particulars of the Examination :

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksCut Off Marks

(1) Language Proficiency2 1/2 hours10040

(2) Aptitude1 hour10040

Marks will be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates arerequired to obtain an aggregate of at least fifty percent (50%) of the total marks of the examination. Appointmentsshall be strictly made in the order of the marks secured depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filledon the results of the competitive examination.

3. Authority for conducting the examination :

The Commissioner General of Examinations

4. Time frame of the Examination :

5. Syllabus of the Examination :

Name of the QuestionSyllabusPaper

1. Language ProficiencyThe question paper shall consist of subject related questions designedtotest the candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings, languageand essay, drafting a given letter, making graph based on the given data,summarizing passages, expressing the idea of several given sentences in onesentence and use of simple grammar.

2. AptitudeThis paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test thecandidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and general intelligence

(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)

SerialInstitutionPositionApprovedNo.Cadre

15AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

Annex 03

1. Name of the Examination : Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Western Provincial

Public Management Assistants’ Service

2. Particulars of the Examination

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksCut Off Marks

(l) Language Proficiency and Aptitude Test2 1/2 hours10040of Management Assistants’ Service

(2) Aptitude1 hour10040

Marks shall be deducted in every question paper for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes. Candidates shall sitthis examination only in one language they prefer. Candidates are required to obtain an aggregate of at least fiftypercent (50%) of the total marks of the examination. Appointments shall strictly be made in the order of the merit andthe number of vacancies.

3. Authority for conducting the examination:

The Commissioner General of Examinations

4. Time frame of the Examination :

5. Syllabus of the Examination :

Name of the QuestionSyllabus Paper

The question paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to testthe candidate’s ability of expression, comprehension, spellings, language andessay, drafting a letter on given information, summarizing passages, expressingthe idea of several given sentences in one sentence, making graphs and tablesbased on the given data, and subject related questions to test use of simplegrammar, questions designed to test the knowledge of the candidate on basicrules and regulations applied in taking action regarding the documents of anoffice and Management Assistant’s knowledge on duties such as action to betaken on a letter containing matters for which such officer shall be attended toand further questions to test candidate’s knowledge on the items used in theoffice such as call-up diary, voucher, moving registers, attendance registers,day stamp, official stamp and mail bag and their use.

2. AptitudeThis paper shall consist of subject related questions designed to test thecandidates’ skill at numbers, power of critical reasoning and general intelligence

(These papers shall be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)

1. Language Proficiency and

Aptitude Test ofManagement Assistants’Service

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201516A

Annex 04

1. Name of the Examination: Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade III of Western Provincial Public

Management Assistants’ Service

2. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within three years from the date of appointment)

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksCut Off Marks

(1) Office Systems2 hours10040

(2) Accounting Systems2 hours10040

(3) Computer Test1 1/2 hours10040

Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter therelevant service or in an official language.

Officers may sit separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall scoreat least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.

Note- Officers who have obtained Computer Driving License awarded by National Apprentice and Technical Training

Authority or a degree in Computer Science recognized by the University Grants Commission or Proficiency Levelat NVQ 4 or above from an institution approved by the Tertiary Education and Vocational Education Commissionshall be exempted from the above computer test.

3. Authority for conducting the Examination:

The Commissioner General of Examinations

4. Time frame of the Examination : shall be held twice in every year

5. Syllabus of the Examination :

Name of the QuestionSyllabus Paper

1. Office SystemsThis paper shall be designed to test the candidate’s basic knowledge onoffice systems adopted in government offices and practical use of thatknowledge, proper understanding of official documents and the ability ofpresenting the ideas/ observations in clear and brief minutes and the ability ofdrafting a letter according to an order given to the officer.

2. Accounting SystemsIt is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Basic Accounts and AccountingSystems adopted in government offices, functions of books and records oncontrolling finances.

3. Computer Test(I) Basic concepts of Information Technology

(II) Windows Operating System

(III) Folder Management

17AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

(IV) Word Processing

Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing texts, Aligning text, fonts andattributes, indenting, paragraphs, sub paragraphs, change of line spacing,Tab setting, finding and replacing text, spelling and grammar, thesaurus,working with columns, page setup, printing documents, creating tables,sorting texts, file management, mail merging, working with macros

(V) Spreadsheets

Basic skills, formatting, editing, columns and ranges, insertion anddeletion, sorting, data, crteating charts, printing, @ function workingwith macros, file-management

(VI) Internet and Email

Introduction to internet, basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail,responding to mails, working with attachments , creating and usingnicknames to identify addresses, composing messages

For full particulars about the syllabus and method of applying candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notificationsrelated to the internal circular published by the Secretary to the Commission from time to time.

Annex 05

1. Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade II of Western Provincial Public

Management Assistants’ Service.

2. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within three years from the date of promotion to Grade II)

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksCut Off Marks

(1) Office Systems and Procedure2 hours10040

(2) Accounting systems adopted2 hours10040in the government offices

Candidates shall answer the question papers in the language medium in which they sat the examination to enter therelevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who entered the service without a CompetitiveExamination, both papers shall be answered in the language medium of their education or in an official language.

Officers may sit separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall secureat least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.

3. Authority for conducting the examination :

The Commissioner General of Examinations

4. Time frame of the Examination : shall be held twice in every year

Name of the QuestionSyllabus Paper

Syllabus of the Examination (contd.)

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201518A

5. Syllabus of the Examination :

Name of the QuestionSyllabus Paper

(1) Office Systems andIt is expected to test the candidate’s knowledge of office systems practicedProcedurein government offices and his/ her ability of practical application of theknowledge.

(2) Accounting SystemsIt is expected to test candidate’s knowledge in Accounting Systems practicedpracticed inin government offices, books and records on controlling Accounts and ordersgovernment officesand instructions of the Treasury issued in relation to such and his / her abilityof practical application of the knowledge.

For full particulars about the syllabus and method of applying candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notificationsrelated to the internal circular published by the Secretary to the Commission from time to time.

Annex 06

1. Name of the Examination : Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade I of Western Provincial Public

Management Assistants’ Service

2. Particulars of the Examination (Shall pass within five years from the date of promotion to Grade I)

QuestionDurationTotalCutOffPaperMarksMarks

(1) Establishment Procedure1 1/2 hours10040

and Procedural Rules(2) Public Finance1 1/2 hours10040

Management(3) Current Trends1 hour10040

Written test shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English Medium. Candidates shall answer three question papers inthe language medium in which they sat the examination to enter the relevant service or in an official language. Incase of candidates who entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers shall be answered in thelanguage medium of their education or in an official language.

Officers may sit separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, they shall secureat least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.

3. Authority for conducting the examination:

The Commissioner General of Examinations

4. Time frame of the Examination : shall be held twice in every year

19AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

5. Syllabus of the Examination:

Name of the QuestionSyllabus Paper

(1) Establishment ProcedureThis paper shall consist of a part containing questions to test the knowledgeof Office Systems adopted in government offices covering the areas offundamentals of office systems, their importance, written communication,documentation and compiling formats and to test the proficiency of theexperience gained on office activities and another part containing of questionsto test the knowledge .on matters contained in Volume I and II of theEstablishments Code and volume I of the procedural rules of Public ServiceCommission.

(2) Public Finance ManagementIt is expected to test the Candidates’ awareness and knowledge on the subjectsIn government departments, officesand ministries such as Financial Control,Custody of public money, revenue and payment, budget estimates, supplyand services (basic knowledge on board of survey and store keeping, financialregulations and auditing and basic banking practice)

(3) Current trendsThis paper shall consist of a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledgeon current, local and international events and a partdesigned to test thecandidates’ knowledge on new trends on office management, service deliveryof public sector and good governance.

For full particulars about the syllabus and method of applying candidates shall refer to the Gazette Notificationsrelated to the internal circular published by the Secretary to the Commission from time to time.

Annex 07

Specimen Application for promotion of the officers in Grade III of the Western Provincial Public Management

Assistants’ Service to Grade II on average performance

1. Name with initials: Mr/Mrs/Miss2. Names denoted by the initials:3. Date of Birth :4. National Identity Card No :5. Date of entry to the service:6. Number of the appointment letter to Grade III :7. Date on which the appointment was confirmed:8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination and the index number:9. Date on which the 10 years of service completed:10. Office serving at present:

I hereby request to grant me the promotion to Grade II of Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service from...................................................

..................................................Date :Applicant’s Signature..

and Procedural Rules

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201520A

Secretary, Western Provincial Public Service Commission

I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss............................................................................ is serving at this office and;

1. Has completed an active period of 10 years to the date of ........................ ;

2. Has earned 10 salary increments ;

3. Has proved performance at the level of satisfactory or above during the service of 10 years as per the approved

performance appraisal procedure immediately preceding the date of promotion;

4. The number of half payor no pay leave of the officer is ....................... during that time period he/she has not

obtained half payor no pay leave for the period of 10 years ;

5. Has not been subjected to any punishment (except warnings) during the period concerned ;

6. No disciplinary action is proceeding against the officer and do not intend to take any disciplinary action in the

future;

7. Has confirmed in the post from ..................................... ;

8. Has passed the Efficiency Bar Examination of Grade III ;

I hereby recommend this officer to be promoted to Grade II with effect from ................................................. since he/she has completed a satisfactory service of five years.

Signature of the Head of the Institution Name:Designation:Official stamp:Date : ...............................

Note : - In case the officer has not satisfied the qualification from 1-8, please mention them.

Annex 08

Specimen Application for Promotion of Officers in Grade II of Western Provincial Public Management Assistants’

Service to Grade I on Average Performance

Part I — (Should be completed by the officer)

1. (a) Name with initials :

(b) Names denoted by the initials :(c) Previous names : (in the event ofa change of name only):2. Date of birth :3. National Identity Card No. :4. Date of the first appointment to the service:5. Number of the letter of appointment to Grade II :6. Date of promotion to Grade II of the Service :7. Present place of work and its address :8. Date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination :

.................................................................... I,hereby certify that all information furnished by me above, are true andcorrect. I am fully aware that if the particulars furnished by me are found to be incorrect, my claim for promotion to Grade I interms of this Minute is liable to be disregarded and disciplinary action is liable to be taken against me.

..................................................Date : ...............................Applicant’s Signature.

21AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

Part II

Certificate of the Secretary to the Ministry / Head of the Department

Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ..........................................................................................................

1. Date of completion of 10 years in Grade II of Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service:

2. Shall have earned all the salary increments during the 10 years,

3. Shall have proved a performance at average level or above during the 10 years immediately preceding the date of

promotion according to the approved performance evaluation procedure,

4. (i) Date of passing the efficiency bar examination:

Accounting systemsOffice systems

Date of the examination...................................................................

Index number...................................................................

(ii) The officer has/ has not fulfilled the requirement of passing the second efficiency bar examination.

If the requirement has been fulfilled, mention the reference number and date of the letter:

5. (i) If no pay / half pay leave has been taken, the period / number of days:

(From the date of appointment! promotion to Grade II of Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service)

(ii) If any punishment / punishments (other than warning) have been imposed, give a brief account:

(Indicate the reference number)

6. If the officer has been released for service at a Corporation or other Statutory Board, period of such service:

I endorse that as at ............................ the officer has completed a period of 5 years of active service in Grade II ofthe service, that he has a period of satisfactory service, that all the foregoing particulars are correct according to thepersonal file and that helshe has fulfilled all qualifications for promotion to Grade I of the service.

Signature of the Head of the Institution Name:

Designation:

(Official Stamp)

Date : ................................

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201522A

Annex 09

Regulations and recommendation paper for promotion to Supra Grade of Western Provincial Public Management Assistants’Service

Limited Competitive Examination

01. Particulars of the Examination

Question paperDurationTotal Marks

(1) Office Management2 hours100

(2) Office Systems2 hours100(3) Establishment procedure and procedural rules2 hours100

(4) Public finance management2 hours100(5) General paper1 1/2 hours100

02. Authority for conducting the examination:

The Commissioner General of examinations

03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies

04. Syllabus of the examination :

Name of the question paperSyllabus

(1) Office ManagementOrganizational structure, Principles of organization, taskanalysis and task evaluation, leadership, supervisionand the ability to make decisions, communication, publicrelations, coordination and problem solving

(2) Office systemsPrinciples on office systems, office procedures,documents and filing, planning and handling of forms,office correspondents, control over the utilization ofoffice equipment, office layout and environment, jobdescription, work and systems study, measurement ofwork and office manual

(3) Establishment procedure and procedural rulesProcedures to be followed when making recruitmentsto public service, establishment activities of publicofficers, Maintaininga personal file, vesting ofpowers for the tasks such as appointments, transfers,promotions and termination of service of publicservants, welfare of public servants, privileges entitledto public officers, general knowledge of the regulationsand circulars that have been already issued by thegovernment.

23AIV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.2015

(4) Public Finance ManagementResponsibilities of an accounting officer and annualestimates, financial control, delegation of responsibilitieson financial matters, receipt of money, accounting andacceptance of money, payments, custody of publicmoney, imprest and bank account, supplies and services,tender procedures, board of surveys, audit queries,ledgers and summaries of income and expenditure ofgovernment offices, bank reconciliations, books onfinancial management, general knowledge of theregulations and circulars issued on utilization of PublicFinance so far by the government.

(5) General PaperThe nature of public administration, structure of publicadministration, public policies and new public reforms,fundamental rights, Human rights, Human RightsCommission, Ombudsman, Public Petition Committee ofthe Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, propermaintenance of physical environment of the office andwelfare activities of the staff, recognition of civil andofficial status in the aspect of Social Science and theduties of public officers towards recipients.

Annex 10

Competitive Examination for Promotion to Supra Grade of Western Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service onMerit

01. Particulars of the Examination

Question paperDurationTotal Marks

(1) Aptitude and case study1 1/2 hours100

(2) Seniority60

(3) Experience40

02. Authority for conducting the examination:

The Commissioner General of examinations

03. Time frame of the examination : Shall be decided on the existing vacancies

Name of the question paperSyllabus

(contd.)

IV (w) fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'19PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.01.201524A

04. Syllabus of the examination :

Name of the question paperSyllabus

(1) Aptitude and case studyThis question paper shall consist of two parts.

Part I

All the questions shall be related to office administration andquestions shall be given on general knowledge, ability of decisionmaking, critical reasoning and problems related to officeadministration.

Part II

Candidates shall have to answer questions on a case study regardingoffice administration. The question paper shall be prepared withone or several paragraphs.

(2) SeniorityWhen marks are allocated for seniority, six marks shall be allocatedfor each active and satisfactory period of one year completed afterthe completion of five years in active and satisfactory service inGrade I subjected to a maximum of 60 marks. For this purpose threemarks shall be allocated for a period of more than six months butless than one year. However, marks shall not be allocated for aperiod less than six months.

(3) ExperienceMaximum of 40 marks shall be given for a Supervising Officer inGrade I of the service by allocating 02 marks per year.

Annex 11

Absorption of those who are in service (shall be applicable for those who are in service on due date)

,All the officers who are serving in posts of Class III, II, I and Supra Class of Public Management Assistants’ Serviceon due date shall be absorbed under the new Service Minute in the following manner.

(a) Officers who are in Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in

to Grade III under the new Service Minute

(b) Officers who are in Class II of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in

to Grade II under the new Service Minute

(c) Officers who are in Class I of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed in

to Grade I under the new Service Minute

(d) Officers who are in Supra Grade of Public Management Assistants’ Service on prescribed date shall be absorbed

in to Supra Grade under the new Service Minute

(e) The present salary of the officers or the increment date shall not be changed due to this absorption.

02 - 20

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.