==== BLOCKS ==== 

PART 1: SECTION (1) - GENERAL

PILGRIMAGES ORDINANCE

REGULATIONS made by the Minster of Home Affairs in terms of section 2 of Pilgimages Ordinance. (Chap. 175).

WAJIRA ABEWARDHANA,

Minister of Home Affairs.

Ministry of Home Affairs,Independence Square,Colombo 07,31st December, 2017.

REGULATIONS

01. These regulations may be cited as the regulation of Lenten Season annually held in Calvary Shrine, (St. Anne's

Church), Hiniduma, Galle.

02. In these regulations

" Camp area" means the area described in the schedule." District Secretary/Government Agent" means the Government Agent of Galle administrative district and it alsoincludes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4." Medical Officer" means the Health Midical officer in charge of the camp area." Pilgrim" means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose." Police Officer" includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area." Public Health Inspector" means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.

wxl 2057$33 - 2018 fmnrjdß ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'02'09

No. 2057/ 33 – FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 09, 2018

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

EXTRAORDINARY

w;s úfYI

Government Notifications

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www. documents.gov.lk

1A - G 27084 - 12 (02/2018)

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'092 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.02.2018

3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages Season annually held in Calvary Shrine (St. Anne's Church), Hiniduma,

Galle belonged to the two Grama Niladhari Divisions namely: Hiniduma South and Malhathava in the DivisionalSecretariat Division, Thawalama withing the Administrative District of Galle.

4. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writing to exercise

any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.

5. I. The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or from or

within the camp area.

II. No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the instructionsissued to such police officer by the District Secretary/Government Agent for the exercise of powers vested in himunder the Para (1) of this regulation.

6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the District

Secrtary/Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are brought and cattle aredriven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.

7. (1) The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places inside the

camp area.

(a)Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.(b)Places for leaving carts and cattle.(c)Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.(d)Place to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.(e)Places for begging and solicitation for charity.(f)Places for displaying certain items for sale.(g)Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes.(h)Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing.(i)Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places providingsuch facilities.(j)Places for other purposes the District Secretary/Government Agent may deem necessary.

(2)It the District Secretary/Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any places reserved or provided for

certain purpose under Para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board stating the purposefor which the place is reserved.

(3)(I) In case of any place is reserved of provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place shall strictly be used forsuch purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.

8. If the District Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to any

tank, wells,water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention of diseases,theDistrict Secretary/Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so.

9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make a new

addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area, reserved orprovided for certain purpose under rgulation 7, except on a permit issued by the District Secretary/Government Agentfor the relevant purpose and in accordnace with the conditions stipulated in such permit.

(2)If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make a new additionto existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery of a written noticeto that person, it is lawful for the District Secretay/Government Agent to order to remove or demolish such hut or

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'093 APART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.02.2018

building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may be.(3)Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act incompliance

with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a doubt arises as to who isthe actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent tocause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction or a new addition made to theexisting building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agentto make arrangements to enter to any land or premises together with labourers, equipment.

10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the use

of pilgrims.

11. No one shall; contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area.

12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the

District Secretary/Government Agent for this purpose.

13. (1)District Seretary/Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cooked meals and

beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.

(2)No one shall disobey any fawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a Pulbic Health Inspector in accordance

with instructions given by District Secretary/Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated to him underPara (I) of this regulation.

14. (1)Where any food or drink displayed or placed for a sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp area is

found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District Secretary/Government Agent or theMedical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not suitable for humanconsumption.

(2)No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human

Consumption under Para (I) of this regulation.

(3)It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and destroy any

food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the regulation.

15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place in

the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained on alicense issued by the District Secretary/Government Agent and in accordance with conditions stipulated there in.Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of them Medical officer or any officer authorized bysuch medical officer.

16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, enating houses and Dansal and all furniture and equipment in

such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.

17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for slale or distribution in the camp area shall be kept in show

case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public HealthInspector.

18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or easte disposed in cooking or other wastes shall be left

at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as provided inregulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place within the camp areaor on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of baker, sweet stall, place where sweetsare made or eating house or 'Dansal' the license holder of such place shall be deemed to have violated provisions in thisregulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder proves that all necessary precautions have been takenand action has been taken with proper care to prevent the commission of such offence.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'094 A

PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.02.2018

19 All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions used

for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage container with a capacityof 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden metal or plastic lid unless it is usedto dump or remove garbage.

20. (1) If the District Secrtary/Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made,

eating house, Dansal or business place has been established or maintained in violation of regulations 16, 17,18 or19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made,eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area or cancel any license with immediate effect ifany license has been issued for such place.

(2)Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or

business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District Seretary/Government Agentunder chapter (1) of this section.

21. No person suffering from any infections disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.

22. (1)It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent to orde the pilgrims to leave the camp area and for the

District Secrtary/Government Agent to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport to be used for leavingwhen on epidemic is spreading in such area.

(2)No person shall act against any legal order given by the District Secrtary/Government Agent under Para (I) of this

section.

23. Every person suffring from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person is

knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease, every suchperson shall report it to the Midical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.

24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within the camp area

shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter suchbakery, place were sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale or manufacture of anymaterial or food or drink.

25. A license hoder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place here sweets are made, eating house of Dansal or an owner or chief

occupant of any lodge or pilgrims, rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease or contagiousdisease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal lodge orpilgrims' rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagiousdisease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it to the Medical Officer orthe Pulbic health Officer or any Police Officer immediately.

26. No person shall donate or distribute anyting for charity either by cah or by any other means within the camp area except

in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulatin 7.

27. No person shall light fire works or a use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission from the District

Secretary/Government Agent.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'02'095 APART I: SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.02.2018

28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or 10.

29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any Police

Officer to,

(a)Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from among these

regulations and,(b)To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or a nameboard under rgulation 7.

30. It shall be lawful for the District Secrtary/Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers that the

cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.

(a)Any permission given uder regulation 6 or regulation 27.(b)Permit issued under regulation 9.(c)Any license issued under regulation 15.

SCHEDULE I

The plot of land, in which the Calvary Shrine, Hiniduma, Galle is located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Hiniduma-Southof the Divisional Secretariat Division, Thawalama Within th Administative District, Galle.

Boundaries of aforesaid lands are as follows:

North - Jayanthi road, Hiniduma, Lands belonged to T. G. Wilbort, T. G. Klara, and T. G. Magrette.South - St. Anne's College, Hiniduma and the Land belonged to Mr. Sarath Withanachchi.East - St. Anne's Estate, Hiniduma.West - Udugama - Dellawa Main road.

SCHEDULE II

The plot of land, in which the Calvary Hill is located in the Grama Niladhari Division of Malhathava of the DivisionalSecretariat Division, Thawalama Within th Administative District, Galle.

Boundaries of aforesaid lands are as follows:

North - The lands belonged to N. H. Chandralatha, Jeri Wasudeva, Sarath Nanda, Subhani Karunarathna and

Peminda Rangana.South - The lands belonged to Gunasena Wileg, H. A. Victor, Piyadasa Jayawardena, U. G. Pradeep Lakmal, A. W.

Sithari Wickramasri Weerawardhana and Chaminda Sammpath Senanayake.East - Pongiliya Road.West - The lands belonged to Siril Edirisinghe, Sarath Vithanage, Dharmasiri Wijenayake, H. G. Elbort, Jayasekara

Wijeywickrama Somadas and H. L. Samantha.

02-849

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.