==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI ෙකාටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2026.01.13PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2026

ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ ගැසŸ පƴය

අƯ ɪෙශෂThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

අංක 2471/33 – 2026 ජනවාɜ මස 13 වැǧ අඟහɞවාදා – 2026.01.13

No. 2471/33 – TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 2026

(Published by Authority)

PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notiﬁcations

ANIMAL DISEASES ACT, No. 59 oF 1992

Order under Section 5 and Consequential Arrangements

AFRICAN Swine Fever (ASF) is a specified and highly contagious disease as defined in the First Schedule of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992, and the Orders made thereunder. It is a disease that may occur in any Divisional Secretary’s Division in Sri Lanka.

I, Kahanda Kanaththage Sarath, Director General of Animal Production and Health, by virtue of the powers vested in me under the above Act, do hereby declare by this Order that:

1. All Districts in Sri. Lanka are hereby declared as susceptible areas for African Swine Fever (ASF) for the purposes and within the meaning of the Animal Diseases Act.

1. The pig (Sus scrofa) is the susceptible species for this disease; and

2. This Order shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette and, unless earlier revoked or further extended under Section 5(3) of the Act, shall remain in effect for a period of three months from the date of such publication.

1A – G 046107– 13 (01/2026)

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I ෙකාටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2026.01.13

PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2026 2A

While this Order remains in force, I, the Director General of Animal Production and Health, hereby prohibit the following activities within or in relation to the susceptible areas in order to prevent the spread, control, and containment of African Swine Fever (ASF):

I. Under Section 5(4) of the Animal Diseases Act, the removal, transportation, driving, or movement of pigs, pork, pork products, or risk material within, to, or from the infected or susceptible area without a permit issued by the Divisional Government Veterinary Surgeon of the respective Division, as per Form VII of the regulations published in Gazette No. 1108/23 dated December 03, 1999.

II. The slaughter of pigs for meat purposes without a transport permit issued as per the above provisions.

III. Sale, display for sale, offering for sale, storage, supply, distribution, or further processing of pigs, pork, pork products, or infected materials without a permit issued by an Authorized Officer nominated in this Order.

IV. Without complying with the guidelines issued by the Department of Animal Production and Health, dispose of any carcass, part thereof, or contaminated material by placing it in any water body or leaving it in any location in a manner that may allow other animals to access, consume, or transport such materials to other places.

V. Slaughtering, storings or processing in any slaughterhouse, storage facility, or meat processing center that is not approved by an Authorized Officer nominated in this Order.

VI. Operating a pig farm without the farm registration certificate , in the standard format prescribed by the Director General and issued by the Government Veterinary Surgeon of the area.

3. Animals in non-infected breeder, fattener, or commercial farms may be bred, sold, slaughtered, or processed subject to the following conditions:

I. The breeder farms must be registered with the Animal Breeding Division of the Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya.

II. For the breeding and selling of live animals, a health certificate shall be obtained following an examination conducted in the manner prescribed by the Director General.

III. Animals intended for slaughter, fattening, or breeding must be confirmed negative for African Swine Fever (ASF) by an authorized officer in writing.

IV. A copy of the health certificate and the test report of purchased, transported, or slaughtered animals must be retained at the respective farm or slaughterhouse. 4. Admitting animals to affected farms I. Before restocking, the farm must obtain a certificate from the range Veterinary Surgeon certifying that the premises have been properly disinfected and are in compliance with the prescribed biosecurity measures.

5. I hereby authorize the following officers to act as authorized officers under Section 3(3) of the said Act for the purpose of preventing the commission of acts prohibited by Section 2(1) of this Order and to take legal action against those who engage in such acts, and to exercise the powers specified in Section 13 of the said Act for that purpose.:

1. Director-Animal Health, Department of Animal Production and Health

2. Director-Wildlife Health, Department of Wildlife and Conservation

3. Chief Municipal Veterinary Surgeon-Municipal Councils

4. The Provincial Directors of Animal Production and Health of each Province

3AI ෙකාටස: (I) ෙඡදය – ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය – 2026.01.13PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.01.2026

5. Subject Matter Specialist of each Province

6. The Deputy Director - Animal Health, Department of Animal Production and Health

7. The Deputy Directors of Animal Production and Health in charge of each District and District Veterinary Surgeons

8. The Veterinary Investigation Officers of each District

9. The Government Veterinary Surgeons of every Division and Government Veterinarians reporting to him/her

10. All Municipal Veterinary Surgeons

11. All Wildlife Veterinary Surgeons in the Department of Wildlife Conservation

12. All Police Officers of the Sri Lanka Police

Kൺඁൺඇൽൺ Kൺඇൺඍඁඍඁൺ඀ൾ Sൺඋൺඍඁ, Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health.

Department of Animal Production and Health, P.O. Box 13, Gatambe,Peradeniya,03rd January 2026.

EOG 01-0154

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.