==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20181A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2061$21 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'03'06No. 2061/21 - TUESDAY MARCH 06, 2018

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

CF 1/64

THE PUBLIC SECURITY ORDINANCE (Chapter 40)

REGULATIONS made by the President under Section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).

MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,President.

Colombo,06th March 2018.

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A - G22804 — 367 (03/2018)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20182A

Regulations

1.These regulations may be cited as the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and Powers)Regulations, No.1 of 2018.

PART I

GENERAL

2. (1) In any emergency regulation, unless any other definition is expressly provided therein orunless it is otherwise expressly provided therein or the context otherwise requires:-

"Attorney-General" in relation to any emergency regulation, includes the Solicitor-General,Senior Additional Solicitor General, Additional Solicitor General, Senior Deputy Solicitor General,and Deputy Solicitor General, Senior State Counsel, State Counsel or any Attorney-at-Lawauthorized by the Attorney General in that behalf for the purpose of such regulation;

"competent authority" in relation to any emergency regulation means, unless otherwise providedfor in such regulation, any person appointed by name, or by office by the President to be acompetent authority for the purpose of such regulation;

"emergency regulation" means any of these regulations or any other regulation made under thePublic Security Ordinance;

"essential service" means any service which is of public utility or essential for national security orpreservation of public order or to the life of the community and includes any Department ofGovernment or branch thereof;

"Inspector General of Police" shall include any Senior Deputy Inspector-General and DeputyInspector-General of Police;

"land "includes land covered with water and parts of houses or buildings;

"Police Officer" means a member of any Police Force established under the Police Ordinance;

"public officer" shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution;

"Sri Lanka" includes the territorial waters and territorial airspace thereof.

(2) The Interpretation Ordinance shall apply to the interpretation of an emergency regulation andof any orders and rules made thereunder, as it applies to the interpretation of an Act or Ordinance or Law.

(3) Any reference in any document or any other written law to any emergency regulation shall,unless the contrary intention appears, be construed as a reference to that regulation, as amended by anysubsequent regulation made under the Public Security Ordinance.

(4) Where any emergency regulation requires or enables a period to be specified in any directionor order made under such regulation and such direction or order does not specify any such period, suchperiod shall be deemed to be the period during which the regulations under which such direction or orderis given or made remains in force.

Short title

Interpretation

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20183A

3. Save as otherwise expressly provided, the powers conferred by any emergency regulation shall inaddition to, and not in derogation of any other rights or powers which by law are vested in or conferredon the President or any other authority or person.

4. Any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on the President by any emergency regulationmay be exercised, performed or discharged by any Minister who is authorized in that behalf by thePresident.

5. (1) The President may appoint, by name or by office, any person as Competent Authority for thepurposes of any emergency regulation made or may be made generally or specially for the whole of SriLanka or for any area or place specified in writing by which such person is appointed, and may be limitedto such of those purposes as may be specified in writing:Provided that nothing in the preceding provisionsof this paragraph shall be deemed to preclude the appointment of two or more persons to be competentauthorities for any of the purpose of any regulation or for any specified area or place. (2) Where theholder of a designated office had been appointed to be a competent authority, then, unless expressprovision is made to the contrary, the appointment shall be deemed to extend to the person for the timebeing performing the duties of the office designated.

6. Without prejudice to any special provisions contained in any emergency regulation, a notice to beserved on any person for the purpose of any emergency regulation may be served by handing over suchnotice or by sending it by post addressed to that person at his last or usual place of abode or place ofbusiness.

7. Any power conferred by any emergency regulation to make any order or rule shall be construed asincluding a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like conditions, if any, to revoke orvary the order or rule.

8. (1) The President may by order appoint any person by name or by office to be the Commissioner-General of Essential Services for the whole of Sri Lanka. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner-Generalof Essential Services to execute and coordinate all activities relating to the supply and maintenance ofessential services.

(2) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may appoint, by name or by office, suchAdditional or Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners as may be necessary for the performanceof his duties under these regulations.

(3) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may delegate to any Additional or DeputyCommissioner or Assistant Commissioner appointed under paragraph (2) any power, duty or functionconferred or imposed on, or assigned to such Commissioner-General by or under these regulations.

(4) For the purpose of the performance of duties under these regulations, the Commissioner-General of Essential Services may exercise any power conferred on any authority or officer to whom anypower under these regulations have been delegated.

(5) The Commissioner-General of Essential Service may give to –

(a)any authority or officer, to whom any power has been delegated under these regulations;and

(b)any coordinating officer appointed under these regulations,

Emergencypowers to be inaddition to otherpowers

Delegation ofpowers of thePresident to anyMinister

Appointment ofCompetentAuthority

Service of Notice

Revocation andvariation of order

Appointment ofCommissionerGeneral ofEssentialServices

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20184A

such directions as may be necessary for ensuring the maintenance of essential services, and it shall bethe duty of such authority, officer or co-ordinating officer as the case may be, to comply with every suchdirection.

9. (1) The President may by Order published in the Gazette, declare any service to be anessential service, if it appears to be so necessary for the maintenance and preservation of public orderand for the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.

(2) Any person engaged or employed in any work, in connection with a service declared to be anessential service by the President in terms of paragraph (1), who –

(a) fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of suchOrder, to attend at his place of work or employment or such other place as may from timeto time be designated by his employer or a person acting under the authority of hisemployer, or who fails or refuses without lawful excuse to work or keeps away fromwork, without working during the full period or any part of the normal working day asis required by him in accordance with the terms and conditions of his employment insuch service; or

(b) fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of suchOrder to perform such work as he may be directed by his employer or a person actingunder the authority of his employer, to perform; or

(c) being a person engaged or employed in a specified service, fails or refuses without lawfulexcuse to perform such work as he may from time to time be directed by his employer ora person acting under the authority of his employer, to perform at such time or place orwithin such periods as may be specified by such employer or such person for theperformance of such work (whether such time or place or period is within or outsidenormal working hours or on holidays) he shall, notwithstanding that he has failed orrefused to so attend or to so work in furtherance of a strike or other organized action-

(i)be deemed for all purposes to have forthwith terminated or vacated hisemployment notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law or theterms and conditions of any contract governing his employment; and

(ii)in addition, be guilty of an offence.

In this paragraph "specified service" means any essential service which is declared to be aspecified service by the President under paragraph (1) being an essential service, in which a personemployed or engaged in any work in connection with such service, may be required to work outsidenormal working hours or on holidays.

(3) Where any service is declared to be an essential service by the President, by Orderpublished in the Gazette –

(a) any person who , in any manner whatsoever –

(i)impedes, obstructs, delays or restricts the carrying on of that service;

(ii)impedes, obstructs or prevents any other persons employed in, or in connectionwith the carrying on of that service to refrain from attending at his place of work;

EssentialServices

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20185A

(iii)incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in, or in connection with thecarrying on of that service to refrain from attending at his place of work;

(iv)compels, incites, induces or encourages the establishment or maintenance of any otherservice in lieu of, or parallel with that service, being a government department or branchthereof;

(v)compels, incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in, or in connectionwith, the carrying on that service, to surrender or depart from his employment (whetheror not such other person does so surrender or depart in consequence); or

(vi)prevents any other person from offering or accepting employment in, or in connectionwith, the carrying on of that service;

(b)any person who, by any physical act or by any speech or writing incites, induces or encouragesany other person to commit an act specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph (whetheror not such other person commits in consequence any act so specified),commits an offenceand shall on conviction by the High Court be liable to imprisonment of either description fora term not more than three years.

(4) Every person who is deemed to have terminated or vacated his employment by reason of theoperation of the provisions of paragraph (2) of this regulation shall vacate any quarters provided to him,by or on behalf of the government, within three days of such termination or vacation. Any person whofails to vacate such quarters within such period commits an offence under these regulations.

In this paragraph "quarters" means any building or room or other accommodation occupied orused for the purpose of residence and includes any land or premises in which such building, room orother accommodation is situated.

(5) Where any person is convicted by any court of any offence under this regulation, then, inaddition to any other penalty that the court shall impose for such offence –

(a)all property movable or immovable, of that person shall, by virtue of such conviction, bedeemed to be forfeited to the Republic; and

(b)any alienation or other disposal of such property effected by such person after the date ofthe coming into force of these regulations shall be deemed to have been and to be, null andvoid.

(6) Where any service is declared to be an essential service, by the President, by Order publishedin the Gazette, the services of any officer, servant, employee or agent employed in or belonging to anysuch service declared to be essential may, wherever deemed to be necessary, be requisitioned by theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Defence or any officer authorized byhim in that behalf, in consultation with the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom therelevant subject has been assigned.

PART III

RIGHTS OF ENTRY, & C.

10. (1) If a competent authority is of opinion that special precautions should be taken to prevent theentry of unauthorized persons into any area, place or premises wholly or mainly occupied or used forthe maintenance of essential services, that competent authority may by order provide that no person

Prevention ofunauthorizedentry

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20186A

shall, subject to such exemptions as may be specified in the order enter or remain upon that area or placeor those premises without the permission or such authority or person as may be specified in the order.

(2) If any person, is in any area, place or premises in contravention of an order made under thisregulation, then without prejudice to any other proceeding that may be taken against him, he may beremoved there from by any police officer or any member of Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy or the SriLanka Air Force or by any other person authorized in that behalf by a competent authority.

(3) In this regulation, "Competent Authority", in relation to any essential service, means anyperson appointed by name or by office, to be a competent authority for the purpose of that service bythe President.

PART IV

SEARCH AND ARREST

11. (1) Any police officer, or any member of the Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy or the SriLanka Air Force, may search, detain for purposes of such search, or arrest without warrant, any personwho is committing or has committed or whom he has reasonable grounds for suspecting to have beenconcerned in or to have committed an offence under any of these regulations or any offence in terms ofSections 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 360, 360A, 360B, 360C and Sections 364, 365, 365A and 365B andSection 427 to 446 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), and may also search, seize, remove and detain anvehicle, vessel, article, substance or thing whatsoever used in, or in connection with, the commission ofthe office.

(2) Any person arrested by a member of the Armed Forces under paragraph (1) shall, withintwenty-four hours, be handed over to the nearest police station.

(3) Any person arrested by a Police officer shall be taken to the nearest police station.

(4) Any person conducting a search under paragraph (1) of this regulation may question anyother person present in the premises, place, vehicle or vessel searches, or the person who is searched,in regard to any matter connected with or relating to the purpose of the search.

(5) Every person who is questioned under paragraph (3) of this regulation shall furnish suchinformation as is within his knowledge in regard to the matter in respect of which he is questioned.

(6) The person residing in or in charge of any premises, place, vehicle or vessel which is to besearched under this regulation, shall, on demand of the person conducting the search allow him freeingress thereto and afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.

(7) A person conducting a search under this regulation may, in order to effect an entrance into thepremises, place, vehicle or vessel to be searched, open or break open any outer or inner door or window.

(8) Whenever it is necessary to cause a female to be searched, the search shall be made byanother female.

(9) It shall be the duty of the arresting officer causing the arrest of any person within twenty fourhours of the arrest to report the arrest made under paragraph (1), where the arresting officer is a policeofficer, to the officer in charge of a police station in the area in which the arrest was made and where thearresting officer is a member of the armed forces, to the Commanding Officer of the area within whichthe arrest is made.

Search andarrest foroffences

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20187A

(10) Where any property is seized or detained under the provisions of this regulation a personeffecting the seizure or detention shall issue a receipt in respect of such property to the person fromwhose custody such property was seized or detained.

(11) The President may, from time to time by order, prohibit the holding of public processions orpublic meetings, as may be specified in that order in any area in Sri Lanka for such period and, subjectto such exemptions as may be specified in that order.

(12) The Inspector General of Police may, in respect of any area in Sri Lanka, by order direct that,subject to such exemptions as may be specified in such order that, no person in that area shall betweensuch hours or during such period as may be specified in the order, be on any public road, railway, park,recreation ground or any other public place, except under the authority of a written permit granted byofficer-in-charge of a police station.

PART V

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

12. (1) Any person who –

(a)does, any act which causes the destruction of, or damage to property, whether movableor immovable, or any such change in any such property, as would destroy or diminishits value or utility ; or

(b)causes or attempts to cause death or injury to any person; or

(c )commits criminal intimidation or assault on any other person; or

(d)commits any offence under sections 345, 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 360, 360A, 360B,360C, 364, 365 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19); or

(e)commits theft, extortion or robbery of any property; or

(f)commits any offence under any of the sections 427 to 446 of the Penal Code (Chapter19) or illegally removes, or attempts to remove, any goods or articles from any suchpremises; or

(g)commits any offence under any of the sections 427 to 446 of the Penal Code (Chapter19) or illegally removes, or attempts to remove, any goods or articles from any suchpremises,

shall be guilty of an offence and, notwithstanding anything in the Penal Code (Chapter 19) or in theseregulations shall, on conviction thereof before the High Court, be liable to suffer life imprisonment or aterm of imprisonment of either description twenty years.

(2) Section 96 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) which relates to the right of private defence ofproperty and prescribes the circumstances in which death or other harm can be caused to a wrongdoerin the exercise of such right shall have effect as though there were added at the end of that section thefollowing:-

"Fifthly-any offence under regulation 10 of the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisionsand Powers) Regulations.".

Offences

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20188A

(3) (a) An indictment in respect of any offence under this emergency regulations may beforwarded by the Attorney – General, if he is satisfied that the offence was committed in furtherance ofor in connection with or in the course of a civil disturbance or racially motivated riots prevailing at orabout the time of the commission of the offence:

Provided that, having regard to the circumstances relating to the commission of any offence,the Attorney-General may authorize the Inspector General of Police to institute proceedings in respectof such cases or such category of cases as he may specify in the Magistrate’s Courts and thereuponsuch proceedings may be instituted with the written authority of the Inspector –General of Police, andthe provisions of Chapter XVII of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating to the trialin respect of such offences, shall mutatis mutandis, apply.

(b) Where the proceedings are instituted in a Magistrate’s Court, the offence shall be punishablewith the punishment provided for in those regulations.

13. No person shall –

(a) endeavour to cause disaffection among persons who are –

(i)public officers; or

(ii)engaged in the service of the Republic; or

(iii)engaged in the performance of essential services; or

(b) endeavour to induce any person referred to in paragraph (a) to do or omit to do anything inbreach of his duty as a public officer or as a person as aforesaid would constitute such acontravention.

14. No person shall affix in any place visible to the public, distribute among the public any posters,hand bills or leaflets, the contents of which are prejudicial to public security, public order or themaintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.

15. No person shall, by word of mouth or by any other means whatsoever including through digital andor social media communicate or spread any rumour or false statement or any information or image ormessage which is likely to cause public alarm or public disorder, racial violence or incite the committingof any offence.

16. Any person who –

(a) in answer to any request made in pursuance of any emergency regulation or any order madeunder any such regulation makes any statement or furnishes any information which he knows orhas reasonable cause to believe to be false in a material particular; or

(b) makes such a statement as aforesaid in any account, declaration, estimate, return or otherdocument which he is required by any emergency regulation or by order under any emergencyregulation to make,commits an offence.

17. (1) Any person arrested in terms of these regulations may be detained for the purpose ofinvestigations in terms of an order issued by a Deputy Inspector General of Police. Such person shallbe detained in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such order for a period not exceedingfourteen days.

Prevention ofdisaffection

Distribution ofleaflets & c.

Communicatingor spreading orrumors or falsestatements

False statements

Detention for thepurpose ofinvestigation

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.20189A

(2) Any person arrested in terms of the preceding regulations shall soon as possible be brought toa Police Station and detained therein for a period not exceeding twenty four hours and be producedbefore a Magistrate, unless, an order for his detention has been made by a Deputy Inspector General interms of those regulations.

18. (1) No person shall, attend at or near a house or place where any other person resides or worksor carries on business or happens to be in, such manner as to be calculated to intimidate any person inthat house or place or to obstruct the approach thereto or egress there form, or to lead to a breach of thepeace.

(2) In this regulation, the expression "intimidate" means to cause in the mind of a person areasonable apprehension of injury to him or to any member of his family or to any of his dependents orof violence or damage to any person or property and the expression "injury" includes injury to a personin respect of his business, occupation, employment or other source of income, and includes any actionablewrong.

19. No person shall resist or obstruct any other person in the exercise or discharge of any powerof duty conferred or imposed on that other person by or under any emergency regulation.

20. No person shall without lawful authority cause any obstruction or damage to any public road,bridge or culvert, or to any railway, of any public road, transport vehicle.

21. Any person who –

(a)attempts to commit or does any act preparatory to the commission of; or

(b)aids or abets another person to commit; or

(c)conspires with another person, in the commission of,

an offence under any emergency regulation shall himself be guilty of that offence and shall accordinglybe tried in like manner and be punished with the same punishment as is prescribed for such offenceunder the emergency regulation.

22. No person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that any other person is guilty of anoffence under any emergency regulation shall give that other person any assistance with intent therebyto prevent, hinder or interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of that person for the saidoffence.

23. Where an offence under any emergency regulation is committed by a body of person, then –

(a) if that body is a body corporate, every director of that body corporate; and

(b) if that body is a firm, every partner of that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without hisknowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent that commission of the offence.

Prevention ofintimidation

Resistance to orobstruction ofpersons inauthorityobstruction ordamage to roads,railways & c.

Obstruction ordamage to roads,railways & c.

Attempt tocommit offences

Assisting anoffence

Offences bybodies of persons

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.201810A

24. (1) If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any emergency regulation, or anyorder or rule made under any such regulation or any direction given or requirement imposed under anysuch regulations, he shall commits an offence, and subject to any special provisions contained in suchregulation, shall on conviction after trial by High Court without a jury or by a Magistrate, be liable torigorous imprisonment for a term not less than three months and not exceeding five years and to a fineof not less than five hundred rupees and not exceeding five thousand rupees.

(2) Where no punishment is prescribed in any emergency regulation for an offence under thatregulation a person who commits an offence shall, on conviction after trial without a jury by the HighCourt or by a Magistrate, be liable to a term of imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

(3) Sections 303 and 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not apply toany person convicted of an offence under any emergency regulation.

PART VI

INVESTIGATION, TRIAL & C.

25. (1) Whoever becomes aware of an intention of an attempt or a preparation to commit, or theCommission of an offence under any emergency regulation shall forthwith give information thereof tothe nearest Grama Niladhari or to the Officer-in-charge of the nearest police station.

(2) Any person who willfully fails to give the information referred to in paragraph (1) commits anoffence.

(3) Any Public Servant or Grama Niladhari who receives any information relating to an offenceunder an emergency regulation shall forthwith transmit such information to the officer in charge of thenearest police station.

26. Any police officer investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation may –

(a) orally examine any person suspected to be acquainted with the facts and the circumstances ofthe offence and may reduce into writing any statement so made:

Provided that such statement shall, after it is reduced into writing be signed by both theperson making the same as well as the police officer recording the same:

Provided further that if any person refused to sign the statement after it is reduced intowriting, such refusal shall be recorded by the police officer;

(b) obtain specimen handwriting, photographs, fingerprints and other identifying features of suchperson;

(c) search such person or enter and search the dwelling house or the place of work of such person;

(d) enter and search any place, building, vehicle or vessel concerned in or connected with orsuspected to be concerned in or connected with, any such offence; and

(e) inspects and takes possession of any movable property whatsoever including any telegraphmessage, postal document or other book or document in any bank:

Provided, however, that before any book or document is sought to be obtained from any bank, orpost office, the manager or officer-in-charge of such bank or post office, as the case may be, shall befurnished with prior written information by a Police Officer not below the rank of an AssistantSuperintendent that such book or document is required for the purpose of such investigation.

Penalties

Duty to discloseinformation

Power of Policeofficers toinvestigate

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.201811A

27. Any book, document or paper found in the possession, custody or control of a person suspectedto be concerned in any offence under any emergency regulation shall be relevant in any proceedingsagainst such person in respect of such offence and the contents of such book, document or paper shallbe admissible in evidence, against such person without proof thereof.

28. (1) A police officer or a person duly authorized under the emergency regulations investigatinginto an offence under any emergency regulation shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother law, have –

(a) the right to question any person, including person detained or held in custody under anyemergency regulation and to take such person from place to place for the purpose of suchinvestigation during the period of such questioning; and

(b) the right to take charge from any person so questioned any article or other thing including adocument necessary for the purpose of such investigation.

(2) It shall be the duty of every person to give all assistance to a Police Officer or other personduly authorized, investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation, and every personquestioned under subparagraph (i) of paragraph (1) of this regulation shall-truthfully answer all questionsput to him and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law shall disclose all informationincluding the contents of any document, touching the subject matter of the investigation, irrespectiveof the capacity in which such person has received such information or knowledge of the contents ofsuch document.

(3) It shall be the duty of every person questioned under paragraph (1) of this regulation todeliver to the police officer or a person duly authorized, investigating into a offence under any emergencyregulation any article or other thing including a document in the custody or possession of such personwhen directed so to do by such police officer or person duly authorized.

(4) A contravention of any of the provisions of this regulation or the breach of any duty imposedthereunder shall be an offence under these emergency regulations.

29. During the period that any person is held in detention or custody, a police officer investigatinginto an offence under any emergency regulation shall have a right of access during reasonable hours toany such person for the purpose of such investigation.

30. The powers of a police officer under any emergency regulation shall be in addition to, and not inderogation of, his powers under any other written law.

31. The proceedings in any court in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by aperson under any emergency regulation shall be taken up before any other business of the court.

32. (1) Save as otherwise herein provided and notwithstanding any other written law the proceedingsin respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by a person under any emergency regulationmay be taken before the appropriate court in Sri Lanka having jurisdiction over the place where thatperson is in for the time being.

(2) The Attorney-General may decide in which court –

Documents ofsuspectedpersons inpossession

The right tomake inquiriesand the duty togive assistance

Right of access topolice officer

Powers of policeofficer to be inaddition to otherpowers

Priority forCourtproceedings

Inquiries andtrials

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.201812A

(a) offences alleged to have been committed by persons under the emergency regulations; or

(b) offences alleged to have been committed by persons under any other written law where the actsor commissions constituting such offences were consequent on, or arose out of, or were doneor omitted to be done in, whether directly or indirectly, the exercise or performance, or thesupposed exercise or performance, of any power or duty under such regulations,

shall be inquired into or tried. Such court shall be a court, which would have had jurisdiction to inquireinto or try such offences. If such offences had been committed within the local limits of the jurisdictionof such court.

(3) Where at least one of the charge is for an offence referred to in subparagraph (b) of paragraph(2) the Attorney-General may, notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law, forward anindictment directly to the High Court and the accused shall be tried upon the indictment so preferredwithout a jury.

(4) Where the Attorney-General decides, under paragraph (2) of this regulation the court bywhich any offence shall be inquired into or tried, he shall be his fiat in writing designate such court asthe court by which such offence shall be inquired into or tried and accordingly such inquiry or trial shallbe held by such court on the authority of such fiat, which shall be filed of record with the proceedingsof such inquiry or trial.

(5) A decision of the Attorney-General under paragraph (2) of this regulation may be madeapplicable to –

(a) all offences alleged to have been committed by persons under the emergency regulationsthroughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or

(b) all such offences alleged to have been so committed by persons of any particular class ordescription in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or

(c) all such offences of any particular class or description alleged to have been so committed bypersons throughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or

(d) all such offences of any particular class or description alleged to have been committed byperson of any particular class or description, or any particular person, throughout Sri Lanka orin any particular area in Sri Lanka; or

(e) any particular offence alleged to have been committed by any particular person throughoutSri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka

(6) During the continuance in force of this regulation, section 47 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of1978, which empowers the Attorney-General to transfer and inquire into (or trial of) any criminal offencefrom any court or place to any other court or place or shall have effect as if subsection (2) of that sectionwere not in force.

33. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of regulation 16 no prosecution shall be instituted inthe Magistrate’s Court –

(a) for an offence against any emergency regulation ; or

(b) for an offence against any other written law where the act or omission constituting suchoffence was consequent on, or arose out of, or was done or committed to be done in, whether

Sanction of theAttorney-General

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.201813A

directly or indirectly, the exercise or performance, of any power or duty under such regulationexcept by or with the written sanction of the Attorney-General.

(2) The President may by order declare that the provisions of paragraph (1) of this regulation shallnot apply in respect of any offence against any such emergency regulation as may be specified in theorder and accordingly, so long as such order remains in force, that paragraph shall not apply to any suchoffence.

34. (1) Notwithstanding any emergency regulation or other written law the trial, including a trial atbar, for any offence under the emergency regulations, may be held upon indictment by the Attorney-General and thereupon the person charged shall be tried without a preliminary inquiry before the HighCourt at bar, as the case may be, without a jury;

Provided that where the Attorney-General being of opinion that evidence recorded at a preliminaryinquiry will be necessary for preparing an indictment, may direct the holding of a preliminary inquiry.The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatismutandis, apply to such preliminary inquiry.

(2) No person suspected or accused of having committed an offence in terms of those regulationsbe admitted to bail except under exceptional circumstances.

(3) A trial before the High Court under these regulations, including a High Court at Bar, shall beheld as speedily as possible and in the manner provided under any other written law for other trialsbefore the High Courts, or the High Court at Bar, as the case may be, without a jury.

35. The provisions of Chapter XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall notapply to any investigations conducted under any emergency regulation.

PART VII

MISCELLANEOUS

36. (1) During the continuance in force of this regulation any police officer of a rank not belowthat of a Sergeant, any member of the Sri Lanka Army of a rank not below that of a Corporal, any memberof the Sri Lanka Navy of a rank not below that of a Leading Seaman, or any member of the Sri Lanka AirForce of a rank not below that a Corporal, may order any person or persons in or about any public road,railway, public park, public recreation ground or other public ground, seashore, or in or about, or in thevicinity of, the premises of any public building or Government Department, to remove himself orthemselves from that place and it shall be the duty of such person, or each such person, as the case maybe, to comply with such order.

(2) If, upon the issue of an order under subparagraph (b) of paragraph (1) of this regulation by anyofficer empowered to issue such order, any person does not comply with the order or conducts himselfin such a manner as to show a determination not to comply with the order such officer with suchassistance as may be necessary, may proceed to give effect to such order by force including armedforces and may cause such person to be removed or arrested and confined.

(3) During the continuance in force of this regulation, section 306(1), (2) and (4) of the Code ofCriminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not apply to or in relation to any person who is chargedwith, or is convicted of, any offence under any emergency regulation.

Trials beforeHigh Court

Provisions ofChapter XI of theCode of CriminalProcedure Act,No. 15 of 1979not to apply

Miscellaneouspowers

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.201814A

37. (1) Notwithstanding anything in any other law to the contrary, a person taken into custodyand detained under any emergency regulation may, during the period of such custody and detention, bequestioned by any Police officer, or any other officer authorized by the Commissioner of the Army,Commander of the Navy or Commander of the Air Force and it shall be the duty of the person soquestioned to answer the question addressed to him.

(2) For the purpose of questioning any person taken into custody and detained under paragraph(1) or for any other purpose connected with such questioning, any officer referred to in paragraph (1) ofthis regulation may remove such person from any place of detention or custody and keep him in thetemporary custody of such officer for a period not exceeding seven days at a time.

38. (1) Without prejudices to any special provisions contained in these regulations, anyperson shall, on being specified so to do by or on behalf of a competent authority, furnish or produce tosuch authority or person as may be so specified, being information or an article which the authority orperson making the request is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to obtain or examine in theinterests of the national security or the maintenance of public order, or for the purposes of any emergencyregulation and if any person fails to furnish or produce any information or article in his possession inpursuance a request duly made to him under this regulation, commits an offence.

(2) In this regulation, "article" includes any book, account or document.

39. A member of the Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy, or the Sri Lanka Air Force shall, when he isdriving any motor vehicle when authorized so to do by the Competent Authority, for the purpose of thepreservation of public order, by exempt for such of provisions of the Motor Traffic Act and the regulationsmade thereunder as are specified in Schedule A to the Motor Traffic (Exemption of Her Majesty’sForces) Regulations, 1955, published in Gazette No. 10, 815 of 08th July, 1955.

40. (1) The President may, by order, appoint any person, by name or by office, to be theCo-ordinating Officer for any area in Sri Lanka specified in the order.

(2) Where a Co-ordinating Officer is appointed by the President by order for any area in SriLanka, such officer shall exercise, perform or discharge in that area all the powers, duties or functionsconferred or imposed on a Government Agent under any written law or otherwise, and for that purposeevery reference shall in its application in the case of that area, be constructed as a reference to such Co-ordinating Officer.

(3) President may, by order, appoint any person, by name or by officer, to be a Co-ordinator-in-Chief to exercise supervision over co-ordinating Officers appointed under paragraph (1) for any suchareas as are specified in the order.

(4) The President may appoint, by name or by office, such Deputy Co-ordinators-in-Chief, as maybe necessary to assist the Co-ordinator-in-Chief for the performance of his duties under these regulations.

(5) The Co-ordinator-in-Chief may delegate to any Deputy appointed under paragraph (4) anypower, duty or function, conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such Co-ordinator-in-Chief or underthese regulations.

(6) Any Co-ordinator-in-Chief appointed under paragraph (3), or any Deputy Co-ordinator-in-Chief appointed under paragraph (4) and to where any power, duty or function of a Co-ordinator-in-Chief has been delegated under paragraph (5), may –

Duty to answerquestions.

Power to obtaininformation orexamine articles.

Exemption ofmembers of thearmed forcesfrom certainprovisions of theMotor Traffic Act.

The powers,duties andfunctions of agovernmentAgent, may be toa GovernmentAgent in suchwritten Lawexercised orperformed by aCo-or.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.201815A

(a)exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function conferred or imposed onany Co-ordinating Officer by this regulation and over whom he exercises supervision;and

(b)give special or general directions to any Co-ordinating Officer over whom he exercisessupervision, as to the exercise, performance or discharge by such Co-ordinating Officer,of any power, duty or function conferred or imposed in such Co-ordinating Officer bythis regulation.

41. It shall be the duty of all Public Servants, Police Officers, Members of the Armed Forces andemployees of statutory boards and authorities to take steps in good faith to enforce the provisions ofthese regulations in good faith, impartially and comprehensively and prevent a violation of any of theregulations contained herein to the best of their ability.

Duty of PublicServants & etc.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.