I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 08.07.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2131$2 - 2019 cQ,s ui 08 jeks i÷od - 2019'07'08No. 2131/2 - MONDAY, JULY 08, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A PG 4588— 3017 (07/2019)

L.D.B. 11/80(3)

FOOD ACT, No. 26 OF 1980

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine in terms of Section 32 of the FoodAct, No. 26 of 1980 in consultation with the Food Advisory Committee.

Dr. RAJITHA SENARATHNE,Minister of Health, Nutrition andIndigenous Medicine.

Colombo,27th June, 2019.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as the Food (Additives - General) Regulations 2019 and shall come intooperation on 1st of January 2020.

2. No person shall import, manufacture, offer for sale, advertise for sale or sell, transport, distribute, store orintroduce into or on any food, any food additives other than the following (hereinafter referred to as the permitted foodadditive) :-

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 08.07.20192A

(a) food additives which are covered by regulations specified in the Schedule I ; and

(b) classes of food additives used for technological functions that are specified in the Schedule II and coveredby the list and limits for the substances published in the General Standard for Food Additives (GSFA) of theCodex Alimentarious Commission, unless regulated by food additives specified in product standardsestablished under the Food Act.

3. A new food additive, if permitted by Codex Alimentarious Commission may be allowed by the Chief FoodAuthority on the recommendation of the Food Advisory Committee.

4. No person shall introduce into or on any food, any food additive in such a manner as to conceal or damage, ormake any inferiority in the quality of that food.

5. (1) The label printed on or attached to the package or container -

(a) of a food product containing food additives imported, manufactured, sold, transported, distributed or storedshall include the common name and INS numbers of the food additives as permitted ; and

(b) of permitted food additivies imported, manufactured, sold, transported, distributed or stored shall includethe common names and classes, INS numbers of the food additives and a statement of directions for itsstorage, if any.

(2) In the case of flavoring substances, it shall be sufficient to state the common name of such food flavoringsubstance and the specific type of flavour.

6. The labelling of a package or container of a food product containing permitted food additives shall be incompliance with the provisions of the Food (Labelling and Advertising) Regulations 2005 published in GazetteExtraordinary No. 1376/9 of January 19, 2005 and any subsequent amendments or replacements.

7. (1) No person shall import, manufacture, store, transport, sell or offer for sale or advertise any permitted foodadditive (including any permitted food additive mixed with any other substance) as an ingredient for the preparation offood, unless such food additive is dispensed in a container bearing a label in accordance with the requirements as follows:--

(a) the common name and the INS number of every permitted food additive present in the preparation in thecontainer ; and

(b) the common name and the INS number, if any, of each other substance present in the preparation in thecontainer.

(2) If two or more such substances are present, the proportion of each permitted food additive and of eachother substance present in the preparation of food shall be submitted as given in the technical data sheets, if requested bythe Chief Food Authority.

8. (1) Notwithstanding anything stated in these regulations, a food additive may be present in any food where-

(a) the additive is permitted by any other regulations mentioned in Schedule I to be in any ingredient used inthe manufacture of the food ;

(b) the proportion of the additive in any such ingredient does not exceed the maximum proportion, if any,permitted by any other regulation made under the food Act or Codex Alimentarious Commission for theclass of food additives mentioned in Schedule II, unless regulated by food additives specified in productstandards ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 08.07.20193A

(c) the total proportion of the additive in the final product does not exceed the maximum proportion, if any,permitted by any other regulation made under the food Act or Codex Alimentarious Commission for theclass of food additives mentioned in Schedule II, unless regulated by food additives specified in productstandards ;

(d) the food into which the additive is carried over does not exceed the permitted level for that particular food; and

(e) the additives which are carried over into foods at a level less than that required to achieve a technologicalfunction and processing aids are exempted from declaration in the list of ingredients.

(2) For the avoidance of doubt it is declared that where a combination of the same class of additives is presentin the final product, the quantity of each such additive shall be expressed as a percentage of the maximum permitted limitof that additive and the total of these percentages shall not exceed hundred.

9. In these regulations -

“Carried over” means the presence of food additives in food as a result of the use of raw material or otheringredients in which these additives are used ;

“Class of food additives” means the name given to a group of food additives performing a particulartechnological function in the food within the classification purview of the Codex AlimentariousCommission ;

“Food Additive” means any substance not normally consumed as a food by itself and not normally used asa typical ingredient of the food, whether or not it has nutritive values, the intentional addition ofwhich to food for a technological (including organoleptic) purpose in the manufacture, processing,preparation, treatment, packaging, transport or storage of such food results, or may be reasonablyexpected to result (directly or indirectly), in it or its by - products becoming a component of orotherwise affecting the characteristics of such foods. The term does not include common salt,substances added to food for maintaining or improving nutritional quality or contaminants ;

“processing aid” means any substance or material, not including apparatus or utensils, and not consumed asa food ingredient by it self, intentionally used in the processing of raw material, foods or its ingredientto fulfill a certain technological purpose during treatment or processing which may result in the non- intentional but unavoidable presence of residues or derivative in the final products.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 08.07.20194A

SCHEDULE I

(Regulation 2)

1. Food (Coloring substances) Regulations - 2006, Gazette No. 1472/19 dated November 23, 2006 ;2. Amendment to Food (Colouring substances) Regulations - 2006, Gazette No. 1586/26 dated January 23,2009 ;3. Amendment to Food (Coloring substances) Regulations - 2006, Gazette No. 1688/28 dated January 14,2011 ;4. Food (Antioxidant) Regulations - 2009, Gazette No. 1617/16 dated September 1, 2009 ;5. Amendment to Food (Antioxidant) Regulations - 2009, Gazette No. 1809/4 dated May 6, 2013 ;6. Food (Flavoring substances and flavor enhancers) Regulations - 2013, Gazette No. 1795/51 dated February 1,2013 ;7. Food (Sweeteners) Regulations - 2014, Gazette No. 1905/36 dated March 13, 2015 ;8. Food (Preservatives) Regulations - 2019, Gazette No. 2113/16 dated March 5, 2019 ;

SCHEDULE II

(Regulation 2)

Class of Food AdditiveTechnological Function

Acidity regulatorsalters or controls the acidity or alkalinity of a food.

Anticaking agentsreduces the tendency of articles of food to adhere to one another.

Antifoaming agentsprevents or reduces foaming.

Flour treatment agentsa substance added to flour to improve its baking quality or colour.

Colour retention agentsstabilizes, retains or intensifies the colour of food.

Emulsifierssubstatances which, when added to food, are capable of facilitating uniform dispersion

of oils and fats in aqueous media or vice versa.

Firming agentsmakes or keeps tissues of fruits or vegetables firm and crisp, or interacts with gelling

agents to produce or strengthen a gel.

Foaming agentsmake it possible to form or maintain a uniform dispersion of a gaseous phase in a

liquid or solid food.

Glazing agentsa substance which is applied to the external surface of a food.

Humectantsprevents food from drying out by counteracting the effect of a wetting agent

atmosphere having a low degree of humidity.

Propellantsa gas, other than air, which expels a food from a container.

Raising/leavening agentsa substance or combination of substances which liberate gas and thereby increase

the volume of a dough.

Sequestrants/emulsifying saltreacts with trace metals in foods, forming tightly bound complexes thereby preventing

the auto oxidation of fats and oils and fat ased products.

Stabilizerssubstances which, when added to food, stabilize emulsions.

07 - 730

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.