==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1947$26 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2015'12'29

No. 1947/26 - TUESDAY DECEMBER 29, 2015

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY OF SRI LANKA

NATIONAL Immunization Policy of Sri Lanka is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is effective from 16thOctober 2014 onwards, it is a long felt need of the country which will provide the policy guidance and directions to thenational and provincial authorities, and other relevant stakeholders for effective implementation of the NationalImmunization Programme.

ANURA JAYAWICKRAMA,

Secretary,Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine.

Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine,No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,Colombo 10,23rd December 2015.

Preamble

With the vision of a country free of vaccine preventable diseases of public health importance and by creating an enablingenviornment for immunization of all eligible citizens of Sri Lanka against vaccine preventable diseases of public healthimportance, Cabinet of Ministers has approved the National Immunization Policy of Sri Lanka.

Sri Lanka has achieved significant improvement in human development index in 2014, securing the 73rd placeglobally and has become the 1st in the South East Asian Region. Some health indicators of this country is at a level to becompared with that of developed countries in the world.

National Immunization Programme of Sri Lanka has made great progress by providing quality immunizationservices covering the whole country with special emphasis on infants, children and pregnant mothers in a sustainable andequitable manner through a comprehensive island wide network of free health care services. The National ImmunizationProgramme is aiming to ensure the availability of efficacious safe vaccines, provision of services efficiently, maintainingvaccines at optimal temperatures, timely distribution of logistics through the system, rational introduction of new vaccines,availability of trained skilled workers, availability of surveillance for vaccine effectiveness and safety, adequate funding

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20152A

and due recognition for research. All these will reflect on the essential components of a well-functioning immunizationprogramme in the country. The main objective of introduction of the National Immunization Policy is to ensure theoptimal functioning of all said components of a well-functioning immunization programme. Successful implementationof the National Immunization Policy will help to strengthen the free immunization services provided by the public sectorwhile strengthening the quality and standards of the immunization services the private sector.

NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY - 2014

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA APPROVED THE NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION

POLICY ON 16TH OCTOBER 2014

Background

Governments have the authority and responsibility to ensure vaccination of all citizens. To this end, the worldover, National Immunization Programmes are being developed which are relatively autonomous, sustainable and effective.The National Immunization Programme (NIP) of Sri Lanka has been implemented to prevent priority vaccine preventablediseases in the country. The NIP has an excellent record, with estremely low incidence of vaccine preventable diseases(VPD) which are covered by the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) and high coverage of all EPI vaccine.

The main components of a well-functioning immunization programme include : availability of efficacious, safeand quality vaccines, efficient service deliver ; capacity to maintain vaccines at the right temperature (cold chain) andtimely distribute these through the system (logistics) ; surveillance on vaccine effectiveness and immunization safety ;assessing burden of VPD in order to introduce of new vaccines ; trained skilled health workers ; research ; adequatefunding ; advocacy, effective comunication, programme planning and management.

The main purpose of introducing an immunization policy is to ensure that all components of the NIP functionoptimally to achieve its set goals and objectives.

In addition, the immunization policy has to be considered with all other relevant policies of the country, recognizingequity, have and evidence base, recognize the importance of private public partnership, have a multidisciplinary andmultisectoral approach and be mindful of ethical considerations.

National Immunization Programme

All vaccines in the National Immunization Programme follow the immunization schedules approved by the NationalAdvisory Committee on Communicable Diseases (NACCD) of the Ministry of Health. Timing and the type of vaccines tobe included in the NIP is based on the disease burden, affordability and feasibility of implementation and in achieving theobjective of the NIP.

Immunization for vulnerable groups/high risk categories (immunosuppressed, premature infants, pregnancy,increased risk of occupational disease exposures etc) and during special situations (exposure to infectious diseasesfollowing disasters, during disease outbreaks, risk of disease exposure of travellers) are an essential component of theNIP. Special vaccines or immunization schedules are recommended for those vulnerable populations in order to protectthem against vaccine preventable diseases.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20153A

The implementation of National Immunization Policy is a continuous process, the responsibility for which willbe shared by many stake holders. Many stakeholders including the National Advisory Committee on CommunicableDiseases, Epidemiology Unit, National Medicines Regulatory Authority, Family Health Bureau (FHB), Health EducationBureau (HEB), Medical Research Institute (MRI), education sector, private sector health institutions, medical professionalbodies, universitites/other training and teaching institutions and International Agencies (WHO, UNICEF, GAVl etc) areinvolved in the implementation of the National Immunization Programme.

The NIP provides it services through a wide network of service delivery points to ensure easy accessibility to thepublic. Vast majority of the public get their immunization services free of charge through the state hospitals and clinics.Over the years, a gradual expansion of the availability of private sector immunization services has taken place especiallyin the urban areas. The Government of Sri Lanka recognizes the importance of public private partnership in deliveringefficient immunization services to the public while ensuring the sustainability of state sector free immunization services.Proper regulatory mechanisms will be placed to ensure the delivery of a safe quality immunization service by both publicand private sector service providers.

Over 90% of the total cost of the state immunization programme is borne by the Government of Sri Lanka. Thisis good evidence for the stability of financial sustainability. At present the WHO, GAVI and UNICEF are the leadinginternational donors providing funding to the country NIP.

Future expansion of immunization activities, including the introduction of new vaccine and safer vaccinationtechnologies, may require a significant increase in funding.

Vision of the Immunization Policy

Sri Lanka a country free of vaccine preventable diseases of public health importance.

Mission of the Immunization Policy

To ensure the provision of an enabling environment for immunization of all eligible individuals in the country.

Goal of the Immunization Policy

To protect all citizens against vaccine preventable diseases of public health importance as determined by theNational Immunization Programme and work with regional/ global initiatives.

Objectives

1.To ensure the availability and affordability of quality immunization services in a sustainable and equitablemanner.

2.To have a country free of vaccine preventable diseases of public health importance by ensuring the use ofefficacious, safe and quality vaccines relevant to the health care needs of the people, in a sustainable andequitable manner.

3.To ensure the rational and evidence based introduction of new vaccines

4.To ensure the implementation of the National Immunization Programme by all service providers bymonitoring, evaluation, information management and research in the field of immunization.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20154A

5.To ensure financial sustainability of the National Immunization Programme.

6.To ensure advocacy, promotion, awareness, protection and support for the National Immunization Programme.

7.To implement the National Immunization Policy in a systematic manner, inclusive of all stakeholders andthe training of all immunization service providers.

STRATEGIES TOWARDS ACHIEVING OBJECTIVES

Objective 1 - Immunization Services

To ensure the availability of affordability of quality immunization services in a sustabinable and equitable manner.

1.1All citizens of Sri Lanka shall receive all vaccine recommended in the EPI in the National ImmunizationProgramme within the specified age limits as a minimum requirement within the rights of individuals andthe public, except for valid medical reasons.

1.2All immunization services provided to the community shall be in an equitable and an affordable manner.

1.3All immunization services provided by the NIP shall be made available and accessible to all individuals inSri Lanka through a comprehensive island wide network of health care services.

1.4The Ministry of Health shall act as the sole decision making authority for all immunization related activitiesin the country. Technical aspects on the NIP will be periodically reviewed and necessary recommendationswill be made by the programme managers and the National Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases(NACCD).

1.5All immunization related activities should be carried out at centres which are registered and accredited bythe Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health will ensure all immunization clinic centres have minimumrequired facilities to deliver effective, safe and quality immunization services to the public.

1.6All private sector immunization clinic centers providing immunization services should be registered andaccredited as “Immunization Clinic Centers of NIP” under the Ministry of Health, in accordance with thePrivate Medical Institutions (Registration) Act / Private Health Services Regulatory Council.

1.7All citizens seeking immunization services shall be provided with appropriate immunization through provisionof quality vaccines administered in a safe and effective manner.

1.8All immunization service providers should ensure that cold chain of the vaccines is maintained during thetransport, storage and up to the administration of vaccines.

1.9All used vaccine vials, syringes and other accumulated medical waste related to the immunization processshall be handled safely in compliance with the policy adopted on safe disposal of medical waste in accordancewith the National Environmental Policy of the country.

1.10All immunization service providers should adhere to the rules, regulations and guidelines related to theprovision of quality and safe immunization services formulated by the NIP.

1.11All immunization service providers are expected to share all immunization related information with theNIP.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20155A

1.12Vulnerable groups and high risk categories should be adequately protected against vaccine preventablediseases appropriate to the situation.

1.13During special situations such as disasters and disease outbreaks ensure adequate protection to the affectedpopulations against possible vaccine preventable diseases by timely provision of appropriate immunizationservices.

1.14During a disaster or disease outbreak situation, vaccine received as donations should go through the requiredquality assurance and registration process.

1.15In accordance with the country specific requirements and international regulations all cross border emigrantsand immigrants should be protected from required vaccine preventable diseases.

1.16Occupation related vaccine preventable diseases risk shall be minimized by provision of appropriateimmunization services for relevant occupational categories as recommended by the NACCD.

1.17The National Immunization Programme requires close collaboration and coordination among the relevantstakeholders.

1.18All service providers involved in provision of immunization services should be competent to dischargetheir expected tasks.

1.19Immunization service providers shall not be held liable for any adverse events following immunization aslong as they comply to the National Immunization Programme guidelines.

1.20Ensure that all vaccine recipients receive age approriate and correct dose of vaccine by using the correcttechnique indicated according to available scientific evidence.

1.21The immunization service provider should ensure that information on vaccine efficacy and safety is madeavailable to the recipient.

1.22Welfare of vaccine recipients with proven evidence of permanent disability or death due to immunizationwill follow the Health Ministry response procedure.

1.23Will ensure the availability of safe and efficacious passive immunization products (e. g. immunoglobulinsand hyper immune immunoglobulins) to prevent or treat medical conditions that require them.

Objective 2 - Efficacious, safe and quality vaccines

To have a country free of vaccine preventable diseases of public health importance by ensuring the use of efficacious safeand quality vaccines relevant to the health care needs of the people in a sustainable and equitable manner.

2.1Availability of efficacious, safe and quality vaccines for the public will govern the state immunization policyand free health care service commitment of the country.

2.2Vaccines used in the National Immunization Programme shall be cost effective.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20156A

2.3Country recognizes the co-existence of immunization services in the private sector with efficacious, safeand quality vaccines in an affordable manner to the public to ensure a wider range of immunizationopportunities.

2.4No vaccine shall be used in the country without registration at the National Regulatory Authority.

2.5Registration of all vaccines is in the best interest of the public. Registration of new vaccines or newformulations used in both government and private sectors will follow the requirements laid down by theCosmetics Devices and Drugs Authority - National Regulatory Authotity (CDDA-NRA) on therecommendation of the National Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases (NACCD).

2.6Registration is mandatory for vaccines procured or donated by international agencies or non-governmentalorganizations.

2.7Vaccines used in the government sector will follow the standard government procurement procedures, givingdue attention to the efficacy, safety and quality aspects based on available information.

2.8Regulatory procedure adopted by the NMRA should be followed for all vaccines used in the private sectorgiving due attention to the safety and quality aspects based on available information.

2.9All service providers will ensure that all vaccines in the National Immunization Programme follow theimmunization schedules recommended by the National Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases.

2.10Both public and private sector institutions should maintain the cold chain of vaccines from importation tothe service delivery point to ensure efficacy, safety and quality of the vaccines. Cold chain operationalcapacity at both public and private sector will be monitored and evaluated by the NMRA and programmemanagement institution.

2.11Immunization service providers should ensure that information on risk benefit of vaccines will be madeavailable to the recipient. Any information meterial provided in this regard should be with the concurrenceof the Ministry of Health.

2.12Disposal of expired or condemned vaccines will follow the policy adopted on safe disposal of medicalwaste in accordance with the National Enviornmental Policy and National Medicines Regulatory AuthorityAct in Sri Lanka.

2.13Efficacy, safety and quality of vaccines will be safeguarded through surveillance, monitoring and evaluationby the NMRA (National Medicines Regulatory Authority), National Control Laboratory (Medical ResearchInstitute) and the Immunization Programme Management Institution (Epidemiology Unit).

Objective 3 - Introduction of new vaccines

To ensure the rational and evidence based introduction of new vaccines.

3.1The National Immunization Programme should be reviewed periodically and updated in accordance withavailable evidence of the country’s vaccine preventable disease epidemiology and regional/global initiatives.

3.2Introduction of new vaccines and changes of the national immunization schedule should be performed basedon scientific evidence.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20157A

3.3All new vaccine introduction related research activities shall be in accordance with scientifically soundmethodology, good clinical practice (GCP) standards, ethical clearance process (through the Health Ministryapproved ethical committees) and proper/timely dissemination of research finding among the stakeholders.In addition all vaccine related clinical trials need approval from the NMRA.

3.4Research and development of vaccine is recognized as an important component of the National ImmunizationProgramme.

3.5As part of the vaccine research development effort, the possibility of manufacturing cost effective, safe andefficacious vaccines in a sustainable manner for NIP will be explored to address the country need.

Objective 4 - Implementation of the National Immunization Programme.

To ensure the optimal implementation of the NIP by all service providers, through monitoring, evaluation, informationmanagement and operational research in the field of immunization.

4.1All immunization service providers shall provide necessary information to the NIP to carry out effectivemonitoring and evaluation of the immunization programme.

4.2All health care service providers who attend on patients with adverse events following immunization (AEFI)and patients with clinically suspected vaccine preventable diseases shall notify through the National DiseaseSurveillance System, to the NIP in accordance with the guidelines.

4.3All serious AEFI reported to the NIP shall be investigated. It will also take steps to investigate all clinicallyconfirmed vaccine preventable diseases which have being reported through the National Disease SurveillanceSystem.

4.4The National Immunization Programme activities and performance will be monitored and evaluated byrelevant authorities.

4.5Confidentiality of all immunization related information affecting individuals, groups of people or serviceproviders shall be ensured at all levels.

4.6All immunization related research activities shall be in accordance with scientific methods, standard ethicalclearance process (through Health Ministry approved ethics committees) and proper/timely disseminationof research finding among the stakeholders.

4.7Scientific research findings, AEFI surveillance data, post licensure data and vaccine preventable diseasesurveillance data should be shared and utilized when taking decisions on the National ImmunizationProgramme.

Objective 5 - Financial Sustainability

To ensure the financial sustainability of the National Immunization Programme

5.1The Government of Sri Lanka is committed to maintain the financial sustainability of the immunizationprogramme. The state will provide sufficient funding for timely procurement and supply of quality vaccinesand other supportive logistics.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20158A

5.2To ensure the financial sustainability, the Government of Sri Lanka will ensure a separate budget line for theNIP within the National Budget. This budget line will be reviewed annually with a view of achieving NIPobjectives.

5.3To ensure the smooth functioning of immunization services in accordance with the NIP objectives at provinciallevels, all provincial authorities shall ensure timely availability of adequate funds and other resources.

5.4The Government of Sri Lanka will explore the possibility of obtaining donor funding to strengthen the NIPwhile maintaining the integrity of the programme and programme objectives.

5.5Mechanisms will be in place to regularly monitor the financial sustainability of the NIP.

Objectives 6 - Advocacy and promotion

To ensure advocacy, promotion, awareness, protection and support for the National Immunization Programme.

6.1The right of the general public to access vaccine and immunization related information is recognized.

6.2High community awareness should be promoted on the importance, benefits and need of age appropriateimmunization.

6.3All healthcare systems (public and private ; western and other) shall engage in promoting, protecting andsupporting the NIP.

6.4Capacity building of all healthcare providers for promoting immunization activities of NIP will be encouraged.

6.5The Government of Sri Lanka recognizes the vital role played by the education sector, media institutions,community organizations, NGO’s, development partners and other UN agencies in promoting, protectingand supporting the NIP implementation by the Health Sector.

6.6All educational authorities including preschools and schools (both public and private) will promote andsupport activities of the National Immunization Programme. Child vaccination status at School entry shouldbe evaluated and identified deficiencies will be rectified.

6.7Have a constant dialogue with media organizations to encourage reporting of matters related to immunizationin a timely, rational and responsible manner for the benefit of the public.

6.8Vendors of vaccines shall adhere to accepted marketing ethics relevant to immunization to ensure protectionand support for the NIP when promoting all vaccines and immunization services.

Objective 7 - Implementation of the National Immunization Policy

The implementation of the National Immunization policy is a continuous process, the responsibility for which will beshared by relevant stakeholders.

7.1The National Immunization Policy will be implemented within the goals, objectives and framework of theNational Health Policy of the Government of Sri Lanka.

7.2Implementation of the National Immunization Policy will be done through a strategic plan.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.20159A

7.3National Immunization Policy will be strengthened through and Act of Parliament.

7.4The Director General of Health Services is the competent authority for implementation, monitoring andevaluation of the National Immunization Policy. The Director General of Health Services shall obtain adviceand consult the National Advisory Committee on Communicable Diseases (NACCD) on implementation ofthe National Immunization Policy.

7.5Provincial Health Authorities should adhere to the National Immunization Policy and strategic plan whilecarrying out all immunization related activities in their respective provinces.

7.6Public Health Veterinary Services should adhere to the National Immunization Policy while carrying outvaccine preventable disease control activities.

7.7National Immunization Policy and strategic plan will be implemented by national and provincial healthauthorities. Further, policy implementation will be done through coordination and collaboration withGovernment Ministries, Public and private institutions, national and international organizations.

7.8The implementation of the National Immunization Policy will be monitored and evaluated on a regularbasis, through an effective monitoring system. For each area of the National Immunization policy, monitoringindicators will be developed and the progress of implementation will be monitored accordingly.

7.9The National Immunization Policy will be reviewed periodically and updated according to the needs of thecountry.

Members of the working committee to formulate the National Immunization Policy

1.Prof. Lalitha Mendis (Chairperson),Emiratus Professor,University of Colombo.

2.Dr. Paba Palihawadana (Vice Chairperson),Chief Epidemiologist,Epidemiology Unit.

3.Dr. Ananda Amarasinghe (Lead Reviewer),Consultant Epidemiologist,Epidemiology Unit.

4.Dr. Samitha Ginige (Lead Writer),Consultant Epidemiologist,Epidemiology Unit.

5.Dr. Jagath Amarasekara (Co-Writer),Consultant Epidemiologist,Epidemiology Unit.

6.Dr. Deepa Gamage (Co-Writer),Consultant Epidemiologist,Epidemiology Unit.

Members of the National Immunization Policy Review Committee

Dr. P. G. Mahipala-Director General of Health ServicesDr. Sarath Amunugama-Deputy Director General of Health Services (Public Health)Dr. Paba Palihawadana-Chief Epidemiologist, Emidemiology UnitDr. Deepthi Perera-Director, Family Health BureauDr. Neelamani Hewageeganage -Director, Health Education Bureau

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'29PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.201510A

Dr. Hemantha Benaragama-Dirctor, Medical Technology and SuppliesDr. Susie Perera-Director, Policy Analysis and DevelopmentDr. Kanthi Ariyarathne-Director, Private Health Sector DevelopmentProf. Lalith Mendis-Emiratus Professor, University of ColomboProf. S. P. Lamabadusuriya-Emiratus Professor of Paediatrics, University of ColomboProf. Harendra De Silva-Senior Professor of Paediatrics, University of KelaniyaProf. Lal Jayakody-Professor of Pharmacology, University of ColomboDr. Ananda Amarasinghe-Consultant Epidemiologist, Epidemiology UnitDr. T. S. R. Peiris-Assistant Epidemiologist, Epidemiology UnitDr. Samitha Ginige-Consultant Epidemiologist, Epidemiology UnitDr. Jagath Amarasekara-Consultant Epidemiologist, Epidemiology UnitDr. Deepa Gamage-Consultant Epidemiologist, Epidemiology UnitDr. Athula Liyanapathirana-Registrar in Community Medicine, Epidemiology UnitDr. Chitramalee De Silva-Deputy Director, Family Health BureauDr. Ayesha Lokubalasooriya-Consultant Community Physician, Family Health BureauDr. Neil Thalagala-Consultant Community Physician, Family Health BureauDr. Kapila Jayarathne-Consultant Community Physician, Family Health BureauDr. Sriyani Dissanayaka-Deputy Director, Medical Technology and SuppliesDr. Omlala Wimalarathna-Consultant Virologist, Medical Research InstituteDr. Kanthi Nanayakkara-Consultant Virologist, Medical Research InstituteDr. Ananda Samarasekara-Chief Judicial Medical Officer, ColomboMrs. A. R. Ahamed-Legal Officer, Ministry of HealthDr. Navartnasingam Janakan-National Consultant, WHO Country Office, Sri LankaDr. Palitha Abeykoon-President, Sri Lanka Medical AssociationDr. B. J. C. Perera-Past President, Sri Lanka Medical AssociationDr. Sunethra Gunasena-President, Sri Lanka College of MicrobiologistDr. Upul Dissanayaka-Secretary, Ceylon College of Physicians, Sri LankaProf. Dulani Gunasekara-President, Sri Lanka College of PaediatriciansDr. M. G. H. Thilakarathne-College of General Practitioners of Sri LankaMrs. Piyumanti Peiris-Senior Assistant Secretary (Legal), Ministry of JusticeMrs. K. R. Y. Hapuarachchi-Deputy Legal Draftsman, Legal Draftsman DepartmentMr. R. P. Kodithuwakku-Assistant Legal Draftsman, Legal Draftsman DepartmentMs. Renuka Peiris-Director, School Health and Nutrition, Ministry of Education,Mrs. Rukmal Abeywickrama-Director, National Budget DepartmentMrs. Disna Niharepola-Assistant Director, Department of National PlanningMs. A. Kawitha-Assistant Director, Department of Nationl PlanningDr. S. Shivaganesh-Regional Epidemiologist, JaffnaDr. K. Suthagar-Regional Epidemiologist, Mannar

01-526

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.