PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DRUG DEPENDANT PERSONS(TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION)ACT, No. 54 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 13th November, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16, 2007

1Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

2 —PL 002499 — 4,350 (10/2007)

Short title.

[Certified on 13th November, 2007]

L.D.—O.61/2003.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE TREATMENT AND

REHABILITATION OF DRUG DEPENDANT PERSONS AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.This Act may be cited as the Drug DependantPersons (Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007and shall come into operation on such date as the Ministermay appoint by Order published in the Gazette(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).

PART 1

TREATMENT CENTRES

2.For the purposes of this Act the Minister on therecommendation of the National Dangerous Drug ControlBoard (hereinafter referred to as “NDDCB”) may, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, designate any place or buildingto be a Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre (hereinafterreferred to as a “Treatment Centre”) for the care andrehabilitation of drug dependant persons.

3.(1) Any person may on his own behalf or on behalfof any body corporate or unincorporated apply to theNDDCB for a license to establish in the premises to bespecified in the application, a private Treatment Centrefor the care and rehabilitation of drug dependant persons.

(2) If the NDDCB is satisfied that—

(a)the premises are designed in such a manner so as tomake it suitable for use as a Treatment Centre ;

(b)the facilities available at such Centre are adequatefor the carrying out of the objects of the Act ;

TreatmentCentres.

Licensing ofprivate TreatmentCentres.

2Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

(c)the staff employed at such Centres possess theprescribed qualifications in order to ensure theyare competent to discharge their functions underthis Act ; and

(d) the arrangements proposed for the managementof the Centre are satisfactory,

it may grant the applicant a licence subject to anyconditions, limitations or restrictions it considersnecessary. Such conditions, limitations or restrictions shallbe set out, in the licence.

4.(1) The Minister shall on the recommendation ofthe NDDCB appoint for the purposes of this Act, a personto be the Director of Treatment Centres (hereinafterreferred to as “the Director”) to exercise and perform suchpowers and duties as are assigned to, or imposed on, theDirector by this Act or any regulation made thereunder.

(2) For the purpose of ascertaining whether theprovisions of this Act are being complied with, the Directoror any person authorized to act on his behalf may enterany Treatment Centre designated or licensed under thisAct at all reasonable times and make such examinationsas he considers necessary thereon for that purpose. Hemay bring with him such assistants, as he considersnecessary for such purpose.

(3) The Director shall submit periodic reports to theNDDCB which shall contain information regarding thework of the Treatment Centres in relation to the numberof persons being treated at such Centres and theeffectiveness of such Centres at providing treatment andrehabilitation facilities to drug dependant persons.

5.The NDDCB may from time to time issue suchgeneral or special directions as are necessary to ensure theefficient management of Treatment Centres. It shall be theduty of such Centres to comply with such directives.

Director ofTreatmentCenters.

NDDCB to issuedirections.

3Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

6.The services of any Medical Officer or any otherofficer or employee of the Department of Health or anyUniversity or any medical practitioner or any othercompetent person engaged in a similar service, may beused, subject to the approval of the Director-General ofHealth Service or other relevant authority as the case maybe, to assist in the treatment and care of drug dependantpersons at Treatment Centres designated or licensed underthis Act. Regulations may be made specifying the termsand conditions on which such assistance shall be rendered.

7.(1) The Minister shall appoint Assessment Panelsconsisting of not more than ten persons from amongst personswho have gained eminence or experience in the fields of lawor persons having experience or knowledge in the Fieldsof physiological or social problems connected with drugdependence.

(2) Assessment Panels consisting of not more than threeperson’s shall be nominated by the NDDCB whenever itbecomes necessary to —

(a)assess persons seeking admission in terms of thisAct, to Treatment Centres designated or licensedunder this Act ; or

(b)assess persons presently undergoing treatment fordrug dependence, and to evaluate futurerehabilitation programmes.

(3) The powers and functions of Assessment Panels shallbe as specified by regulation.

8.(1) The Minister may on the recommendation of theNDDCB, nominate one or more fit and proper persons to beofficial visitors to any Treatment Centre designated orlicensed under the provisions of this Act.

Use of servicesof Officers ofDepartment ofHealth, etc.

Appointment ofAssessmentPanels.

Appointment ofofficial visitors.

4Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

(2) Every visitor so appointed shall unless he ceases tohold office earlier, serve in such capacity for a period oftwo years from the date of his appointment. Every suchvisitor may at all times enter any such Treatment Centreand to make such inquiries or examination therein as tohim shall appear necessary. It shall be the duty of suchvisitors to visit such Treatment Centres from time to timeand submit periodic reports to the NDDCB in accordancewith such guidelines or regulations as may be issued inthis regard.

PART II

VOLUNTARY ADMISSION TO A TREATMENT CENTRE

9.(1) A person voluntarily seeking treatment for drugdependence may apply for admission to a Treatment Centre.In case of a minor, the parents or guardian may apply foradmission on behalf of the minor. Admission of such aperson to a Treatment Center shall be decided on a case-by-case basis subject to assessment by an Assessment Panel.

(2) Upon admission, such person may continue as an inmateof a Treatment Centre, until the Assessment Panel and themedical officer in charge of the Treatment Centre are ofopinion that he may be discharged as he has successfullycompleted the course of treatment undertaken. Conditionsfor discharge shall be determined by the rules of eachTreatment Centre.

PART III

COMPULSORY ADMISSION TO A TREATMENT CENTRE

10.(1) Where an Officer-in-Charge of a Police Stationreceives information that any person is a habitual user ofdangerous drugs and has since become a drug dependantperson, he shall forthwith take such steps as may be necessaryto cause such person to be examined by a GovernmentMedical Officer. The Government Medical Officer shallthereupon submit a report to the police officer who

Voluntaryadmissions.

Compulsoryadmission to aTreatmentCentre.

5Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

referred the drug dependant person to him or any otherofficer attached to the relevant Police Station, setting outthe results of such examination. The report shall containreasons for his observations that such person is or is not,a drug dependant person and details as to the extent ofsuch person’s drug dependency. Where the report issubmitted to an officer who is not the Officer-in-Charge,such police officer shall report the fact of such informationto the Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station.

(2) If according to the report of the Government MedicalOfficer the person examined by him is a drug dependantperson, the Officer-in-Charge of the Police Station shallproduce such person or cause such person to be produced,before a Magistrate who shall take action in accordance withthe following provisions of this section.

(3) A Magistrate before whom a person produced upon thecompletion of the procedure set out in subsection (1) and (2),shall make Order that such person be sent for compulsorytreatment and rehabilitation at any Treatment Centredesignated or licensed under this Act, as may be determinedby such Magistrate.

(4) Where a person is convicted and sentenced for anyoffence under the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous DrugsOrdinance (Chapter 214) and the Court convicting such personis satisfied by evidence on oath led before such Court thatsuch person is a drug dependant person, the Court may,commit the person so convicted to a Treatment Centre for suchperiod of time as may be determined by Court taking in toconsideration the degree of dependence of such person. Suchperiod of time may be extended on application made by theDirector of the Treatment Centre to which such person iscommitted. The circumstances on which the extension isrequested should be sufficient in the opinion of the Courtto necessitate such extension :

Provided however, the Court may consider the periodof treatment as part of the sentence imposed.

6Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

(5) Where a person is committed for treatment undersubsection (4) the Commissioner of Prisons shall afterconsultation with the Director of the Treatment Centre takesuch steps as are necessary to transfer such person from theprison to the Centre to undergo treatment for such period asdetermined by Court.

(6) Any person admitted to a Treatment Centre under thissection, shall from time to time be subject to assessmentby an Assessment Panel appointed under section 7.

11.(1) Any person admitted to a Treatment Centreunder the preceding provisions of this Act may be releasedfrom such Centres on the recommendation of the Directorof the Treatment Centre after consultation with theAssessment Panel and subject to any terms and conditionswhich may be imposed by the NDDCB.

(2) The Court may in the case of a person detained at aTreatment Centre by virtue of an Order of Court, make Orderfor the release of such person upon the recommendation,after consultation with the Assessment Panel, of the Directorof the Treatment Centre to which a drug dependant personhas been committed, being submitted to Court. The Orderof Court may be subject to such conditions as the Courtmay, where necessary, specify.

PART IV

GENERAL

12.The Minister may on the advice of the NDDCB byOrder published in the Gazette close any Treatment Centredesignated or licensed under the provisions of the Act if itappears that such Centre is mismanaged or that it hasbreached any requirement imposed by the Act or anydirectives issued thereunder.

Release ofpersons fromCentres.

Closure ofTreatmentCentres.

7Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

13.(1) A medical practitioner who signs a medicalcertificate supporting any application or committal to bemade under this Act or for any other purpose provided in thisAct shall specify therein, the facts upon which he has formedhis opinion that the person to whom the certificate relates isa drug dependant person. He shall also set out in detailthe circumstances as perceived by him, and the factscommunicated to him by others.

(2) No Order shall be made by a Magistrate under this Actupon a certificate which purports to be founded only uponfacts communicated by others.

14.Any person who without authority introduces orattempts to introduce into any Treatment Centre, or suppliesor attempts to supply any persons in a Treatment Centre with,a dangerous drug or any unauthorized article shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act.

15.No action shall lie against any person for anythingdone or omitted to be done by him in the course ofperforming his duties in good faith under this Act or in carryingout any recommendations or Order given or purported tohave been given to him in accordance with the provisions ofthis Act.

16.(1) No person shall except with the permission ofthe presiding Judge, publish a report of any proceedings underthis Act.

(2) All records pertaining to a drug dependant person inthe custody of a Treatment Centre shall be confidential andshall not be released except on an Order of Court, or inconnection with an investigation in respect of thecommission of a serious offence within the Centre.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

MedicalPractitioner tospecify basis ofopinion.

Supply of drugs& c,.

Indemnity.

Proceedings notto be publishedwithoutpermission andconfidentiality ofrecords.

8Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

17.Any person employed in a Treatment Centre whowithout reasonable cause strikes, wounds, ill-treats orwilfully neglects any person receiving treatment thereinshall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

18.Any persons who obstructs or attempts to obstructany person employed in a Treatment Centre in the performanceof his duties under the Act, shall be guilty of an offence underthis Act.

19.(1) Where any person receiving treatment in aTreatment Centre designated or licensed under this Actescapes from the Centre he may be apprehended by anyPolice Officer or any officer appointed under this Act andreturned to the Treatment Centre.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person employed in aTreatment Centre to preserve order and discipline among thepersons detained in the Centre and for such purpose it shallbe lawful for a such person to use all such means, includingsuch degree of force, as may reasonably be necessary tocompel obedience to any lawful directions given by him.

20.Any person who commits an offence falling undersection 14, subsection (2) of section 16, section 17 and section18 of this Act, shall after trial by a Magistrate be punishedwith a fine not exceeding rupees five thousand orimprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingeighteen months, or to both.

21.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out and giving effect to a principles andprovisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1) the Minister maymake regulations—

(a)setting out the procedure for the issue of licensesunder this Act;

Striking personsunder treatment.

Obstruction ofemployees anoffence.

Apprehension ofpersonsescaping.

Penalty.

Regulations.

9Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment andRehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007

(b)the requirements which Treatment Centres licensedor designated in terms of this Act should conform;

(c)the records to be maintained at such TreatmentCentres;

(d) any other matter which is required to give effect tothe objectives of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by, the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by, the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof disapproval but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is sodisapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

22.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

23.In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires—

“dangerous drug” means any drug falling within theThird Schedule to the Poisons, Opium andDangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218) orincluded in any law enacted in its place ;

“drug dependant person” means a person to whom thisAct applies ;

“National Dangerous Drugs Control Board (NDDCB)”means the National Dangerous Drugs Control Boardestablished by the National Dangerous DrugsControl Board Act, No. 10 of 1984.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 befor 15th December each year in respect of the year following.