==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2027$1 - 2017 cQ,s ui 10 jeks i`ÿod - 2017'07'10No. 2027/1 - MONDAY, JULY 10, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lkN.B.- Gazette Extraordinary Series No. 2026/1 ends with No. 2026/58

1A G 25876 — 57 (07/2017)

INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 10 OF 2006

Notice

IT is hereby notified under Section 97 (1) (b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement foraffording relief from Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion, entered into on 06.10.2016 between the Government ofthe Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Finland is set out in the Schedulehereto, has been approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 10.12.2016.

DR. R. H. S. SAMARATHUNGA,Secretary,Ministry of Finance and Mass Media.Ministry of Finance and Mass Media,Colombo 01.07th July 2017.

AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRILANKA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND FOR THE AVOIDANCE OFDOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ONINCOME

THE Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Republic of Finland, desiringto conclude an agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes onincome,

have agreed as follows:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20172A

ARTICLE 1

Persons Covered

This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.

ARTICLE 2

Taxes Covered

1.This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its local authorities,irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.

2.There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income, or on elements of income, includingtaxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, as well as taxes on capital appreciation.

3.The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are:

(a)in Finland:

(i) the state income taxes (valtion tuloverot; de statliga inkomstskatterna);(ii) the corporate income tax (yhteisojen tulovero; inkomstskatten for samfund);(iii) the communal tax (kunnallisvero; kommunalskatten);(iv) the church tax (kirkollisvero;kyrkoskatten);(v) the tax withheld at source from interest (korkotulon lahdevero; kallskatten pa ranteinkomst); and(vi) the tax withheld at source from non residents' income (rajoitetusti verovelvollisen lahdevero; kallskatten forbegransat skattskyldig);

(hereinafter referred to as "Finnish tax");

(b)in Sri Lanka:

the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises entered into agreements with theBoard of Investment.

(hereinafter referred to as "Sri Lanka tax").

4.The agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes on income which are imposed after thedate of signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of theContracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes which have been made in their respective taxation laws.

ARTICEL 3

General Definitions

1.For the purposes of this agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:

(a)the term "Finland" means the Republic of Finland and, when used in a geographical sense, means the territory of theRepublic of Finland, and any area adjacent to the territorial waters of the Republic of Finland within which, underthe laws of Finland and in accordance with international law, the rights of Finland with respect to the exploration forand exploitation of the natural resources of the sea bed and its sub soil and of the superjacent waters may beexercised;

(b)the term "Sri Lanka" means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in theConstitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as theexclusive economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka exercises ormay hereafter exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international law and its nationallegislation ;

..

..

..

......

....

..

..

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20173A

(c) the term "Person" includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;

(d) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;

(e) the term "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean Finland and Sri Lanka as the context requires;

(f) the terms "enterprise of a Contracting State" and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively anenterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the otherContracting State;

(g) the term "national" in relation to a Contracting State, means;

(i) any individual possessing the nationality or citizenship of that Contracting State; and

(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in that ContractingState.;

(h) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a ContractingState, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;

(i) the term "competent authority" means:

(i) in Finland, the Ministry of Finance, its authorised representative or the authority which, by the Ministry ofFinance, is designated as competent authority;

(ii) in Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or an authorised representative of the CommissionerGeneral;

(j) the term "tax" means Sri Lankan tax or Finnish tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount which ispayable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Agreement applies or whichrepresents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes.

2.As regards the application of the Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, unlessthe context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the purposes of the taxesto which the Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing over a meaning given to theterm under other laws of that State.

Article 4

Residence

1.For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the laws ofthat State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of management, place of incorporation (registration)or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision, any statutory body or localauthority thereof. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of incomefrom sources in that State.

2.Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his statusshall be determined as follows:

(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he hasa permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with whichhis personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20174A

(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent homeavailable to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitualabode;

(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the Stateof which he is a national;

(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shallsettle the question by mutual agreement.

3.Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, a person other than an individual is a resident of bothContracting States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall determine by mutual agreement the State of whichthe person shall be deemed to be a resident for the purposes of this Agreement having regard to the person's place ofincorporation, the place of effective management and any other relevant factors.

Article 5

Permanent Establishment

1.For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business through whichthe business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.

2.The term "permanent establishment" includes especially:

a) a place of management;b) a branch;c) an office;d) a factory;e) a workshop; andf) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.

3.The term "permanent establishment" likewise encompasses:

a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a drilling rig or ship used for the exploration ordevelopment of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection therewith, but only where such site,project or activities continue for a period of more than 183 days within any twelve month period;

b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other personnelengaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only where activities of that nature continue within the ContractingState for a period or periods aggregating more than 183 days within any twelve month period.

4.Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed not toinclude:

a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;

b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storageor display;

c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processingby another enterprise;

d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or ofcollecting information, for the enterprise;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20175A

e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any otheractivity of a preparatory or auxiliary character;

f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub paragraphs(a) to e), provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this combination is of apreparatory or auxiliary character.

5.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status towhom paragraph 7 applies is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State, thatenterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in respect of anyactivities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:

a) has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless theactivities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed place ofbusiness, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of thatparagraph, or

b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned state a stock of goods or merchandise fromwhich he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.

6.Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprice of a contracting state shall, except inregard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects premiums inthe territory of that other state or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an independent statusto whom paragraph 7 applies.

7.An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting Statemerely because it carries on business in that other state through a broker, general commission agent or any other agent of anindependent status, where such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the activities ofsuch an agent are devoted wholly or principally on behalf of that enterprise, he shall not be considered an agent of anindependent status within the meaning of this paragraph, if it is shown that the transactions between the agent and theenterprise were not made under arm's length conditions.

8.The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is aresident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanentestablishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.

Article 6

Income from Immovable Property

1.Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture orforestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.

2.The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which theproperty in question is situated. The term "immovable property" shall in any case include buildings, property accessory toimmovable property, livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general lawrespecting landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration forthe working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships, boats and aircraft shall notbe regarded as immovable property.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20176A

3.The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form ofimmovable property.

4.Where the ownership of shares or other corporate rights in a company entitles the owner of such shares or corporaterights to the enjoyment of immovable property held by the company, the income from the direct use, letting, or use in any otherform of such right to enjoyment may be taxed in the Contracting State in which the immovable property is situated.

5.The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and toincome from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.

Article 7

Business Profits

1.The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries onbusiness in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries onbusiness as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributableto that permanent establishment.

2.Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the otherContracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be attributed tothat permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterpriseengaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with theenterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.

3.In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses which are incurredfor the purposes of the business of the permanent establishment including executive and general administrative expensesso incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere. However, no such deductionshall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by thepermanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similarpayments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for specific services performed or formanagement, or except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent establishment.Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged(otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses), by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterpriseor any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, orby way of commission for specific services performed or for management or except in the case of a banking enterprise byway of interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.

4.In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanentestablishment on the basis of an apportiontment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraph2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may becustomary; the method of apportionments adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with theprinciples contained in this Article.

5.No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent establishmentof goods or merchandise for the enterprise.

6.For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall bedetermined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20177A

7.Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then theprovisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

Article 8

Shipping and Air Transport

1.Profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in whichthe enterprise is a resident.

2.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, profits derived in a Contracting State by an enterprise of the otherContracting State from the operation of ships in international traffic may be taxed in the first-mentioned State, but the tax socharged shall be reduced by an amount equal to 50 per cent thereof.

3.The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or aninternational operating agency, but only to so much of the profits so derived as is attributable to the participant in proportionto its share in the joint operation.

Article 9

Associated Enterprises

1.Where

(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of anenterprise of the other Contracting State, or

(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a ContractingState and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,

and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial relations whichdiffer from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which would, but for thoseconditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have not so accrued, may be includedin the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.

2.Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that state-and taxes accordingly - profits on which anenterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so included are profitswhich would have accrued to the enterprise of the first mentioned State if the conditions made between the two enterprises hadbeen those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other State shall make an appropriateadjustment to the amount of tax charged therein on those profits, where that other State considers the adjustment justified. Indetermining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent authoritiesof the Contracting States shall if neccessary consult each other.

Article 10

Dividends

1.Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State maybe taxed in that other State.

2.However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is aresident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the otherContracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20178A

(a) 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company (other than a partnership)which holds directly at least 25 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends;

(b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.

This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are paid.

3.The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares, or other rights, not being debt claims, participatingin profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income fromshares by the Laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.

4.The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of aContracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident,through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services, from afixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with suchpermanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.

5.Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other ContractingState, that other state may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends arepaid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectivelyconnected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's undistributedprofits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist whollyor partly of profits or income arising in such other State.

Article 11

Interest

1.Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that OtherState.

2.However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of thatState, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall notexceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.

3.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the otherContracting State who is the beneficial owner thereof shall be taxable only in that other State if such interest is paid:

(a)to the Government of the other Contracting State , including any local authority thereof, the Central Bank or anyagency or instrumentality (including a financial institution) wholly or mainly owned by that Government;

(b)to a resident of the other Contracting State in connection with any loan or credit guaranteed by the Government ofthe other State, including any local authority thereof, the Central Bank or any agency or instrumentality (includinga financial institution) owned or controlled by that Government.

4.The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt claims of every kind, whether or not secured bymortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from Governmentsecurities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds ordebentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.

5.The provisions of Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of aContracting State , carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanentestablishment situated therein, or performs in that other state independent personal services from fixed base situated

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20179A

therein, and the debt claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishmentor fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.

6.Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however, theperson paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanentestablishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and suchinterest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State inwhich the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.

7.Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and someother person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount whichwould have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions ofthis Article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxableaccording to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.

Article 12Royalties

1.Royalties arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that otherstate.

2.However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise, and according to the laws of thatstate, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall notexceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the royalties.

3.The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any knid received as a consideration for the use of, or theright to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work including cinematograph films, and films or tapes for televisionor radio broadcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or for the use of, or the right touse, industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.

4.The provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties being a resident of aContracting state, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the royalties arise, through a permanentestablishment situated therein, or performs in that other state independent personal services from a fixed base situatedtherein, and the right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanentestablishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.

5.Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that state. Where, however, theperson paying such royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State permanentestablishment or a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such royalties areborne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the State in which thepermanent establishment or fixed base is situated.

6.Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them and someother person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid, exceeds theamount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, theprovisions of this Article shall apply only to the last mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shallremain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.

Article 13Capital Gains

1.Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in paragraph2 of Article 6 and situated in the other Contracting state may be taxed in that other state.

2.Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares or other corporate rights in a companyof whose assets more than one - half consists of immovable property situated in the other Contracting State may be taxedin that other State.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201710A

3.Gains from the alientation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishmentwhich an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a fixedbase available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independentpersonal services, including such gains from the alientation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the wholeenterprise) or of such a fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.

4.Gains derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the alientation of ships or aircraft operated in internationaltraffic or movable property pertaining to the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that state.

5.Gains from the alientation of any property other than that referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Article, shall betaxable only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.

Article 14

Independent Personal Services

1.Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional servicesor other independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following circumstanceswhen such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:

(a)If he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing hisactivities; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other state;or

(b)If his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much ofthe income as is derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State.

2.The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teachingactivities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.

Article 15

Dependent Personal Services

1.Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a resident ofa Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised inthe other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived therefrom may be taxed inthat other state.

2.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a contracting State in respect ofan employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first mentioned State if:

(a)the recipient is present in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 183 days within anytwelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and

(b)the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and

(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the otherState.

3. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employmentexercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic by an enterprise of a Contracting State, may be taxed inthat State.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201711A

Article 16

Directors' Fees

Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member of theboard of directors or any other similar organ of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxedin that other State.

Article 17

Artistes and Sportspersons

1.Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15 income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an entertainer,such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personal activitiesas such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.

2.Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as suchaccrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the provisionsof Articles 7, 14 and 15 be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or sportsperson areexercised.

3.The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to income derived from activities exercised in a Contracting Stateby an entertainer or a sportsperson if the visit to that State is wholly or mainly supported by public funds of the otherContracting State or a political sub-division or a local authority thereof. In such case, the income shall be taxable inaccordance with the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14 or Article 15, as the case may be.

Article 18

Pensions, Annuities and Socail Security Payments

1.Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration in consideration of pastemployment paid to a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.

2.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, and subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions paidand other benefits, whether periodic or lump sum compensation, awarded under the social security legislation of a ContractingState or under any public scheme organised by a Contracting State for social welfare purposes, or any annuity arising in aContracting State, may be taxed in that State.

3.The term "annuity" as used in this Article means a stated sum payable periodically to an individual at stated times duringhis life, or during a specified or ascertainable period of time, under an obligation to make the payments in return foradequate and full consideration in money or money's worth.

Article 19

Government Service

1.(a)Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision, statutory bodyor a local authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State, subdivision, body orauthority shall be taxable only in that State.

(b)However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State ifthe services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who:

(i) is a national of that State; or

(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201712A

2.(a)Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pension and other similar remuneration paid by, or out of fundscreated by, a Contracting State , a political subdivision, a statutory body or a local authority thereof to an individualin respect of services rendered to that State, subdivision, body or authority shall be taxable only in that State.

(b)However, such pension and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State if theindividual is a resident of, and a national of, that State.

3.The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages, pensions and other similar remuneration inrespect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State , political subdivision, astatutory body or a local authority thereof.

Article 20

Students and Trainees

1.Payments which a student, an apprentice or a business, technical, agricultural or forestry trainee, who is or wasimmediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education,or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.

2.A student at a university or other institution for higher education in a Contracting State, or an apprentice or business,technical, agricultural or forestry trainee, who is or was immediately before visiting the other Contracting State a residentof the first-mentioned State and who is present in the other Contracting State for a continuous period not exceeding 183days, shall not be taxed in that other State in respect of remuneration for services rendered in that State, provided that theservices are in connection with his studies or training and the remuneration constitutes earnings necessary for hismaintenance.

Article 21

Other Income

1.Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of thisAgreement shall be taxable only in that State.

2.The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined inparagraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of Contracting State, carries on business in theother Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independentpersonal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid iseffectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article14, as the case may be, shall apply.

3.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealtwith in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in the otherState.

Article 22

Limitation of Benefits

1.A person that is a resident of a Contracting State and derives income from the other Contracting State shall not beentitled to relief from taxation otherwise provided for in this Agreement if it was the main purpose or one of the mainpurposes of any person concerned with the creation or arrangement of such items of income to take advantage of theprovisions of this Agreement.

2.In making a determination under paragraphs 1, the appropriate competent authority or authorities shall be entitled toconsider, among other factors, the amount and nature of the income, circumstances in which the income was derived, thestated intention of the parties to the transaction, and the identity and residence of the person who in law or in fact, directlyor indirectly, control or beneficially own (i) the income or (ii) the persons who are resident(s) of the Contracting State(s)and who are concerned with the payment or receipt of such income.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201713A

Article 23

Elimination of Double Taxation

1.The laws in force in either of the Contracting States shall continue to govern the taxation of income in the respectiveContracting States. When income is subject to tax in both Contracting States, relief from double taxation shall be given inaccordance with the following paragraphs of this Article.

2.Subject to the provisions of Finnish law regarding the elimination of international double taxation (which shall notaffect the general principle hereof), double taxation shall be eliminated in Finland as follows:

(a) Where a resident of Finland derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, may betaxed in Sri Lanka, Finland shall, subject to the provisions of sub paragraph b, allow as a deduction from the finnishtax of that person, an amount equal to the Sri Lanka tax paid under Sri Lanka law and in accordance with theAgreement, as computed by reference to the same income by reference to which the Finnish tax is computed.

(b) Dividends paid by a company being a resident of Sri Lanka to a Company which is a resident of Finland and whichcontrols directly at least 10 per cent of the voting power in the company paying the dividends shall be exempt fromFinnish tax.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, an individual who is a resident of Sri Lanka and underFinnish taxation law with respect to the Finnish taxes referred to in Article 2 also is regarded as resident inFinland may be taxed in Finland. However, Finland shall allow any Sri Lanka tax paid on income as a deductionfrom Finnish tax in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (a). The provisions of this paragraph shallapply only to nationals of Finland.

3.Where a resident of Sri Lanka derives income from Finland, which in accordance with the provisions of this Agreementmay be taxed in Finland, the amount of Finnish tax payable in respect of that income, shall be allowed as credit against theSri Lanka tax imposed on that resident in respect of that income. The credit shall not, however, exceed that part of the SriLanka tax which is attributable to such income.

4.Where in accordance with any provision of the Agreement income derived by a resident of a Contracting State isexempt from tax in that State, that State may nevertheless, in calculating the amount of tax on the remaining income ofsuch person, take into account the exempted income.

Article 24

Non - discrimination

1.Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any requirementconnected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which nationalsof that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected. This provisionshall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of theContracting States.

2.The taxation on a permanent establisment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting Stateshall not be less favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other State carrying onthe same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of the otherContracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil status or familyresponsibilities which it grants to its own residents.

3.Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11,or Paragraph 6 of Article 12, apply,interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting State to a resident of the other ContractingState shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions asif they had been paid to a resident of the first mentioned State.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201714A

4.Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly,by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first mentioned State to any taxationor any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirementsto which other similar enterprises of the first mentioned State are or may be subjected.

5.The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind anddescription.

Article 25

Mutual Agreement Procedure1.Where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in taxationnot in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the domestic lawof those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident or, if his casecomes under paragraph 1 of Article 24, to that of the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must be presentedwithin three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the provisions of theAgreement.

2.The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to arriveat a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other ContractingState, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any agreement reached shallbe implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.

3.The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties ordoubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the eliminationof double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.

4.The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose ofreaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.

Article 26

Exchange of Information1.The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant forcarrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforcement of the domestic law concerning taxesof every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local authorities,insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange of information is not restricted byArticles 1 and 2.

2.Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner asinformation obtained under the domesctic law of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (includingcourts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of the enforcement or prosecution in respectof, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such personsor authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedingor in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, information received by a Contracting State may be used for otherpurposes, when such information may be used for such other purposes under the laws of both States and the competentauthority of the supplying State authorises such use.

3.In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the obligation :

(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the otherContracting State ;

(b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration ofthat or of the other Contracting State ;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201715A

(c) to Supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secretor trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy (ordre public)

4.If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall useits information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not need suchinformation for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations ofparagraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply informationsolely because it has no domestic interest in such information.

5.In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply informationsolely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in an agency or afiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.

Article 27

Members of Diplomatic Missions and Consular Posts

Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under thegeneral rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.

Article 28

Entry into Force

1.The Governments of the Contracting States shall notify each other that the constitutional requirements for the entryinto force of this Agreement have been complied with.

2.The Agreement shall enter into force thirty days after the date of the later of the notifications referred to in paragraph1 and its provisions shall have effect :

(a) in Finland :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on income derived on or after 1st January in the calendar year nextfollowing the year in which the Agreement enters into force ;

(ii) in respect of other taxes on income, for taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or afer 1st januaryin the calendar year next following the year in which the Agreement enters into force ;

(b) In Sri Lanka :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after 1st April of the calendar yearnext following that in which the Agreement enters into force ;

(ii) in respect of taxes on income, for any fiscal year beginning on or after 1st April of the calendar year nextfollowing that in which the Agreement enters into force.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.201716A

3.The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Finland and Government of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of Double Taxation and prevention of Tax Evasion with respect to Taxes onincome and on Capital, signed at Helsinki on 18th May 1982 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1982 Agreement”), shallcease to have effect with respect to taxes to which this Agreement applies in accordance with the provisions of paragraph2. The 1982 Agreement shall terminate on the last date on which it has efffect in accordance with the foregoing provisionof this paragraph.

Article 29

Termination

This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may terminatethe Agreement, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end of anycalender year followng after the period of five years from the date on which the Agreement enters into force. In suchevent, the Agreement shall cease to have effect:

(a) In Finland :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, on income derived on or after 1st January in the calendar year nextfollowing the year in which the notice is given;

(ii) in respect of other taxes on income for taxes chargeable for any tax year beginning on or after 1stJanuary in the Calendar year next following the year in which the notice is given;

(b) In Sri Lanka :

(i) in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after 1st April of the calendaryear next following that in which the notice is given;

(ii) in respect of taxes on income, for any fiscal year beginning on or after 1st April of the calendar yearnext following that in which the notice is given;

In witness whereof the undersigned, duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement.

Done in duplicate at Colombo this... day of... 2016, in the Sinhala, Finnish and English languages, all three texts being equallyauthentic. In the case of divergence of interpretation the English text shall prevail.

For the Government of theFor the Government of the,Democratic SocialistRepublic of Finland.Republic of Sri Lanka.

07 - 797

Art

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.