==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

w;s úfYI

wxl 1960$35 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 30 jeks nodod - 2016'03'30No.1960/35 - WEDNESDAY MARCH 30, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

By - Laws

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952

IN, terms of the powers vested in the Miniser in Charge of the Subject of Local Government of the North Central ProvincialCouncil, by Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Local Authorities (Standard By-Laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, being read withParagraph (a) of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, I,Sudasingha Mudiyanselage Peshala Jayarathna Bandara, as Chief Minister and Minister in Charge of the Subject of LocalGovernment of the North Central Provincial Council, hereby publish the Draft By-laws, which have been formulated by me.

While the Local Authorities have been given the power to formulate By-laws, containing provisions which areincluded in these Draft By-laws, the Local Authorities of the North Central Province are hereby vested with the power toadopt these Draft By-laws, subject to the provisions of Sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the above mentioned Local Authorities(Standard By-Laws) Act.

SUDASINGHE MUDIYANSELAGE PESHALA JAYARATHNA BANDARA, Chief Minister and Minister of Local Government,North Central Province.

Chief Minister's Office,North Central Provincial Council,Anuradhapura,23rd March, 2016.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20162A

CONTENTS

Sub No.Name of the BylawPage No.

01.By-laws relating to Regularizing, Supervising and Controlling the maintenance of Eating1-8Houses, Restaurants and Tea or Coffee Shops within the area of Jurisdiction of the PradeshiyaSabha;

02.By-laws relating to Regularizing, Supervising and Controlling the maintenance of Hotels within9-17the area of Jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

03.By-law to regularize, supervise and control public playgrounds in the area of jurisdiction of the18-14in the area of jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha

04.By-laws relating to Regularizind, Supervising and Controlling the maintenance of Lodgind Houses25-34within the Area of Jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha

05.By-laws relating to Bakeries within the area of Jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha35-41

06.By-laws relating to Advertisements within the Jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha42-51

07.By-laws relating to Parking of vehicles and traffic control in the Jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha52-58

08.By-laws relating to Sale of foods and beverages by Intinerant Vendors59 - 62

09.By-law relating to Regularization, Supervision and Control of the Sale of Fish, within the area of63-71the Pradeshiya Sabha

10.By-law relating to Regularization, Supervision and Control of the Sale of Meat, within the72-77jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

BY -LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZING, SUPERVISING AND CONTROLLING THEMAINTENANCE OF EATING HOUSES, RESTAURANTS AND TEA OR COFFEE SHOPS WITHINTHE AREA OF JURISDICTION OF THE ................................. PRADESHIYA SABHA

(1) These By-laws may be cited as By-laws relating to Regularizing, Supervising and Controllingthe maintenance of Eating Houses, Restaurants and Tea or Coffee Shops within the area of Jurisdiction ofthe .............................. Pradeshiya Sabha,

(2) These By-laws have been formulated with the objective of maintaining public health andsanitation within the area of Jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Section 03 of the PradeshiyaSabha Act.

(3) This By-law has been formulated as per the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-section 126 (ix) (h) to be read with Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

(4) Unless the provisions laid down in this By-law have not been fulfilled completely the Chairmanshall not issue a licence for an eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop of any sort :

1. The premises shall be kept in properly maintained condition.

2. While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 meters, bothsides of the walls shall have been plastered with mortar and applied with paints, in theevent of their being built with bricks, cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise, whenthe walls, except for those of the kitchen, have been built with wood or metal or with woodand metal, and have been painted on their surface, that shall be considered to be incompliance with this Provisions.

3. While every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a height of notless that 2.5 meters from the ground level.

4. Every room shall have windows that could be opened and the area of the opened windowsshall not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room ; however, where anyroom is air conditioned, this provision shall not apply.

5. The roof shall be made of some solid material.

6. The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for theeaves shall be at least 1.5 meters in width.

7. The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiled.

8. While dustbins shalls be placed to collect waste generated in the site, the dust bins keptat the kitchen shall have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent the entry of flies or otherkinds of insects.

9. Necessary arrangements to comply with the requirements, set out in By-laws 10 shall havebeen put in place in order to dispose of waste generated in the Premises.

10. Every table made use of at the kitchen of the premises -

(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with paints when they are built in wood,and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with polished non-opaquematerials or stainless and jointless metal sheets ;

(b) Shall have their legs painted when they are made of iron, steel or any other type ofmetal and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

Title of the By-law.

Objective.

Legal Provisionsfor theformulation ofthe By-law.

Functions to beperformed.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20164A

11. Every table made available for by the customers of the premises

(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with paints when they are built with wood,and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with a sheet of glass orpolished non-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets ;

(b) Shall have their legs painted when they are made of iron, steel or any other type ofmetal and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with a sheet of glassor polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

12. While a quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board onthe suitability of the water used in the premises for human consumption shall have beenobtained, this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six months. In theevent the water being supplied by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is usedat the premises, it shall be presumed that this certificate has been obtained.

13. In the event of the water used for the activities of the premises being kept in storage,sufficient safety measures shall be put in place to prevent pollution of the water that issotred.

14. A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used by hecustomers.

15. Separate lavatories and urinals shall have been provided for the use of the employees andthe customers on the basis of one each for every ten males and females.

16. The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have been built with bricks, cement blocks,cabook blocks or stainless metal sheets and the floor should have been plasetered withcement and finished off with cement or tiles. Moreover, when there are walls built withbricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks, they shall be finished off with cement or tiledand when they are bulit with stainless metal sheets, the surfaces shall have been painted.

17. A sufficient number of bathrooms shall have been built for the use of he persons employedat the premises and the prescriptions relevant to lavatories mentioned in paragraph (16)shall apply to the floors and walls of these bathrooms.

18. In the section assigned for the use fo the customers of the premises, wash basins made ofstainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and polished or made of bricks or cementblocks and tiled shall be made available.

19. A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water thatis disposed of from any section of the premises.

20. In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a drainage system, arrangements may bemade to divert waste water generated at the premises to the said drainage system in themanner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise action shall be taken to divertsuch waste water to a suction pit.

21. While general fire fighting instruments shall have been provided at the site electricallyoperated fire extinguishers shall have been made available if electricity supplies havebeen obtained to the site.

22. The section where tea, coffee to milk is prepared shall have been covered with a stainlessmetal sheet or with tiles or with any other type of non-opaque material.

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

(5) It is the duty of the license to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout in By-law 4 (20 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(6) The licensed premises shall be swept at least twice a day and the drains carryng waste watershall be cleaned and washed with watet at least twice a day.

(7) The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be cleaned at least twice a day anddisinfected and shall be maintained so as to prevent bad smell spreading.

(8) Every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation of food, for exhibition of food forsale and for the use of the customers in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean water before use andthe license shall ensure that they are cleanly washed after use as well.

(9) While action shall be taken to categorize all waste collected in each section of the licensedpremises according to the manner prescribed in By-law No. 10 and to put them immediately into a receptaclemade of non-opaque material, such waste shall b e removed from that site at least once a day or on a numberof occasiond of required. These receptacles shall be kept securely closed except when wastet is put intothen and waste is removed from them.

(10) (a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories -

(i) biodegradable waste ,

(ii) glass,

(iii) paper or paper based materials,

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(v) iron and other kinds of matel or parts of iron and other kinds of metal,

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process orbyproducts or other parts produced n the production line,(vii) Hazardous waste, and its shall be duty of the License to see there they are put inseparate containers or thanks put in place for the purpose.

(b) Provided that the waster put in containers or tanks having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sahba, the final disposal shall be done in themanner prescribed by the Chairman.

11. While every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kinds ofinsects, it is the duty of the license to ensure that the materials kept there for use in preparing food orbeverages and food or beverages prepapred are protected from pollution by the above animals.

12. While food that is served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands, a spoon, forkor any other instrument shall be used to serve food.

13. Any kind of adulterated milk shall not be kep or sold in any licensed premises. For the pusposeof this By-law, adulterated milk shall mean milk mixed with water or any other king of foreign matter ormatters, or cow's milk with less than 85 percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 35 percent milkfat or buffalo milk with less than 9 percent solid milk which is not far or with less than 7 percent milk fat.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20166A

14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply aprons to every employee that is engaged inpreparing food or beverages at the licensed premises and to ensure that the employees are wearing thesesafety materials when they are on duty.

15. All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushesto clean nails and soap or fluid soap.

16. It is the duty and responsibility of every licensee to obtain an annual license by submitting anapplication form given under Schedule 01 hereto that is issued by .................................. Pradeshiya Sabha.

Every licence issued under the provisions of these bylaws shall be valid up to 31 st December ofthe year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of these bylaws.

17. Unless a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained noperson shall maintain an eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop in the ............................... PradeshiyaSabha area.

18. The waste removed from the licensed premises shall not be dumped at any time on the groundof the site or at various places around the premises.

(a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skindisease has not elapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such adisease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering fromsuch a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage inservice in a licensed premises or as an assistant of any person engaged in service at sucha premises.

(b) Unless a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself oremploy anybody else in any form of duty at any licensed premise.

(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

20. No person shall smoke or chew betel leaves within the licensed premises.

21. The Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to collect an annual license fee that is stipulated underSection 149 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act for the running of any Eating Houses, Restaurants and Tea orCoffee Shops.

22. It shall be lawful to delegate the power that is vested with the Sabha to regulate, monitor andcontrol the activities of these bylaws to any of the officers of the Sabha by the Chairman or the Secretaryof the Sabha.

23. Every licence issued under the provisions of these bylaws shall be valid up to 31 sl ofDecember of the year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

24. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer of theprovisions of these bylaws shall mean any occasion when production activities of the premises are carriedon.25. While it shall be the duty of the licensee to co-operate with the Chairman to inspect thelicensed premises under any provision, no licensee shall interrupt any such inspection.

Acts to beavoided.

Charges andfees.

Delegatingpower

Period ofvalidity of tbelicence or thepermit.Inspectionprocedure andauthority.

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

Mechanism forcomplaints andremedies

26. In the event of the premises where any eating place, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop ismaintained under a licence issued under these bylaws fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of theprovisions set out in bylaw No.04 or contravenes the provisions of any of the bylaws set out in this part,the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessaryconditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

27. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kindof food prepared or kept for sale in any licensed premises, no licensee shall desist or prevent suchpurchase.

28. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 26 shall act in the manner prescribedin such notice before the date specified in the notice.

29. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 26 fails to act in accordancewith the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall belawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.

30. Any complaint may be submitted in writing or orally to the Chairman, Secretary or any authorizedofficer of the Sabha and such officer shall conduct a formal investigation and provide solutions.

31. In the event of the submission of any written explanation that is acceptable, the Chairman shallhave the power to extend the specified date mentioned in such notice. However, the period of suchextension shall not be more than 14 days.

32. It is an offence to violate anyone or a number of or all of the provisions in these bylaws.

33. Any person being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction for violating the orders inthese bylaws shall be liable to a fine set out in subsection 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.1 5 of 1987.In case any person who is subjected to such fine continues to repeat such offence or violation after beingconvicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to an additional fine set out in the aforesaidsub section.

34. In the bylaws in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms -

"Chairman" means the person holding the office of Chairman of the ........................ PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the ........................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Secretary" means the person holding the office of Secretary of the ......................... PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"restaurant or eating house" means a place where cooked rice and curries are prepared or storedor exhibited for sale and it shall also include a place where any type of prepared food or shorteat is prepared or stored or exhibited for sale.

"tea or coffee shop" means any place which is maintained for sale of tea or coffee with bakeryproducts or short eats.

"licensee" means any person who has obtained a license under the provisions mentioned in thesebylaws and may be the owner or the manager of or any person who is in charge of the licensedpremises during the particular period.

Violation ofbylaws.

Fines andPenalties.

Interpretationand definitions.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.20168A

"licensed premises" means any premises for the use of which a licence has been issued under theprovisions of any of these bylaws.

"authorized officer" means any of the officers of the ......................... Pradeshiya Sabha to whompower has been delegated for the particular purpose in writing by the Chairman.

"the appropriate time for inspection" means any occasion when the business or productionactivities of the premises are carried on.

SCHEDULE I

......................................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

APPLICATION FOR A BUSINESS LICENCE - YEAR 20..........

1. Name of the proprietor of the trade/business : ———— .

2. Private Address : ———— .

3. National Identity Card No : ———— .

4. Telephone Number : Mobile : ———— .Home : ———— .

5. Name of the Trade/Buniness : ———— .

6. Nature of the Trade/Business : ———— .

Details of the premises of the trade/business :

(a) Address : ———— .

(b) Name of the Street/Road : ———— .

(c) Assessment No. : ———— .

(d) Telephone No. : ———— .

7. No. of the Grama Niladhari Division in which the Trade/Business in run : ———— .Name of the Grama Niladhari Division : ———— .

8. If Business Name Registration has been obtained, the reference No. of the Registration : ———— .

9. Name of the Manager/Representative of the presmises in which the Trade/Business is run : ———— .

10. National Identity Card No. : ———— .

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

BY-LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZING, SUPERVISING AND CONTROLLING THEMAINTENANCE OF HOTELS WITHIN THE AREA OF JURISDICTION OF THE....................................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

(1) These bylaws may be cited as Bylaws relating to Regularizing, Supervising and Controlling themaintenance of Hotels within ..................................................... the area of Jurisdiction of the PradeshiyaSabha Area.

(2) These bylaws have been formulated with the objective of maintaining public health andsanitation within the area of Jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Section 03 of the PradeshiyaSabha Act.

(3) This bylaw has been formulated as per the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha underSubsection 126(ix) (h) to be read with Section l22 ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

(4) It is the duty and responsibility of the licensee to obtain an annual license by submitting anapplication form given in Schedule 0I hereto.

(5) Unless the provisions laid down in this bylaw have not been fttltilled eOlfll'lttel, the Cilaitiiiatisltall not issue a licence fut a hotel of any sort:

1. The premises shall be kept in properly maintained condition.

2. While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 meters, bothsides of the walls shall have been plastered with mortar and applied with paints, in theevent of their being built with bricks, cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise, whenthe walls, except for those of the kitchen, have been built with wood or metal or with woodand metal, and have been painted on their surface, that shall be considered to be incompliance with this provision.

3. While every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a height of notless than 2.5 meters from the ground level.

Title of the bylaw.

Legal provisionsfor theformulation ofthe bylaw.

Functions to beperformed.

Objective.

11.Telephone Nos. : ———— .

Mobile : ———— .Home : ———— .

The Chairman,.........................

I request that a Trade/Business licence be issued to me for year 20......... for the presmises in which the trade/Business described above is run. I do hereby agree to comply with the provisions in respect of the same.

.............................................Signature of applicant.

Date :

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201610A

4. Every room shall have windows that could be opened and the area of the opened windowsshall not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room; however, where anyroom is air conditioned, this provision shall not apply.

5. The roof shall be made of some solid material.

6. The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for theeaves shall be at least 1.5 meters in width.

7. The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiled.

8. While dustbins shall be placed to collect waste generated in the site, the dust bins kept atthe kitchen shall have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent the entry of flies or otherkinds of insects.

9. Necessary arrangements to comply with the requirements set out in By-Law No.l4 shallhave been put in place in order to dispose of waste generated in the premises.

10. Every table made use of at the kitchen of the premises -

(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with paints when they are built in wood,and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with polished non-opaquematerials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

(b) Shall have their legs painted when they are made of iron, steel or any other type ofmetal and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and joint less metal sheets.

11. Every table made available for use by the customers of the premises -

(a ) shall have their legs polished and applied with paints when they are built with wood,and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with a sheet of glass orpolished non-opaque materials or stainless and joint less metal sheets.

(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made of iron, steel or any other type ofmetal and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with a sheet of glassor polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

12. While a quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board onthe suitability of the water used in the premises for human consumption shall have beenobtained, this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six months. In theevent the water being supplied by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is usedat the premises, it shall be presumed that this certificate has been obtained.

13. In the event of the water used for the activities of the premises being kept in storage,sufficient safety measures shall be put in place to prevent pollution of the water that isstored.

14. A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used by thecustomers.

15. Separate lavatories and urinals shall have been provided for the use of the employees andthe customers on the basis of one each for every ten males and females.

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

16. The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have been built with bricks, cement blocks,cabook blocks or stainless metal sheets and the floor should have been plastered withcement and finished off with cement or tiled. Moreover, when there are walls built withbricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks, they shall be finished off with cement or tiledand when they are built with stainless metal sheets, the surfaces shall have been painted.

17. A sufficient number of bathrooms shall have been built for the use of the persons employedat the premises and the prescriptions relevant to lavatories mentioned in paragraph (16)shall apply to the floors and walls of these bathrooms.

18. In the section assigned for the use of the customers of the premises, washbasins made ofstainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and polished or made of bricks or cementblocks and tiled shall be made available.

19. A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water thatis disposed of from any section of the premises.

20. In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a drainage system, arrangements may bemade to divert waste water generated at the premises to the said drainage system in themanner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabba Otherwise action shall be taken to divert suchwaste water to a suction pit.

21. While general fire fighting instruments shall have been provided at the site electricallyoperated fire extinguishers shall have been made available if electricity supplies havebeen obtained to the site.

22. The section where tea, coffee or milk is prepared shall have been covered with a stainlessmetal sheet or with tiles or with any other type of non-opaque material.

23. The space allotted for each person for sleeping in the bedrooms set apart for the customersand the employees of the hotel shall not be less than at least four square meters.

(6) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout in bylaw 5 shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

(7) The licensed premises shall be swept at least twice a day and the drains carrying waste watershall be cleaned and washed with water at least twice a day.

(8) While every licensed premises shall maintain a register to note the name, address and identityof each person coming to stay overnight in the licensed premises, it shall be the duty of the licensee toallow inspection of that register when it is so requested by the Chairman, Authorized officer or any PoliceOfficer.(9) Unless the bed sheets, pillow cases, sheets, towels and any other clothes used by anycustomer occupying any bedroom of the licensed premises are washed and cleaned after being used byhim no other customer shall be allowed to use them and the windows in that room shall have being left fullyopen for at least four hours before it is allowed to be used by any subsequent customer.

(10) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that every room, staircase, veranda, drains andthe entire area of the licensed premises are swept before noon every day.

(11) The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be cleaned at least twice a day anddisinfected and shall be maintained so as to prevent bad smell spreading. However, the cleaning of lavatoriesonce a day in any room where customers are lodging is considered sufficient.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201612A

(12) Every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation of food, for exhibition of foodfor sale and for the use of the customers in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean water before useand the licensee shall ensure that they are cleanly washed after use as well.

(13) While action shall be taken to categorize all waste collected in each section of the licensedpremises according to the manner prescribed in bylaw No.14 and to put them immediately into a receptaclemade of non-opaque material, such waste shall be removed from that site at least once a day or on a numberof occasions if required. These receptacles shall be kept securely closed except when waste is put intothem and waste is removed from them.

(14)(a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories - .

(i) biodegradable waste,

(ii) glass,

(iii) paper or paper based materials,

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal,

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process orbyproducts or other parts produced in the production line,

(vii) dangerous waste,

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separatecontainers or tanks put in place for that purpose.

(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in themanner set out in paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the programme of wastemanagement launched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done inthe manner prescribed by the Chairman.

15. While every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects,it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that the materials kept there for use in preparing food or beveragesand food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above animals.

16. While food that is served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands, a spoon, forkor any other instrument shall be used to serve food.

17. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply aprons to every employee that is engaged inpreparing food or beverages at the licensed premises and to ensure that the employees are wearing thesesafety materials when they are on duty.

18. All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushesto clean nails and soap or fluid soap.

19. Unless a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained, noperson shall maintain a hotel in the Pradeshiya Sabha area.

20. No person shall be allowed to sleep in any other room than those which have been specificallydeclared as bedrooms in the licensed premises.

21. The licensee shall not allow to sleep in any bedroom a number of persons not commensuratewith the minimum space specified in paragraph 23 of bylaw No.5.

Acts to beavoided.

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

22. Keeping any type of animal in any bedroom, place where food is prepared or place reserved forpartaking food in the licensed premises shall not be done.

23. The waste removed from the licensed premises shall not be dumped at any time on the groundof the site or at various places around the premises.

24. Any kind of adulterated milk shall not be kept or sold in any licensed premises. For the purposeof this bylaw, adulterated milk shall mean milk mixed with water or any other kind of foreign matter ormatters, or cow's milk with less than 85 percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 35 percent milkfat or buffalo milk with less than 9 percent solid milk which is not fat or with less than 7 percent milk fat.

25.

(a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skindisease has not elapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such adisease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering fromsuch a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage inservice in a licensed premises or as an assistant of any person engaged in service at sucha premises.

(b) Unless a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself oremploy anybody else in any form of duty at any licensed premise.

(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year.

26. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kindof food prepared or kept for sale in any licensed premises, no licensee shall desist or prevent suchpurchase.

27. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer of theprovisions of these bylaws shall mean any occasion when production activities of the premises are carriedon.

28. In the event of the premises where any hotel is maintained under a licence issued under thesebylaws fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in bylaw No.05 or contravenesthe provisions of any of the bylaws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice tothe said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to theprescribed position before a specified date

29. The Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to collect an annual license fee that is stipulated underSection 149 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act for the running of any hotel.

30. It shall be lawful to delegate the power to regulate the activities of these bylaws to any of theofficers of the Sabha by the Chairman or the Secretary of the Sabha.

31. Every licence issued under the provisions of these bylaws shall be valid up to 31 st ofDecember of the year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

32. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer of theprovisions of these bylaws shall mean any occasion when production activities of the premises are carriedon.

Role of the localgovernmentbody.

Charges andfees.

Delegatingpower.

Period ofvalidity of thelicence or thepermit.

Inspectionprocedure andauthority.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201614A

33. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 28 shall act in the manner prescribedin such notice before the date specified in the notice. In the event of the submission of any writtenexplanation that is acceptable, the Chairman shall have the power to extend the specified date mentionedin such notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than 14 days.

34. Any complaint may be submitted in writing or orally to the Chairman, Secretary or any authorizedofficer of the Sabha and such officer shall conduct a formal investigation and provide solutions.

35. It is an offence to violate anyone or a number of or all of the provisions in these bylaws.

36. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 28 fails to act in accordancewith the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall belawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.

37. Any person being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction for violating the orders inthese bylaws shall be liable to a fine set out in subsection 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987. Incase any person who is subjected to such fine continues to repeat such offence or violation after beingconvicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to an additional fine set out in the aforesaidsub section.

38. In the bylaws in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms -

"Chairman" means the person holding the office of Chairman of the ........................PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"Secretary" means the person holding the office of Secretary of the ............................. PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the ............................ Pradeshiya Sabha.

"hotel" means a place where cooked rice and curries are prepared or stored or exhibited for sale,or a place where any type of prepared food or short eat is prepared or stored or exhibited forsale or a place where accommodation facilities are provided to customers together with theaforesaid activities.

"Tea or coffee shop" means any place which is maintained for sale of tea or coffee with bakeryproducts or short eats.

"Licensee" -means any person who has obtained a license under the provisions mentioned inthese bylaws and may be the owner or the manager of or any person who is in charge of thelicensed premises during the particular period.

"licensed premises" means any premises for the use of which a licence has been issued under theprovisions of any of these bylaws.

"authorized officer" means any of the officers of the ......................... Pradeshiya Sabha to whompower has been delegated for the particular purpose in writing by the Chairman.

"the appropriate time for inspection" means any occasion when the business or productionactivities of the premises are carried on.

Mechanismforcomplaintsand remedies.

Violation ofbylaws.

Fines andPenalties.

Interpretationand definitions.

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

SCHEDULE

......................................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

APPLICATION FOR A BUSINESS LICENCE - YEAR 20..........

1. Name of the proprietor of the trade/business : ———— .

2. Private Address : ———— .

3. National Identity Clard No : ———— .

4. Telephone Number : Mobile : ———— .Home : ———— .

5. Name of the Trade/Buniness : ———— .

6. Nature of the Trade/Business : ———— .

Details of the premises of the trade/business :

(a) Address : ———— .

(b) Name of the Street/Road : ———— .

(c) Assessment No. : ———— .

(d) Telephone No. : ———— .

7. No. of the Grama Niladhari Division in which the Trade/Business in run : ———— .Name of the Grama Niladhari Division : ———— .

8. If Business Name Registration has been obtained, the reference No. of the Registration : ———— .

9. Name of the Manager/Representative of the presmises in which the Trade/Business is run : ———— .

10. National Identity Card No. : ———— .11. Telephone Nos. : ———— .

Mobile : ———— .Home : ———— .

The Chairman, .........................

I request that a Trade/Business licence be issued to me for year 20......... for the presmises in which the trade/Business described above is run. I do hereby agree to comply with the provisions in respect of the same.

.............................................Signature of applicant.

Date :

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201616A

BY-LAWS TO REGULARIZE, SUPERVISE AND CONTROL PUBLIC PLAY GROUNDS IN THEAREA OF JURISDICTION OF THE .............................. PRADESHIYA SABHA

1. These By-laws are cited as the By-laws for the regularization, control and supervision of thepublic playgrounds in the area of jurisdiction of the ......................................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

2.The objective of these By-laws is to provide playground facilities for the community developmentof the people living in the area of jurisdiction of the ............................... Pradeshiya Sabha , under section 3of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

3.These By-laws have been formulated under the powers vested in the sub-clause 126 (xiv) thatmust be read with clause No. 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

4.Any person who intends to obtain a permit to use a playground owned by the PradeshiyaSabha, should submit an application in accordance with the specimen application given in the first scheduleof the By-Laws in this Section.

5.Application for reservation of a playground shall be done at least three days before thereservation. Any person could present the application for reservation and such reservation shall be donein accordance with the provisions cited in the By-law No.7.

6.

(a) No person shall damage or cause to be damaged any of the playgrounds owned by thePradeshiya Sabha and shall not enter their cattle, pigs, horses, ponies, colts or dogs intosuch premises. Further, no vehicle shall drive into a playground without the permission ofthe Chairman.

(b) No person shall behave in an indecent manner, or be under intoxication and cause anyharm to other parties.

7.The Chairman shall not issue a permit to any person who submits an application under By-LawNo.4, to use any playground owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha, unless the fulfills the following requirements.

(a) All applications for the usage of a playground must be considered on the first come - firstserve basis. However, a particular sport or a matter could be given priority.

(b) Permit shall only be issued after the reservation fee and deposit determined from time totime by the Pradeshiya Sabha under the specified format of fees in the second scheduleare paid.

8. If any applicant wants to cancel his reservation made according to the provisions of these By-laws, the Chairman could allow it subject to the following conditions.

(a) If such cancellation is submitted,

(i) three months prior to the date of reservation, Five percent of the paid amount,

(ii) two months prior to the date of reservation, Ten percent of the paid amount,

(iii) one month prior to the date of reservation, Fifteen per cent of the paid amount,

(iv) fifteen days prior to the date of reservation, Twenty five percent of the paid amount,

Title of the By-law.

Objective.

Legal provisionsFor theFormulation ofBy-laws.

Functions.

Things thatshould not bedone.

Functions of theLocal Authority.

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

(v) seven days prior to the date of reservation, Fifty per cent of the paid amount

(vi) three days prior to the date of reservation, Seventy five per cent of the paid amount,must be withheld in the Pradeshiya Sabha fund

(b) If the cancellation is demanded within three days of the date of reservation, the paidamount shall not be refunded.(c) If any reservation is cancelled, the applicant has the right to claim for the whole amount ofdeposit paid for the reservation.(d) No person shall use the playground so reserved other than for the purpose of suchreservation.

(e) the permit for the reservation is not transferable for any reason whatsoever.

9. It is the duty of the Chairman to notify in writing the reason for not permitting the reservationto the applicant within the day of application itself.

10. It is the duty of the Chairman to allow for playing or practising on any day when the playgroundis not reserved under the provision of these By-laws.

11. Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to charge a fee as published in the gazette notification passedby the council, for the maintenance of any playground.

12. Out of the deposit made for the reservation of a playground for any purpose, at the PradeshiyaSabha, any balance amount only,

(a) after having charged for any damage to the playground or part of it ;

(b) charging any extra amount for the usage of the playground beyond the reserved period;

shall be refunded to the applicant

19. Any person found guilty by a Court of Law with the due jurisdiction for violating these By-Laws, shall be liable to a fine as set out in Sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987,for such offence. In the event of such person persisting to commit such contravention or violation afterhaving been found guilty by a Court of Law with the due jurisdiction for such offence and imposed a fine,such person shall be liable to an additional fine as set out in the above mentioned Section.

20. In the By-laws in this part, unless any other meaning is required -

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means ..........................................."Pradeshiya Sabha"

Secretary means, the Secretary of the ........................ Pradeshiya Sabha during the particularperiod.

"Licensed Premises" means any place for the use of which a license has been issued under anyprovision of these By-laws.

"Authorized officer" means any officer of the ....................... Pradeshiya Sabha to whom powerhas been delegated by the Chairman for the relevant purpose.

"Due time for inspection" means any time during which business or manufacturing activities areconducted at the relevant premises.

Fees andcharges.

Fines andpenalties.

Interpretationand definition.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201618A

"Playground" means any playground provided for playmg by the Pradeshiya Sabha including theboundary wall or fence or any other building or a part of a building or any structure withequipment within that premises.

"Game" means the same meaning given under the Sports Act No. 25 of 1973.

FIRST SCHEDULE

4TH BY-LAW

APPLICATION TO USE THE ...............................PLAYGROUND

1. Applicant's Name : ———— .

Address : ———— .

National Idendity Card No. : ———— .

2. Purpose for reservation : ———— .

3. Date and time for reservation : ———— .

Date : From ............................................. To ............................................

Time ........................................................

I certify that all the information given above are true and accurate. In the evetn of the relevant playgroung beingreserved on my request, I agree that the Pradeshiya Sabha recovers any sum in respect of any damages caused to thebuilding, constructions, equipments and frixtures of such playground, from the deposit. In the event of such sum exceedingthe amount of deposit, I agree to pay to the Pradeshiya Sabha such excess sum. Likewise, I agree to abide by the provisionsof the By-Laws relating ot regularization, control and supervision of Playgrounds.

.............................................Signature of applicant.

Date :

SECOND SCHEDULE

Section B of the 7th By-Law

CHARGES FORMULA FOR THE USAGE OF A PLAYGORUND

PlaygroundFee Rs.Deposit Rs.Fee for an additional Hour. Rs.

01

02

03

04

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

BY-LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZING, SUPERVISING AN CONTROLLING THEMAINTENANCE OF LODGING HOUSES WITHIN THE AREA OF JURISDICTION OF THE.................................. PREDESHIYA SABHA

1) These bylaws may be cited as Bylaws relating to Regularizing, Supervising and Controlling themaintenance of Lodging Houses within the area of Jurisdiction of the ............................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

2) The objectives of these bylaws are to maintain the lodging houses run in the area of Jurisdictionof the Pradeshiya Sabha in a manner that ensures the protection of public health.

3) This bylaw has been formulated as per the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-section 126(ix) (e) to be read with Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

4) It is the duty and responsibility of the licensee to obtain an med licences by submitting anapplication form given in Schedule 01 hereto

5) Unless the provisions laid down in this bylaw have not been fulfilled completely the Chairmanshall not issue a licence for a lodging house of any sort:

1. The premises shall be kept in properly maintained condition.

2. While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 meters, bothsides of the walls shall have been plastered with mortar and applied with paints, in theevent of their being built with bricks, cement blocks or cabook blocks. Otherwise, whenthe walls, except for those of the kitchen, have been built with wood or metal or with woodand metal, and have been painted on their surface, that shall be considered to be incompliance with this provision.

3. While every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a height of notless than 2.5 meters from the ground level.

4. Every room shall have windows that could be opened and the area of the opened windowsshall not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room; however, where anyroom is air-conditioned, this provision shall not apply.

5. The roof shall be made of some solid material.

6. The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for theeaves shall be at least 1.5 meters in width.

7. The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiled.

8. While dustbins shall be placed to collect waste generated in the site, the dust bins kept atthe kitchen shall have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent the entry of flies or otherkinds of insects.

9. Necessary arrangements to comply with the requirements set out in bylaw No. 11 shallhave been put in place in order to dispose of waste generated in the premises.

10. Every table made use of at the kitchen ofthe premises -

(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with paints when they are built in wood,and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with polished non-opaquematerials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

Title of the By-law.

Objective.

Legal provisionsfor theformulation ofthe By-law.

Functions to beperformed.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201620A

(b) Shall have their legs painted when they are made of iron, steel or any other type ofmetal and the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with polished, non-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

11. Every table made available for use by the customers of the premises

(a) shall have their legs polished and applied with paints 'When they are built with wood, andthe top surface of the tables shall have been covered with a sheet of glass or polishednon-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

(b) shall have their legs painted when they are made of iron, steel or any other type of metaland the top surface of the tables shall have been covered with a sheet of glass or polished,non-opaque materials or stainless and jointless metal sheets.

12. While a quality certificate issued by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board onthe suitability of the water used in the premises for human consumption shall have beenobtained, this quality certificate shall be obtained at least once in every six months. In theevent the water being supplied by the National Water Supply and Drainage Board is usedat the premises, it shall be presumed that this certificate has been obtained.

13. In the event of the water used for the activities of the premises being kept in storage,sufficient safety measures shall be put in place to prevent pollution of the water that isstored.

14. A separate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used by thecustomers.

15. Separate lavatories and urinals shall have been provided for the use of the employees onthe basis of one each for every ten males and females and a separate, common lavatoryand urinal each should be provided for the use of male and female customers.

16. The walls of every lavatory and urinal shall have been built with bricks, cement blocks,cabook blocks or stainless metal sheets and the floor should have been plastered withcement and finished off with cement or tiled. Moreover, when there are walls built withbricks or cement blocks or cabook blocks, they shall be finished off with cement or tiledand when they are built with stainless metal sheets, the surfaces shall have been painted.

17. A sufficient number of bathrooms shall have been built for the use of the persons employedat the premises and the prescriptions relevant to lavatories mentioned in paragraph (16)shall apply to the floors and walls of these bathrooms.

18. In the section assigned for the use of the customers of the premises, wash basins made ofstainless metal sheets or made of ceramic clay and polished or made of bricks or cementblocks and tiled shall be made available.

19. A suitable system of drains shall be made available to allow free flow of waste water thatis disposed of from any section of the premises.

20. In the event of the Pradeshiya Sabha maintaining a drainage system, arrangements may bemade to divert waste water generated at the premises to the said drainage system in themanner prescribed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. Otherwise action shall be taken to divertsuch waste water to a suction pit.

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

21. While general fire fighting instruments shall have been provided at the site electricallyoperated fire extinguishers shall have been made available if electricity supplies havebeen obtained to the site.

22. The section where tea, coffee or milk is prepared shall have been covered with a stainlessmetal sheet or with tiles or with any other type of non-opaque material.

23. The space allotted for each person for sleeping in the bedrooms set apart for the customersand the employees of the hotel shall not be less than at lease four square meters. Meanwhileevery bedroom shall be provided with an almirah or cabinet to keep clothes, a towel rack,a table to keep the goods of the lodger or the lodgers and a bathroom with toilet facilities.

6) Any person requesting a licence under the provisions of these By-laws shall forward to theChairman an application substantially prepared according to the specimen given in the schedule to thispart.

7) It is the duty of the licensee to ensure that every space where paints need to be applied as setout in bylaw 5(2) shall be applied with paints at least once a year.

8) The licensed premises shall be swept at least twice a day and the drains carrying waste watershall be cleaned and washed with water at least twice a day.

9) While every licensed premises shall maintain a register to note the name, address and identityof each person coming to stay overnight in the licensed premises, it shall be the duty of the licensee toallow inspection of that register when it is so requested by the Chairman, Authorized officer or any PoliceOfficer.

10) Unless the bed sheets, pillow cases, sheets, towels and any other clothes used by anycustomer occupying any bedroom of the licensed premises are washed and cleaned after being used byhim no other customer shall be allowed to use them and the windows in that room shall have being left fullyopen for at least four hours before it is allowed to be used by any subsequent customer.

11) It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that every room, staircase, veranda, drains and theentire area of the licensed premises are swept before noon every day.

12) The lavatories and urinals at the licensed premises shall be cleaned at least twice a day anddisinfected and shall be maintained so as to prevent bad smell spreading. However, the cleaning of lavatoriesonce a day in any room where customers are lodging is considered sufficient.

13) Every receptacle, vessel and instrument used for preparation of food, for exhibition of food forsale and for the use of the customers in the licensed premises shall be washed in clean water before use andthe licensee shall ensure that they are cleanly washed after use as well.

14) While action shall be taken to categorize all waste collected in each section of the licensedpremises according to the manner prescribed in bylaw No.11 and to put them immediately into a receptaclemade of non-opaque material, such waste shall be removed from that site at least once a day or on a numberof occasions if required. These receptacles shall be kept securely closed except when waste is put intothem and waste is removed from them.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201622A

15)(a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories -

(i) biodegradable waste,

(ii) glass,

(iii) paper or paper based materials,

(iv) Polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal,

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or byproducts or other parts produced in the production line,

(vii) dangerous waste,

And it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers ortanks put in place for that purpose.

(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman.

16) While every licensed premise shall be maintained free of rats, flies or any other kind of insects,it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that the materials kept there for use in preparing food or beveragesand food or beverages prepared are protected from pollution by the above animals

17) While food that is served to the customers shall not be handled by bare hands, a spoon, forkor any other instrument shall be used to serve food.

1. It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensedpremises to a medical test at least once a year

18) It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply aprons to every employee that is engaged inpreparing food or beverages at the licensed premises and to ensure that the employees are wearing thesesafety materials when they are on duty.

19) All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushesto clean nails and soap or fluid soap.

20) Unless a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained noperson shall maintain a lodging house in the Pradeshiya Sabha area.

21) No person shall be allowed to sleep in any other room than those which have been specificallydeclared as bedrooms in the licensed premises.

22) The licensee shall not allow a number of persons to sleep in any bedroom not commensuratewith the minimum space specified in paragraph 23 of bylaw No.5.

23) In respect of any lodging house, the licensee shall not allow more than one person to sleep ina single room or more than two in a double room or more than three in a triple room. However, when the ageof anybody sleeping in any room is below 12 years, that person shall not be considered as one person forthe purposes of [this bylaw.

Acts to beavoided.

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

24) While everybody lodging in any lodging house shall forward hislher identity to the licensee,the relevant person shall sign hislher name in the column where hislher particulars are entered in theVisitors' Register maintained at the lodging house. Moreover, any person not establishing his/her identityor refusing to sign the name in the column of the Visitors' Register where information in respect of his/lheridentity are entered shall not be allowed by the licensee to stay overnight in any section of the licensedpremises.

25) While it is the duty of the licensee to ensure that any lodging house is not used for immoralactivities, no person shall engage in singing songs or activating disk operating machines or making anyunnecessary noise so as to create inconvenience to other lodgers in the lodging house or residents livingclose by.

26) Keeping any type of animal in any bedroom, place where food is prepared or place reserved forpartaking food in the premises shall not be done.

27) The waste removed from the licensed premises shall not be dumped at any time on the groundof the site or at various places around the premises.

28) In any licensed premises, the licensee shall not keep -

1. More than one bed in a single room.2. More than one double-bed or two single-beds in a double room.3. More than a double-bed and a single-bed or three single-beds in a triple room.4. More than two double-beds and a single bed or one double-bed and three single-beds orfive single-beds in a family room.

29.

1. Provided that the period of infection On or of cubation of a infectious, contagious or skindisease has not elapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such adisease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering fromsuch a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage inservice in a licensed premises or as an assistant of any person engaged in service at sucha premises.

2. Unless a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself oremploy anybody else in any form of duty at any licensed premise.

30) While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kindof food prepared or kept for sale in any licensed premises, no licensee shall desist or prevent suchpurchase.

31) In the event of the premises where any lodging house is maintained under a licence issuedunder these bylaws fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in bylaw No.05or contravenes the provisions of any of the bylaws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action toissue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the saidpremises to the prescribed position before a specified date.

32) The Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to collect an annual license fee that is stipulated underSection 149 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act for the running of any lodging house.

33) It shall be lawful to delegate the power to regulate the activities of these bylaws to any of theofficers of the Sabha by the Chairman or the Secretary of the Sabha.

Role of the localgovernmentb o d y .

Delegatingpower.

Charges andfees.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201624A

34) Every licence issued under the provisions of these bylaws shall be valid up to 31 st ofDecember of the year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

35) The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer of theprovisions of these bylaws shall mean any occasion when production activities of the premises are carriedon.

36) Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 31 shall act in the manner prescribedin such notice before the date specified in the notice. In the event of the submission of any writtenexplanation that is acceptable, the Chairman shall have the power to extend the specified date mentionedin such notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be. more than 14 days

37) When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 31 fails to act in accordancewith the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall belawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises. -

38) While it shall be the duty of the licensee to co-operate with the Chairman to inspect thelicensed premises under any provision, no licensee shall interrupt any such inspection.

39) Any complaint may be submitted in writing or orally to the Chairman, Secretary or any authorizedofficer of the Sabha and such officer shall conduct a formal investigation and provide solutions.

40) It is an offence to violate anyone or a number of or all of the provisions in these bylaws.

41) Any person being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction for violating the orders inthese bylaws shall be liable to a fine set out in subsection 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987. Incase any person who is subjected to such fine continues to repeat such offence or violation after beingconvicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to an additional fine set out in the aforesaidsub section.

1. In the bylaws in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms -

"Chairman" means the person holding the office of Chairman of the ......................... PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the ................................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Secretary" means the person holding the office of Secretary of the ...........................PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"Family room" means a room with sufficient space to accommodate five lodgers at a time and hastwo double-beds and a single-bed or one double-bed and three single-beds or five single-beds.

"single-bed" means a bed with a minimum length of 200 cm and a minimum width 95 cm and has amattress.

"single-room" means a room with sufficient space to accommodate one lodger and has a single-bed.

"triple-room" means a room with sufficient space to accommodate three lodgers at a time and hasone double-bed and a single-bed or three single-beds.

Period of validityof the licence orthe permit.

Inspectionprocedure andauthority.

Mechanism forcomplaints andremedies.

Violation ofbylaws.

Fines andPenalties.

Interpretationand definitions.

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

"double-bed" means a bed with a minimum length of 200 cm and a minimum width 125 cm and hasa mattress.

"double-room" means a room with sufficient space to accommodate two lodgers at a time and hasone double-bed or two single-beds.

"Lodging house" means a place where any type of prepared food and accommodation facilitiesare provided to customers together with the aforesaid activities.

"Tea or coffee shop" means any place which is maintained for sale oftea or coffee with bakeryproducts or short eats.

"Licensee" means any person who has obtained a license under the provisions mentioned inthese bylaws and may be the owner or the manager of or any person· who is in charge of thelicensed premises during the particular period.

"Licensed premises" means any premises for the use of which a licence has been issued underthe provisions of any of these bylaws.

"Authorized officer" means any of the officers of the ......................... Pradeshiya Sabha to whompower has been delegated for the particular purpose in writing by the Chairman.

"The appropriate time for inspection" means any occasion when the business or productionactivities of the premises are carried on.

SCHEDULE I(BY-LAW No. 04)

APPLICATION FOR OBTAINING A LICENCE FOR RUNNING A LODGING HOUSE

1. Name of the applicant : ———— .

Address : ———— .

National Identity Card No : ———— .

2. Name of the lodging house : ———— .

Address : ———— .

3. Year from which the licence is applied : ———— .

4. Details of the lodging house : ———— .

(i) No. of single rooms : ———— .

(ii) No. of double rooms : ———— .

(iii) No. of triple rooms : ———— .

(iv) No. of family rooms : ———— .

(v) Total No. of lodgers that can be accommodated at a time : ———— .

5. No. of employees working at the lodging House (including the menager) : ———— .

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201626A

BY-LAWS RELATING TO BAKERIES WITHIN THE AREA OF JURISDICTION OF THE.................................. PREDESHIYA SABHA

1) These by-laws may be cited as Bylaws relating to Regularizing, Supervising and Controlling themaintenance of Bakeries within the area of jurisdiction of the ............................... Pradeshiya Sabha .

2) The objectives of these by-laws are to maintain the bakeries run in the area of jurisdiction of the.................................. Pradeshiya Sabha in a manner that ensures the protection of public health.

3) This bylaw has been formulated as per the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha underSubsection 126(ix) (h) to be read with Section122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

4) Unless the provisions laid down in this bylaw have not been fulfilled completely, the Chairmanshall not issue a licence for an eating house, restaurant or a tea or coffee shop of any sort:

(a) The conditions in this part shall have been fulfilled irrespective of the medium in whichheat is obtained for food produced in the bakery.

Title of the by-law.

Objective.

Legal provisionsfor theformulation ofthe by-law.

Functions to beperformed.

6. Toilets :

(i) The number of toilets for male employees : ———— .

(ii) The number of urinals for male employees : ———— .

(iii) The number of toilets for female employees : ———— .

(iv) The number of toilets for male cumstomers : ———— .

(v) The number of urinals for male customers : ———— .

(vi) The number of toilets for female employees : ———— .

7. Bathrooms :

(i) No. of bathrooms for males : ———— .

(ii) No. of bathrooms for females : ———— .

8. No. of kitchen : ———— .

9. Source of water supply : ———— .

10. Methodology for the final disposal of solid waste : ———— .

I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and accurate. I agree to comply with the provisions in the by-lawsin respect of regularizing, supervising and controlling of the lodging house. I apply for a licence for the year 20.......... tomaintain the above lodging house under the above by-laws.

.............................................Signature of Proprietor,Manager/Guardian

Date : ———— .

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

(i) The Bakery shall be in properly maintained condition.

(ii) Every room in the bakery shall have windows that could be opened to the outside.The area of the opened windows shall not be less than one fifteenth the area of thefloor of the room.

(iii) Every room shall have ceilings fixed and the ceiling shall have been painted in white.

(iv) The floor of every room shall have been finished with cement or tiled.

(v) While the room in which the oven of the bakery is located shall be in a height of atleast 3 meters from the ground level of the room, it shall be built in bricks or cementblocks or kabook blocks with both sides of the walls being plastered and applied withpaints.

(vi) Every room in the bakery other than the room where the oven is located shall be in aheight of at least 2.75 meters from the floor level to the ceiling level, and they shall bebuilt in bricks or cement blocks or kabook blocks or aluminium or timber with bothsides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints.

(vii) All fittings in the bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints.

(viii) While the roof shall have been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall beat least 1.8 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be atleast 1 meter in width.

(ix) Arrangements shall have been made to use potable water for production purposes.

(x) While a supply of safe water shall have been provided through pipes to every roomusing water in the production process, action shall have been taken to provide adrainage system sufficient to allow the flow of waste water.

(xi) Waste water disposed of shall be allowed to flow into a suction pit.

(xii) Waste disposal system shall have been put in place in the manner prescribed in bylawNo.9.

(b) When the bakery requesting a licence is one using wood, -

(i) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the bakery shall have been built to aheight of at least 7.5 meters above the ground level.

(ii) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been madesmooth and the joints shall have been joined leaving no spaces between the joints.Otherwise they shall be covered with joint less stainless metal sheets.

(iii) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removedfrom the oven of the bakery shall be supplied.

(iv) The outside walls of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with lime.

(v) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fightinginstruments shall have been supplied additionally if electricity supply has beenobtained for the bakery.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201628A

(c) When the bakery requesting a licence functions using electricity -

(i) While the electric plugs connecting electricity supply to bakery equipment shall be ina safe condition, trip switches automatically functioning during high voltage andleaks in electricity shall have been fixed.

(ii) While the electricity cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premises shallbe drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity, ends of electricitycables shall not be exposed to the outside.

(iii) Ordinary fire fighting equipment and electric fire extinguishers shall have been provided.

5. Every space where paints need to be applied as set out in bylaw 4 shall be applied with paintsat least once a year.

6. The floor of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once every day.

7. The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept in properlymaintained condition.

(a) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees engaged at the licensed premisesto a medical test at least once a year

8. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other necessarysafety materials to every employee of the bakery and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safetymaterials when they are on duty at the licensed premises and that the employees have washed themselvesand be clean before engaging in duty at the bakery.

9. (a) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, actionshall be taken to categorize the waste material under the categories -(i) biodegradable waste,

(ii) glass,

(iii) paper or paper based materials,

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics,

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal,

(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or byproductsor other parts produced in the production line,

(vii) dangerous waste,

and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containersor tanks put in place for that purpose.

(b) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the mannerset out in paragraph (a) above is disposed of under the programme of waste managementlaunched by the Pradeshiya Sabha, the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribedby the Chairman.

10. While a separate room exclusively used for the storage of flour and other materials used in thebakery shall be maintained, it shall be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of flies or otherinsects and rats.

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

11. When storing flour in the store room mentioned in bylaw No. 10, a rack made of timber on astand at a height of 20 centimetres from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack shall have -beenfinished so as to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover, while the said rack shallhave been covered so as to prevent rats and other kmds of insects remaining underneath it, the structureshall be placed at least 23 centimetres away from the wall.

12. It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned in by-law No. 11 are taken out andcleaned at least twice a month.

13. While the employees of the factory shall be allocated lavatories ill the proportion of at leastone for each group of ten employees, separate lavatories shall be set aside for males and females. Moreover,such lavatories shall be located at least 15 meters away from the rooms of the bakery.

14. All employees of the licensed premises shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushesto clean nails and soap or fluid soap.

15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights or any othertype of standard scale at a clearly visible place in all the premises licensed under the provisions of thebylaws in this part and to take action to weigh at the request of any customer the weight of any bakeryproduct on sale or exhibited for sale.

16. In the event of the delivery of bakery products of any bakery by the licensee himself it shall bethe duty of the licensee to utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of wastematerial or water.

17. Unless a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained noperson shall maintain bakery in the Pradeshiya Sabha area.

18. Unless the date of expiry of flour and other materials used in the manufacture of bakeryproducts are at a sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of bakeryproducts at any time.

19.

(a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skindisease has not elapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such adisease in the recent past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering fromsuch a disease shall engage himself or employ anybody or let anybody else engage inservice in a licensed premises or as an assistant of any person engaged in service at sucha premises.

(b) Unless a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself oremploy anybody else in any form of duty at any licensed premise.

20. Water not suitable for human consumption, shall not be used for any bakery products.

21 While no person shan sleep in any part of a place licensed under the provisions of thesebylaws, action shall be taken not to keep or store any other material other than the instrument or materialsused for the functions of the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees ofthe bakery shall not be included to this.

22. In the event of the water used for the manufacture of bakery products is being stored in anunderground water tank, action shall be taken not to locate a suction pit, or fertilizer pit or ash pit less than18 meters away from such tank.

Acts to beavoided.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201630A

23. No person shall smoke or chew betel leaves or chew any other substance or take food withinthe bakery.

24. The Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to collect an annual license fee that is stipulated underSection 149 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act for the running of any bakery.

25. It shall be lawful to delegate the power that is vested with the Sabha to regulate, monitor andcontrol the activities of these bylaws to any of the officers of the Sabha by the Chairman or the Secretaryof the Sabha.

26. Every licence issued under the provisions of these bylaws shall be valid up to 31 st ofDecember of the year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

27. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer of theprovisions of these bylaws shall mean any occasion when production activities of the premises are carriedon.

28. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kindof food produced or kept for sale in any bakery, no licensee shall desist or prevent such purchase.

29. While the Chairman or an authorized officer shall have the power to inspect any place forwhich a licence has been obtained under a provision or provisions of these bylaws, it shall be the duty ofthe licensee to attend such inspection carried out in the appropriate time for inspection. Moreover, nolicensee shall prevent or interrupt any such inspection.

30. In the event of the premises where any bakery is maintained under a licence issued under thesebylaws fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in bylaw No.04 or contravenesthe provisions of any of the bylaws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice tothe said licensee demanding him to accomplish all necessary conditions to restore the said premises to theprescribed position before a specified date.

31. Any lincesee in recept of a notice mentione in by-law No. 30 shall act in the manner prescribedin such notice before the date specified in the notice. In the event of the submission of any writtenexplanation that is acceptable, the Chairman shall have the power to extend the specified date mentionedin such notice. However, the period of such extension shall not be more than 14 days.

32. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in bylaw No. 30 fails to act in accordancewith the manner set out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall belawful for the Chairman to cancel the licence issued to that premises.

33. Any complaint may be submitted in writing or orally to the Chairman, Secretary or any authorizedofficer of the Sabha and such officer shall conduct a formal investigation and provide solutions.

34. It is an offence to violate any one or a number of or all of the provisions is these By-laws.

35. Any person being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction for violating the orders inthese bylaws shall be liable to a fine set out in subsection 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.1 5 of 1987. Incase any person who is subjected to such fine continues to repeat such offence or violation after beingconvicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to an additional fine set out in the aforesaidsub section.

Charges andfees.

Delegatingpower.

Period ofvalidity of thelicence or thepermit.

Inspectionprocedure andauthority.

Mechanism forcomplaints andremedies.

violation of By-laws.

Fines andPanalties.

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

36. In the bylaws in this part, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms -

"Chairman" means the person holding the office of Chairman of the .............................. PradeshiyaSabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the ......................................Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Secretary" means the person holding the office of Secretary of the ..........................................Pradeshiya Sabha during the particular period.

"authorized officer" means any of the officers of the ......................... Pradeshiya Sabha to whompower has been delegated for the particular purpose in writing by the Chairman.

"Bakery products" means bread, cake, buns, biscuits or any other kind of sweets manufactured inany bakery for sale or on an order placed by any person.

"Bakery" means a place where bread, cake, buns, biscuts or any other other kind of sweets aremanufactured for sale or on an order placed by any person and it shall also include any placewhere such food is prepared or where goods are stored for the preparation of such food..."licensee" means any person who has obtained a license under the provisions mentioned in theseby-laws and may be the owner or the manager ofm any person who is in charge of the licensedpremises during the particular period.

"licensed premises" means any premises for the use of which a licence has been issued under theprovisions of any ofthese by-laws.

SCHEDULE

......................................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

APPLICATION FOR A BUSINESS LICENCE - YEAR 20..........

1. Name of the proprietor of the trade/business : ———— .

2. Private Address : ———— .

3. National Identity Clard No : ———— .

4. Telephone Number : Mobile : ———— .Home : ———— .

5. Name of the Trade/Buniness : ———— .

6. Nature of the Trade/Business : ———— .

7. Details of the premises of the trade/business :

(a) Address : ———— .

(b) Name of the Street/Road : ———— .

Interpretationand definitions.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201632A

BY-LAWS RELATING TO ADVERTISEMENTS WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF ........................PRADESHIYA SABHA

1. Cited as the By-laws relating to advertisements within the jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha.

2. The objective of these By-laws is to regularize and control the dvertisements displayed in thejurisdiction of .............................. Pradeshiya Sabha in environmentally friendly manner abiding by rulesand regulations.

3. These By-laws have been formulated under the powers vested in the sub-clause 126 (xxx) thatmust be read with clause No. 122 of the Provincial Councils Act.

4. The Pradeshiya Sabha shall determine from time to time as to which areas in the area of authorityof the Council are allowed to display advertisements. While it is the duty of the Chairman to take action topublish in the gazette a notification about the decision taken by the Council from time to time in respect ofareas where display of advertisements would be allowed it shall be effective from the date the notificationwas published in the gazette or any future date specified in the gazette notification.

Title of the By-law.

Objective.

Legal provisionsfor theformulation ofBy-laws

Functions.

(c) Assessment No. : ———— .

(d) Telephone No. : ———— .

8. No. of the Grama Niladhari Division in which the Trade/Business in run : ———— .Name of the Grama Niladhari Division : ———— .

9. If Business Name Registration has been obtained, the reference No. of the Registration : ———— .

10. Name of the Manager/Representative of the presmises in which the Trade/Business is run: ———— .

11. National Identity Card No. : ———— .

12. Telephone Nos. : ———— .

Mobile : ———— .Home : ———— .

The Chairman,.........................

I request that a Trade/Business licence be issued to me for year 20......... for the presmises in which the trade/Business described above is run. I do hereby agree to comply with the provisions in respect of the same.

.............................................Signature of applicant.Date : ————.

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

5. Unless it has not been cancelled already every licence issued under these By-laws shall bevalid only for the period specifically mentioned in the licence.

6. Any body who expects to obtain a licence to display any advertisement shall forward anapplication substantially prepared in accordance with the specimen given in the first schedule to tehChairman at least two (2) days before the date on which the said advertisement is expected to be displayed.

7. When conditions necessary for the issue of a licence under the By-laws in this part in respectof any application submitted have been fulfilled the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall inform theapplicant about it. It shall be the duty of the Chairan or Authorized Officer to issue the licence to theapplicant making payment of the fees for the licence in the manner set out in By-Law No. 17(a) and fees forthe surety set out in By- Law No. 21, after receipt of the above notice.

(a) Notwithstanding anything stated in this By-Law an advertisement in respect of any religiousactivity or any cultural activity held without charging any money shall be free of charges.However, the other provisions of the By-laws in this part shall apply in respect of anysuch advertisement in the manner set out.

8. It shall be the duty of the licencee to indicate in the lower edge of the right hand side of eachadvertisement or advertisements the registered number of the licence issued in respect of all notificationsto be displayed before such display is done.

9. It shall be the duty of the licencee to take action to remove the advertisement and all the othergoods used in this regard out of the place or places where such advertisements were put in place, beforethe expiry of forty eight hours after the last day of the display of the advertisement mentioned in theapplication forwarded to obtain a licence under the By-laws in this part.

10. When an advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed together with thename, number and/or address of any business enterprise and when an advertisement of any form ofcommodity or service has been displayed in any household, such advertisement or advertisements shallbe subjected to the provisions of the By-laws in this part. The owner, manager or anybody in-charge of theadministration of the premises for the time being shall be considered as the person who should obtain thelicence in respect of provisions of this By-Law.

11. (a) No person shall exhibit or provide to exhibit any advertisement within the area of PradeshiyaSabha which is visible at a distance unless the possesses a valid license made in accordancewith the format given in the first schedule by the Chairman.

(b) Even with a valid license for the exhibition no advertisement must be displayed any otherplace other than the advertisements has been given the permission to exhibit.

12. Unless the applicant has fulfilled the provisions in the By-law the Chairman shall not a issuea licence for the display of any form of advertisement.

(a) The request shall be for the display in a place within the zone determined upon by theCouncil from time to time in accordance with the manner set out in By-Law No.2.

(b) The period of validity of the licence already issued to any other person in respect of theplace for which the licence is currently requested shall have been terminated. However,this provision shall board nearby so as not to obstruct the viewing of the advertisementbeing displayed under a licence previously issued and still in force.

Things thatshould not bedone.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201634A

(c) The advertisement for which a display licence is sought shall not contain any scenes orwords which are obscene or unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harmingany religion or community or race or which can cause such a situation.

(d) When a licence has been requested to display an advertisement in a hoarding erected bythe Pradeshiya Sabha, under this, there shall be sufficient space in the hoarding in orderto display the relevant advertisement. Moreover, the period of time allocated for theadvertisements already being displayed under a licence issued earlier shall have beenterminated.

(e) The advertisement shall not be an advertisement or display prohibited or limited by awritten law of the country.

(f) Every application forwarded to obtain. a Licence shall contain a specimen of theadvertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 millimetres by 297 millimetresand a ground plan or plans of the place or places where the advertisement is expected tobe displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210 mm x 297 mm. Moreover, the exactlength and the width of the advertisement shall have been indicated therein.

(g) When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed -

(i) Happens to be a hoarding erected by the Pradeshiya Sabha under By-Law No.3, thefees determined upon under paragraph (b) of the By-Law for the display of thatadvertisement on the hoarding shall have been paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(ii) happens to be a place owned by any person other than the applicant, or by any otherAuthority written evidence ensuring that permission has been granted to display theadvertisement at the particular place shall have been forwarded.

13. Anybody shall not fix an advertisement in a manner that may cause any obstacle or accidentto a person walking hear the particular advertisement or to a vehicle being driven nearby. Moreover, fixingof electricity light rays or fluorescing of light so as to change the attention of a driver driving a vehicle orcause disturbances to his view shall not be done.

14. The Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be subjected to any form of responsibility in respect of anydamage, defacement or evacuation caused to any advertisement being displayed under a valid licenceobtained for such display.

15. Nobody shall fix, paste, hang, keep tied or project any form of advertisement in a tree, a trunkof a tree, a branch or in any part found in a public place or close to such a place or attached to a publicbuilding.

16. (a) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to erect and maintain hoardings whereadvertisements could be displayed in any plot of land owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha inany area determined upon by the Council from time to time under By- Law NO.2 or in a landowned by any other person and obtained by the Council on an agreement arrived at by theCouncil.

(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to charge from the exhibitors a fee determinedupon by the Council from time to time for displaying an advertisement in any hoardingerected by the Council under paragraph (a).

(c) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to publish in the gazette a notification on the annuallicence fees to be levied by the Pradeshiya Sabha under the provisions of the paragraph (a).

Role of TheLocalgovernment.

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

17. (a) when a decision has been made to issue a licence in respect of any application forwardedfor the purpose of displaying an advertisement the Chairman shall not issue the licence forthe said application until the applicant has deposited security money in the PradeshiyaSabha at the rates to be determined by it from time to time.

(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to publish in the gazette about the decision taken bythe Council in respect of the rate of the deposit money to be deposited in the PradeshiyaSabha prior to issuing a licence to display any advertisement.

18. (a) After taking action in the manner set out in By-Law No.9, the licencee shall be able towithdraw the deposit money deposited at the Pradeshiya Sabha before the issuing of therelevant licence on a written request made to the Chairman.

(b) On receipt of a written request in the manner set out in paragraph (a) it shall be the duty ofthe Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha to asssure,

(i) The licencee has properly accomplished the provIsions stated in By-Law No.9, and(ii) that in the event of the hoarding being constructed by the Pradeshiya Sabha nodamage is caused to the hoarding while removing the said advertisement or due toany other cause, the licencee is held responsible, before releasing the said depositmoney to the said licencee.

(c) Unless the Chairman is satisfied when ensuring in the manner set out in paragraph (b) thatthe licencee has acted in the manner stated in the By-Law No.9 and that no damage iscaused to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the said deposit money shall not bereleased fully to the licencee. When any Iicencee has avoided acting in the manner statedin By-Law No.9 or when any damage has been caused to the hoarding of the PradeshiyaSabha, suitable action shall be taken to deduct from the deposit money expenditure thatthe Pradeshiya Sabha would have to bear to effect the particular task or to repair thehoarding or to accomplish both, and only the balance remaining shall be refunded to theIicencee.

(d) When the money used by the Pradeshiya Sabha in taking action in the manner stated inparagraph (c) is more than the deposit money deposited, the licencee shall pay the extramoney payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha

19. The provisions in the By-laws in this part shall not be relevant for the display in front of anybusiness premise or any factory within the jurisdiciton of the Pradeshiya Sabha, to a single notice depictingthe name, address and the nature of the enterprise being maintained at the said place of business or thenature of the products being produced at the factory, for a domestic name board and for a singleadvertisement carrying the phrase "on lease" or "for sale" or "available for rent" displayed on any propertyintended to be given in lease or for sale or to be given on rent. However, at any time when more than onesuch advertisement is displayed the provisions of this By-law shall apply in respect of all such additionaladvertisements.

20. The provisions of the By-laws in this part shall not apply in respect of advertisements displayedby the Government, Provincial Council or the Pradeshiya Sabha.

21. When the place where the advertisement is to be displayed.-

(i) Happens to be a hoarding erected by the Pradeshiya Sabha under By-law No.3, the feesdetermined upon under paragraph (b) of the By-law for the display of that advertisementon the hoarding shall have been paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha.

Discretion/Exemption/Amnesty.

Charges andfees.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201636A

(ii) Happens to be a place owned by any person other than the applicant, or by any otherAuthority written evidence ensuring that permission has been granted to display theadvertisement at the particular place shall have been forwarded.

22. It is legal to delegate authority to any officer of the council, the powers vested in the PradeshiyaSabha to regularize, supervise, and to control the activities pertaining to these by-laws by the Chairman orSecretary.

23. (a) Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of this part shall be valid up to31st December of the year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier underThe of-The Provisions of The-By-laws in this part.

(b) When it is reguired to display an advertisement during the suceeding year after the expiryof the period of validity of the licence currently issued for the display of any advertisementa new licence shall have been obtained on displaying the notice for such succeeding year.However, notwithstanding the amount of fees determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha ascharges intended to be made during the succeeding year in respect of licences to beissued for the display of advertisements the licence fees determined earlier shall be relevantfor the new licence to be issued for the display of the said advertisement.

24. (a) When any hoarding, support, construction or fitting of any form used for the fixing of anyadvertisement is in a state that might harm the environment or be a danger or risk toanybody or any property of any person, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall havethe power to direct the Iicencee through an order to bring it back to proper conditionswithin a specified period of time.

(b) It shall be lawful to cancel the issued licence for such an advertisement, and remove theadvertisement by the Chairman or authorized officer, when anybody in receipt of anotification under paragraph (a) has avoided acting in the manner provided for by theprovisions of the notification.

(c) When any licence has been cancelled under the provisions in paragraph (b) the securitydeposit deposited at the Pradeshiya Sabha in respect of displaying that advertisementshall accrue to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and nobody else shall have the right toclaim the deposit money.

25. The Iicencee shall be subjected to responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused orlikely to be caused to any party due to a support, fixing or any other thing used in this connection utilizedfor the construction of any advertisement or due to the menacing or connotation implied in the saidadvertisement.

26. It shall not be assumed as well as understood that the mere fact of issuing a licence under theBy-laws in this part for the display of any advertisement tantamount to giving legal sanctions for thepresentation of the meaning or the connotation embodied in the said advertisement.

27. Any complaint could be submitted written or oral to the Chairman / Secretary or competentofficer of the Pradeshiya Sabha and such officer will provide solution after a formal inquiry.

28. It is an offence to violate anyone or many or all provisions in these by- laws.

29. When any provision in the By-laws in this part has been violated the Chairman or the AuthorizedOfficer shall have the power to cancel any licence issued having invited the attention in respect of suchviolations.

Delegation ofAuthority.

Validity Perod ofpermit licence.

InspectionProcedure andAuthority.

Complainats andSolutionMechanism.

Violation OfBy-laws.

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

Charges AndFines.

InterpretationAndDefinition.

30. Any person who violates the orders in these by laws shall be guilty of an offence and beingconvicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine set out in sub section 122(2) ofPradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 and in case any person who is subjected to such fine continue torepeat such offence or violation after being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liableto an additional fine set out in the aforesaid sub section.

31. In these By-laws if otherwise interpreted regarding wordings, the following words carry thefollowing meaning.

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means ................................. "Pradeshiya Sabha";

"Secretary" means, the Secretary of the ...................................Pardaeshiya Sabha during theparticular period;

Competent officer means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman, inwriting for a particular purpose;

"Traffic police Officer in charge" means any police officer authorized by the Head QuarrtersInspector in writing for the particular purpose;

"cut-out" means, an advertisement pasted or fixed in any frame prepared using wood or any othermaterials;

"Hoarding" means any permanent board built in order to fix or hold any advertisement displayedfor the information or attention of the public;

"advertisement" means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or noticeor announcement or business notification containing any letters or words or illustrations usedin advertising and displayed fully or partly over or on a land or building or a created structureand being displayed for the information or attention of the public and put in place by pasting,fixing, erecting, hanging or any other means;

"cut-out" means, and advertisement pasted or fixed in any frame prepared using wood or anyother materials.

FIRST SCHEDULE

.................................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

APPLICATION THE DISPLAY OF ADVERTISEMENTS

Schedules,

to ............................ Chairman,By-Law No. 6

Applications for display of advertisements

01. Name of the applicant : ———— .

02. Address : ———— .

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201638A

BY-LAWS RELATING TO PARKING OF VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC CONTROL IN THEJURISDICTION OF ........................ PRADESHIYA SABHA

These By-laws are cited as By-Laws relating to regularizing, supervision, and control of parkingvehicles and traffic control on the roads within the jurisdiction of ..... Pradeshiya Sabha.

To assure safety of the committees and to prevent traffic accidents parking of vehicles and trafficcontrol within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

These By-laws have been formulated based on the sub-section 126 (vii) (g) read with section122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

(a) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to -

(i) ban the parking of vehicles ;(ii) limit the parking of vehicles ;(iii) allow parking on one side only ;(iv) ban or limit the loading or unloading of goods ;(v) ban loading and unloading of passengers ;

03 National Identity Clard No : ———— .

04. Telephone No. : ———— .(If the applicant is not present,

Name of the representative and address : ———— .

National Iendity Card No. : ———— .

Telephone Number, : ———— .

Particulars of the advertisement : ———— .

i. Size of the advertisement : Length : .................. cm, Width : ....................... cm.

ii. Contents of the advertisement : ———— .

(A copy of the advertisement must be attached)

7. Period of display (from ................... to ...........................) I hereby promise to abide by all provisions in the By-lawsrelating to regularizing, supervision and control of advertisements and to take action to remove the advertisement/advertisements relevant to the applicaion and all materials used in this regard out of the place/places at amyexpense, before the expiry of two days after the termination of the period of validity of the licence.

.............................................Signature

Date : ———— .

Tile of theBy-law.

Objective.

Legal provisionfor the By-laws.

Functions.

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

(vi) name bus stops ;(vii) name one way streets and roads and to determine the direction of traffic, on anysection of any street or road in the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha;

(b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take action to fix road signs on limitations at relevantplaces after placing any limitations under paragraph (a). While these road signs of thelimitations shall be in accordance with provisions published in the Gazette Extra ordinaryNo. 448/18 dated 13th March 1987, having been made by the Minister under Sectin 237 ofthe Motor Traffic Act read with Section 165 of the said Act, they are subject to amendmentsmade from to time time.

5. Any driver of a vehicle being driven along any street or road located within or lying along thearea of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall obey the Provisions depicted in a road sign or signs fixedunder the Provisions in paragraph (b) of By-Law No.2.

6. Action shall be taken to display easily readable notices in all the three languages at the entryand the exit for the convenience of the vehicles arriving at the vehicle park.

Moreover, arrows with white lines 20 centimetres wide shall be marked so as to enable the driversto easily recognize the directions they shall follow while entering into the vehicle park and leaving it.

7. While the floor of every vehicle park shall be tarred or laid with concrete separate lavatoriesshall have been made available for the males and females using the vehicle park. At the same time sufficientdrains shall have been constructed for the free flow of water accumulated at the site.

8. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take steps to remove garbage collected within thepremises of every vehicle park every day and to clean the lavatories using disinfectants daily

9. When accommodation is made to park vehicles at any vehicle park, sufficient traffic lanes shallbe made available for the convenience of vehicles entering and leaving the premises.

10. When any vehicle is being driven or being parked within the vehicle park sufficient space shallbe made available in it to park each vehicle so as not to cause any obstruction to those already parkedwithin. Moreover, a white line 10 centimetres wide shall be marked to indicate the space allocated to eachvehicle in the park.

It shall be the duty of the Chairman to display at the entrance prominently in all the three languagesthe amount of money decided upon by the Council as charges for parking of any type of vehicle in anyvehicle park.

12. (a) (i) Any employee of the Pradeshiya Sabha or (ii) Any successful bidder selected by thePradeshiya Sabha after calling for tenders or a person named by the particular bidder,hereinafter referred to as the "Vehicle Park Warden" shall be employed by the PradeshiyaSabha to collect charges made on vehicles parked in the vehicle park.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201640A

(b) However, while the fees charged for parking vehicles in any vehicle park shall not exceedthe fees decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha in the manner stated in the By- Law No. 11, thefees charged for parking each vehicle shall be noted down in a receipt substantiallyprepared according to the first schedule in this part and issued to the driver.

13. It shall be the duty of the Chairman to take action to see that every Vehicle Park Warden onduty is dressed in a suit to be decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha and which would allow easy identificationof the Park Warden.

14. (a) It shall be the duty of the Vehicle Park Warden to issue an Admission Card indicatingpermission to enter and prepared substantially in accordance with the second schedule inthis part to the driver of the vehicle at the entrance to the Park when a vehicle of any typeis allowed to be parked under paragraph (b) of By-Law No.5 enters the vehicle park.

(b) Before leaving the vehicle park, it shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle parked inthe vehicle park to -

(i) return the card mentioned in paragraph (a) to the vehicle park warden,(ii) pay to the vehicle park warden parking fees decided upon by the Council in the mannerset out in By-Law No. 12;(iii) obtain a suitable receipt mentioned in paragraph (b) of By-Law No. 13.

15. It shall be the duty of the owner or the driver of any vehicle parked within any vehicle park tosubmit for inspection the admission card issued in respect of the vehicle when the Chairman or anyAuthorized Officer or the Vehicle Park Warden or any Police Officer requests it for inspection.

16. The provisions of the By-laws in this part shall not apply to ,-

(a) government vehicles,

(b) vehicles of the Provincial Council,

(c) Vehicles of a local authority established within the Province, parked within any vehiclepark established within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

However, the said provisions shall apply in respect of any vehicle of any State Corporationor Statutory Body in the manner set out in the By-laws in this part.

17. It shall be lawful for the Chairman, or an Authorized Officer or the Vehicle Park Warden to takeaction to remove any vehicle parked in the vehicle park without valie admission card.

18. Notwithstanding anything stated in the By-Law No.5 the limitations prescribed by any roadsign fixed on the decision of the Pradeshiya Sabha under the provisions of By-Law No.4 shall not apply inrespect of,

(a) a fire fighting vehicle or any other vehicle of the Pradeshiya Sabha used for the purposeof control any fire or any disaster occurring at any building or close to a building in anysection of the street or road;

(b) acting in accordance with an order issued appropriately by any Police Officer in order toprevent any traffic jam occurring in any street or road or on any particular section of the

Things shouldnot be done.

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

street or road or in order to control any unexpected situation occurring in the area ofauthority of the Pradeshiya Sabha, and it shall not be considered as a violation of theprovisions in By-Law No.3.

19. (a) No person shall park or drive into a vehicle part or allow to be driven into the park anyvehicle or a vehicle which is not a motor vehicle unless it is a vehicle of the type decidedby the Pradeshiya Sabha to be allowed into the Park for parking.

(b) When there is sufficient space at the entry gate for any vehicle arriving at the vehicle parkto tow away any vehicle parked inside it when it is found impossible to start it in order totake it out of the park, the provisions in paragraph (a) shall not apply for the other vehicle.However, such towing shall not be made in a manner causing any obstacle or harm toother vehicles parked in the vehicle park.

20. No person shall,

(a) wash a vehicle or cause a vehicle to be washed ;

(b) make any repairs other than an essential repair in order to start the vehicle or changing atyre for the purpose of taking the vehicle out of the vehicle park;

(c) make any noise which is considered unnecessary or oppressive when any repair mentionedin paragraph (b) are carried out;

(d) park the vehicle in any place in the vehicle park other than where it was originally parkedwithout permission from the Vehicle Park Warden;

(e) park vehicles so as to block the lanes of the vehicle park or the gates at the entry and theexit;

(f) blow the alarm instruments fixed in the vehicle except for the purpose of preventing anaccident or ensuring the safety of the occupants in the vehicle;

(g) blow the horn of any vehicle parked or entering or leaving the vehicle park,

(h) consume liquor or spit after chewing betel leaves or use indecent language or createcommotion or engage in immoral activities, in any vehicle park.

21. While the responsibility in regard to the security of any vehicle parked in any vehicle parkshall lie with the person who parks it in the vehicle park, the Pradeshiya Sabha or the Chairman or theVehicle Park Warden shall not be subjected to responsibility in regard to any loss or harm caused within thevehicle park.

22. No vehicle shall on any occasion be driven in the opposite direction to that which is marked inthe lane within any vehicle park in the manner set out in By-Law No.6.

23. No person shall harm or deface any construction made or instrument found in any vehiclepark.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201642A

24. A fee can be charged as determine from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha for the parking ofvehicles inside a car park.

25 (a) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to allocate, -

(i) any plot of land owned by the Council or

(ii) on an agreement entered into with any Authority, any plot of land owned by suchother Authority, for the purpose of parking motor vehicles, hereinafter referred to as"the vehicle park", within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall decide from time to time the type of vehicles that shall beparked in any vehicle park and the maximum number of vehicles that shall be parked at atime.

26. At least two gates shall be made available in every vehicle park, one as a point of entry and theother as an exit. However, in the event of allocating a separate area in the park for the sole purpose ofmoving vehicles and allowing double lanes for vehicular traffic, with sufficient space at the gate it shall bein order to have only one gate for entry as well as exit.

27. Violation of one or many or all provisions of this By-law shall be considered and effence.

28. In this part unless the context otherwise requires.

"road" means any road, highway, lane, avenue, street, by-lane, pair of steps, stepping log orpedestrian bridge owned by the Council and it shall also include any directional sign, demarcationstone, demarcation post, lamp post, bridge, any type of culvert, water crossing, parapet wall,arch, bund, drain, sluice, supportive bund, hand rail, chain, fence, sign board, road sign or apavement by the side of a road fixed or erected in relation to any road, highway, lane, street,avenue or pair of steps possessed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

"vehicle" means any motor vehicle in conformity with the definition given in the Motor TrafficAct in respect of any motor vehicle

29. In these By-laws if otherwise interpreted regarding wordings, the following words carry thefollowing meaning.

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means ............................ "Pradeshiya Sabha"

"Secretary" means, the Secretary of the ............... Pardeshiya Sabha during the particular period.

"road" means any road, highway, lane, avenue, street, by-lane, pair of steps, stepping log orpedestrian bridge owned by the Council and it shall also include any directional sign, demarcationstone, demarcation post, lamp post, bridge, any type of culvert, water crossing, parapet wall,arch, bund, drain, sluice, supportive bund, hand rail, chain, fence, Sign Board, road sign or apavement by the side of a road fixed or erected in relation to any road, highway, lane, street,avenue or pair of steps possessed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

"vehicle" means any motor vehicle in conformity with the definition given in the Motor TrafficAct in respect of any motor vehicle

Charges and fees.

Discretion/exemptions/release

Violation of By-laws,

Fines andpunishment.

interpretationand definition.

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

Schedules

FIRST SCHEDULE

PARAGRAPH (B) OF BY-LAW NO. 12

........................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

Vehicle Partk at : ............................................

Vehicle parking fees : .....................................

Receipt No.: ....................................................

Registration No. of the vehicle : ............................

Date : ........................... 20 .......................

Time of arrival : ................... a.m./p.m.

Time of departure : .......................... a.m./p.m.

Fees charged Rs: ...............................

........................................................

SECOND SCHEDULE

Paragraph (a) of By-law No. 15

Front Side of the Card

Name of the Pradeshiya Sabha : .............................

Vehicle Park at : ..........................................

Entry Permit

Back of the Card

This card is not transferable

This card should be returned when leaving the

Car park

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201644A

........................ PRADESHIYA SABHA

BY-LAWS RELATING OF SALE OF FOODS AND BEVERAGEWS BY ITINERANT VENDORS

01. These by-laws are cited as by-laws relating to regularization, supervision and control of thesale of foods and beverages by itinerant vendors within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha.

02. To regularize and maintain the selling of food and beverages by itinerant vendors within thejurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha in a manner that would not harm the public health and protects theenvironment.

03. These By-laws have been formulated according to sub section (A) of 126 (X) read with section122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.

04. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue alicence to any itinerant vendor to sell foods and beverages.

(a) A closed receptacle or box that could prevent food or beverages available for sale beingpolluted by flies, insects, dust or water shall be kept in readiness.

(b) A holder made of stainless metal shall be available to be used when food is served to thecustomers.

(c) If food or beverages are offered to the customers to be consumed then and there separatereceptacles shall be available for such purposes.

(d) While separate receptacles shall be made available to collect left-over of food and leftoversof beverages offered to the customers, these receptacles shall consist of tight lids.

5. All waste material generated while engaged in itinerant vending shall be categorized under the categoriesof:-

(i) bio degradable waste;

(ii) glass;

(iii) paper or paper based materials;

(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics;

(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal;

and action shall be taken to dispose of these waste materials belonging to each category in themanner prescribed by the Chairman under the waste disposal programme of the PradeshiyaSabha.

6. The licence obtained for these purpose must be kept with the itinerary vendor on all occasionshe engages with the business and it must be produced to the Chairman or any other competent officer forthe inspection.

7. Unless a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained noperson shall sell foods and beverages in any place other than a hotel, shop or market in the PradeshiyaSabha area

Title of the By-law.

Objective.

Legal Provisionfor theformulation ofBy-laws.

Functions.

Things shouldnot be done.

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

8. Unless anybody engaged in itinerant vending is carrying out his/her activities so as not tocause inconvenience or danger to vehicles or pedestrians using any lane or road or to any person assembledat any public place no itinerant vending shall be done in any public premises.

9. If itinerant vending has been banned by the Chairman in any area under the purview of theCouncil nobody shall engage in itinerant vending in that area.

10. Even if a licence had been obtained under the By-laws ofthis part, any person suffering fromany infectious, contagious, or skin disease or had recently suffered from such a disease or had recentlynllfsed any person suffering from such a disease shall not engage in itinerant vending activities unless theperiod of infection and germination had elapsed.

11. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kindof food or beverages being sold by an itinerant vendor, no l\cencee shall desist or prevent such purchase.

12. The Pradeshiya Sabha has the powers to charge an annual license fee from itinerary vendors.

13.(a) Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of this part shall be valid up to31st December ofthe year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.

(b) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraph (a) it shall be lawful for the Chairman toissue temporary licences for itinerant vendors when there is a public gathering like afestival or meeting, procession or a gathering of any other type in the area of authority ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha. Moreover, the particular licence shall be terminated after the expiryofthe date for which the licence was issued.

14. The appropriate time for inspection by the Chairman or by an Authorized Officer ofthe provisionsof the By-laws in this part shall mean any occasion when an itinerant vendor is engaged in itinerantvending.

15. (a) Provided that the Chairman has been made aware of by the Medical Health Officer that acontagious disease or a disease in the abdominal area is spreading in the PradeshiyaSabha area or there is the likelihood of such a disease spreading in the area, the Chairmanshall have the power, -

(i) to temporarily suspend any licence issued under the provisions in this part havingstated the facts in writing;

(ii) to ban itinerant vending in any area under the purview of the Pradeshiya Sabha;

(iii) to take into his custody the licence temporarily suspended under paragraph (i) duringthe period of such suspension, and

(iv) to revalidate the licence suspended in the event of the M.H.O. taking action to keepthe Chairman aware ofthe fact that the danger of the disease spreading has ended,before the date of expiry of the licence.

(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha, the Chairman, the Authorized Officer or the M.H.O. shall not besubjected to responsibility in respect of any loss or harm caused to the licencee due totemporary suspension of any licence under paragraph (a).

Fees andcharges.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201646A

(c) In the event of the M.H.O. keeping the Chairman aware of the fact that the danger whichcaused the ban on itinerant vending in any part ofthe area of authority ofthe PradeshiyaSabha under subsection (ii) of Section (a) has ended, it shall be the duty of the Chairmanto inform the licencees that permission will be granted to recommence itinerant vending inthat particular area.

16. Violation of anyone or many or all the provisions of these by-laws will be an offence.

17. In the event of any itinerant vending activity carried on under a licence issued under the By-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in By-Law No.4 orcontravenes the provisions of any By-Law of the By-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take actionto issue a written notice to the said licencee and it shall be lawful for him to cancel the licence issued foritinerant vending thereafter.

18. Any person who violates the orders in these by laws shall be guilty of an offence and beingconvicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine set out in sub section 122(2) ofPradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 and in case any person who is subjected to such fine continues torepeat such offence or violation after being convicted by a court of law of proper jurisdiction shall be liableto an additional fine set out in the aforesaid sub section.

19. In the By-laws in this part, unless any other meaning is required,-"Itinerant vending" means atrading in food or beverages kept in a receptacle or in a box or in any type of container or in any vehicle bybicycle or cart or trolley done by sale or exhibiting for sale or by sale through exhibition for the consumptionof the public. It shall also include the sale of such commodities while travelling from place to place orstaying at a certain place.

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the relevant Pradeshiya Sabha during the particular period.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means .........................Pradeshiya Sabha

Secretary means, the Secretary of the ............................ Pradeshiya Sabha during the particularperiod.

"Medical Health Officer " means any Medical Health Officer appointed to cover the PradeshiyaSabha area or the Assistant Medical Health Officer.

Title of By-law.

Objective.

Legal Provision.

By-law

BY-LAW RELATING TO REGULARIZATION, SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF THE SALE OFFISH WITHIN THE AREA OF JURISDICTION OF THE ........................ PRADESHIYA SABHA

1. This By-Law is cited as the By-Law relating to Regularization, Supervision and Control of theSale of Fish,within the area of .................................... jurisdiction of thePradeshiya Sabha.

2. These By-Laws have been fonnulated with the objective of maintaining public health andsanitation in the area of jurisdiction ofthe ..................................... PradeshiyaSabha, in tenns of Section3 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987.

3. This By-Law has been fomulated in tenns of the powers vested in the foumulate the.......................................... the to fomulate the Pradeshiya Sabha, in tenns of Sub Section

126 (ix) a, being read with Section 122 (1) ofthe PradeshiyaSabha Act No. 15 of 1987.

violation of By-laws.

47AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

4. No person shall be issued with a license to conduct a stall for the sale of fish by the Chainnan,unless the trade premises for which the license is sought confonns to the following conditions.

(a) The part of the premises in which fish is displayed for sale should be fixed with ceramictiles, or plastered with cement, or fixed with stainless steel plates.

(b) The floor of the part of the premises in which fish is displayed for sale and where fish isstored should be finished with cement plaster or fixed with ceramic tiles.

(c) There should be drains with the necessary slope, finished with cement plaster or fixedwith ceramic tiles, to facilitate the flow of waste water.

(d) Sufficient provision should be made to prevent water from the drains mentioned in (c)above flowing to any common water course, and provision should be made for such waterto flow into a soakage pit.

(e) A sufficient number of receptacles should be placed to store the bio-degradable wastematter which is removed from the fish sales premises, and at the end of the daily sales,such waste matter should be either buried at a depth of not less than 0.5 meters fromground level or should be handed over to a garbage collection vehicle of the Council, inaccordance with the directions which are decided and given by the ..............................Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

(f) Sufficient water-sealed lavatory facilities should be provided to the staff working in thepremises and suitable sanitary facilities and materials should be provided for their useafter using the lavatory.

(g) Any licensed fish sales premises should be kept free of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

5. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish sales premises, the floor of such premises, theparts of the walls covered with cement plaster or tiled, the logs and equipment used for cutting fish andshow-rooms where fish is displayed should be washed and cleaned using antiseptic liquid.

6. No person shall transport any kind of fish, other than in a vehicle, box or other receptacle in acovered state, which could be closed well, in such a manner that flies, insects or any other animals cannotenter, and after such transport of fish, such vehicle, box or other receptacle used for the transport of suchfish should be washed well, using antiseptic liquid.

7. Any licensed fish sales premises and drains around it, and all receptacles and utensils used forstorage, processing and sale of fish should be kept in a good state of repair and should be free of stenchor any bad odour.

8. It is the duty of the license holder to subject all employees serving in the fish sales premises toa medical examination at least once a year.

9. It is the duty of the license holder to provide all employees working in the fish sales premiseswith safety wear and equipment, including mouth masks and gloves, and ensure that such employees arewearing such safety wear at all times they are working in such fish sales premises.

10.1t is the duty of the license holder to provide soap or liquid soap for the use of every personengaged in work in the licensed plemises.

Actions of beperformed.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201648A

11. (a) It is the duty of the license holder to ensure that all waste matter which is generated in thelicensed premises, unless they are re-used, should be separated and categorized accordingto the following grades, and put into separate receptacles or tanks, according to suchgrades:-

(i) Bio-degradable waste.

(ii) Glass.

(iii) Paper or paper related material

(vi) Polythene and Plastic or Polytheen and Plastic related materials.

(v) Iron and other metal material or iron and other metal meterial parts.

(vi) Parts leftover from other raw-materials used in production, or by-products or partswhich are got in the production process.

(vii) Hazardous waster mater.

(b) Waste matter which is separated and put into receptacles or tanks as mentioned in (a)above, unless disposed of under the Waste Management Scheme of the Council, shouldbe finally disposed of as directed by the Chairman.

12. No person, unless such person holds a lincense issued by the Chairman for such activity,shall sell fish within the area of authority of the ....................................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

13. Any kind of fish which is left over without being sold after the daily sales of the fish salespremises, should not be sold, displayed for sale or kept in a deep-freezer or in the licensed premises on thefollowing day, unless such fish which is left over is stored in a deep-freezer which is in good working orderfrom the time such fish is stored until the time on which the fish stall is opened on the following day.

14. No objects or materials of any kind, including clothing or sleeping mats, other than equipmentor receptacles used for the storage, processing or sale of fish, shall be kept in the licensed premises.

15. (a) No person who is suffering from an infectious, contagious or skin disease or a person whohad been suffering from such a disease recently or a person who had been attending to apatient suffering from such a disease recently, unless the infectious and incubation periodof such disease has elapsed, should be engaged in any form of fish sale or should beengaged in helping any person engaged in any form of fish sale, or should be allowed toengage in any such work, in any fish sales premises.

(b) No person, unless such person is dressed in clothes which are washed well and clean,should be engaged in any form of work or should be allowed to be engaged in any form ofwork in any fish sales premises.

16. The soakage pit to which waste water flows should not be exposed to air.

17. (i) The Chairman shall not issue a license to any person submitting an application in terms ofthis By-Law, unless such person has fulfilled the conditions set out in this By-Law.

(ii) It is the duty ofthe Council from time to time to make proposals, pass resolutions and laydown conditions, which are fair and legal in regard to regularization, supervision andcontrol of conducting of fish stalls within its area of authority, and make them public.

Actions whichshould not bedone.

Duty of theLocal Authority.

49AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

(iii) If an application for a license is rejected, the Chairman shall inform the applicant in writingthe reasons for such rejection, as soon as possible.

18. The Pradeshiya Sabha possesses the power to suspend the license for a certain period in theevent of the license holder violating or contravening this By-Law, to consider re-issuing a license to suchperson and, in the event of such person persisting to violate the conditions set out in such license, torefrain from issuing a license again to such person.

19. Where any fish sales premises for which license has been granted under By-Laws in thissection, is conducted in contravention of the provisions of By Law No.4 or any other By-Law, the Chairmanshall cause to hand over to such license-holder a notice directing him to do everything necessary to bringsuch premises to a state where it conforms to the provisions of such By-laws prior to a date which isspecifiction mentioned.

20. In the event of any license-holder who receives a notice as mentioned above, appealing to getan extension of the date which is specifically mentioned in such notice, the Chairman shall have the powerto grant an extension of the date which is specifically mentioned in such notice. Provided, however, thatthe period of extension so granted does not exceed fourteen (14) days.

21. In the event of any license holder who has received a notice as described above, failing to actin accordance with the directions given in such notice before the date specifically mentioned in the noticeor the extended date, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license given to such license holder.

22. The Council possesses the power to levy an annual license fee as mentioned in Section 149 ofthe Pradeshiya Sabha Act, for the purpose of conducting a fish stall.

23. It shall be lawful for the Chairman to delegate to any officer of Council the power to regulate,supervise and control any matters contained in this By-Law.

24. Every license issued under these By-Laws, shall terminate on 31 st of December of the year forwhich it has been issued, unless it had been cancelled on a prior date.

25. The "appropriate time" during which the Secretary or an authorized officer is empowered tocarry out inspection in regard to any directions set out in these By-Laws shall mean any time whenbusiness activities take place in the premises.

26. It shall be the duty of the license holder to assist the Secretary to carry out inspection of alicensed premises in terms of a direction. Likewise, the license holder should not prevent or obstruct anysuch inspection.

27. In the event of any fish sales premises for which license has been issued under these By-Laws,having ceased to be conducted in terms of any direction set out in By-Law 4 or is conducted in contraventionof directions set out in any other By-Law in this Section, the Secretary shall cause to be handed over tosuch license holder a notice, directing such license holder to do everything necessary to bring suchpremises to a state which conforms to such direction, before a specifically mentioned date.

28. (i) While it shall be lawful for the Secretary or an authorized officer to purchase on paymentof its price a sample of any type of fish which is kept for sale in any licensed premises, nolicense holder should reject or obstruct such purchase.

(ii) Any license holder who receives a notice as stated above, should act in the manner statedin such notice, prior to the date specifically mentioned in such notice.

Discretion/Exemption/Amnesty.

Charges andFees.

Delegation ofPower.

Period ofValidity ofLicense orPermit.

Inspectionprocedure andAuthority.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201650A

(iii) In the event of any license holder who receives such a notice failing to act in the maner asdirected in such notice before the date specifically mentioned in such notice before thedate specifically mentioned in such notice or before the extended date, it shall be lawful forthe Chairman to cancel the license issued to such premises.

29. It is possible to submit in writing or verbally any complaint to the Chairman, Secretary or anauthorized officer of the Pradeshiya Mechanism Sabha, who shall hold a formal inquiry and providesolutions.

30. The power of supervision of this By-Law is vested with the Chairman of the PradeshiyaSabhaor the officer to whom he delegates such power.

31. The Chairman shall possess the power to extend the date specifically. mentioned in such anotice on receipt of facts submitted in writing in an acceptable manner,-provided however that the periodof such extension shall not exceed fourteen days.

32. Any person who is found guilty by a Court of Law with the necessary judicial power, for anoffence involving a contravention or violation of any provision contained in these By-Laws, shall be liableto a fine set out in Sub-section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, for such offence. Likewise, any personwho, after being found guilty and imposed such a fine by a Court of Law with the necessary judicial power,further persists in committing such contravention or violation, such person shall be liable to an additionalfine as set out in the above mentioned Sub-Section.

Consequent to any Pradeshiya Sabha duly accepting these By-Laws, unless the context otherwiserequires -

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the.............................. Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the ................................ Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Secretary" means the Secretary of the ...................................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Fish Stall" means premises where fish is displayed for sale.

"License Holder" means any person who has obtained a license under the provisions of these By-Laws, and includes the Craretaker or Manager of such licensed premises or a person who is incharge of affairs in such premises during the relevant period.

"Licensed Premises" means any premises for the use of which a license has been obtained underthe provisions of any o these By-Laws

"Authorized Officer" means an officer of the .............................. Pradeshiya Sabha to whom powerhas been delegatd by the Chairman in writing for the relevant purpose.

"Appropriate time during which power has been given for inspection" means any time duringwhich business aciviies take place in such premises.

Complaints andSolution.

Violation of By-Laws.

Supervision.

Fines andPenalties.

Interpretaionand Definition.

51AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

SCHEDULE

APPLICATION TO OBTAIN A TRADE LICENSE

YEAR .........................

1. Name of the Owner of the Industry/Trade : ———— .

2. Personal Address : ———— .

3. National Identity Card No : ———— .

4. Telephone Number : Mobile : ———— . Residence : ———— .

5. Name of Industry/Trade : ———— .

6. Nature of Industry Trade : ———— .

Place where the Industry/Trade is conducted :

(a) Address : ———— .

(b) Name of the Street/Road : ———— .

(c) Assessment No. : ———— .

(d) Telephone No. : ———— .

7. The Grama Niladhari Area in which Industry/Trade is conducted :No. : ———— .Name : ———— .

8. If Business Name Registration has been obtained, its reference No. : ———— .

9. The ame of the Manager/Agent of the presmises where the Industry/Trade is being conducted : ———— .

10. National Identity Card No. : ———— .

11. Telephone Nos. : ———— .

Mobile : ———— .Residence : ———— .

I request that I be issued an Industrial/Trade License for the year 20..... for the premises in which the Industry/Traderegarding wich particulars are furnished above is been conducted. I agree to the laws and regulations in this regard with arein force.

.............................................Name of applicant.

Date : 20...........

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201652A

BY-LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZATION, SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF THE SALE OFMEAT, WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF THE ....................... PRADESHIYA SABHA

1. This By-Law is cited as the By-Law relating to Regularization, Supervision And Control of theSale of Meat, in the area of authority of the ' ......................................................... Pradeshiya Sabha.

2. The objective of this by-Law is to Regularize, Supervise and Control the Conducting of the Saleof Meat within the area of jurisdiction of the ................................Pradeshiya Sabha.

3. This By-Law has been formulated in terms ofthe powers vested in the ....................PradeshiyaSabha, in terms of Sub Section 126 (ix) a, being read with Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15Of 1987.

4. No person shall be issued with a license to conduct a stall for the sale of meat by the Chairman,unless the trade premises for which the license is Sought conforms to the following conditions.

(a) The part of the premises in which meat is displayed for sale should be fixed With ceramictiles, or plastered with cement, or fixed with stainless steel Plates.

(b) The floor of the part of the premises in which meat is displayed for sale and Where meat isstored should be finished with cement plaster or fixed with Ceramic tiles.

(c) There should be drains with the necessary slope, finished with cement Plaster or fixedwith ceramic tiles, to facilitate the flow of waste water.

(d) Sufficient provision should be made to prevent water from the drains Mentioned in (c)above flowing to any common water course, and Provision should be made for such waterto flow into a soakage pit.

(e) The soakage pit to which waste water is made to flow should not be exposed to the air.

(f) A sufficient number of receptacles should be placed to store the bio-degradable wastematter which is removed from the meat sales premises, and at the end of the daily sales,such waste matter should be either buried at a depth of not less than 0.5 meters fromground level or should be handed over to a garbage collection vehicle of the PradeshiyaSabha, in accordance with the directions which are decided and given by the PradeshiyaSabha from time to time.

(g) Sufficient water-sealed lavatory facilities should be provided to the staff working in thepremises and suitable sanitary facilities and materials should be provided for their useafter using the lavatory.

5. No person shall transport any kind of meat, other than in a vehicle, box or other receptacle in acovered state, which could be closed well, in such a manner that flies, insects or any other animals cannotenter, and after such transport of meat such vehicle, box or other receptacle used for the transport of suchmeat should be washed well, using antiseptic liquid.

6. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat sales premises, the floor of such premises, theparts of the walls covered with cement plaster or tiled, the logs and equipment used for cutting of meat andshow-rooms where meat is displayed should be washed and cleaned using antiseptic liquid.

Title of By-Law.

Objective.

Legal Provisionto formulate theBy-Law.

Actions to bePerformed.

53AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

7. Any licensed meat sales premises and drains around it, and all receptacles and utensils used forstorage, processing and sale of meat should be kept in a good state of repair and should be free of stenchor any bad odour.

8. Any licensed meat sales premises should be kept free of dogs, cats, rats, insects or any otheranimals.9. A sufficient quantity of water fit for drinking should be kept at the licensed premises for the useof those who are working there.

10. It is the duty of the license holder to provide all employees working in the meat sales premiseswith safety wear and equipment, including mouth masks and gloves, and ensure that such employees arewearing such safety wear at all times they are working in such meat sales premises. It is also the duty of thelicense holder to subject all employees 'engaged in work in the meat sales premises to a medical examinationat least once every year, and to maintain a register containing medical reports in respect of each employee.

11. It is the duty of the license holder to provide soap or liquid soap for the use of every personengaged in work in the licensed premises.

12. (a) It is the duty of the license holder to ensure that all waste matter which is generated in thelicensed premises, unless they are re-used, should be separated and graded according tothe following grades, and put into separate receptacles or tanks, according to suchgrades:-

(i) Bio-degradable waste.

(ii) Glass.

(iii) Paper or paper related material.

(iv) Polythene and plastic material or polythene and plastic material parts.

(v) Iron and other metal material or iron and other metal material parts.

(vi) Parts leftover from other raw-materials used in production, or by-products or partswhich are got in the production process.

(vii) Hazardous waste matter.

(b) Unless the waste matter which is graded and stored in receptacles or tanks as mentionedin (a) above is disposed of under the waste management scheme of the Pradeshiya Sabha,such waste matter should be finally disposed of as directed by the Chairman.

13. In the event of any meat sales premises for which license has been issued under this By-Law,having ceased to be conducted in terms of any direction set out in By-Law 4 or is conducted in contraventionof any direction set out in any other By-Law in this Section, the Chairman shall cause to be handed over tosuch license holder a notice, directing such license holder to do everything necessary to bring suchpremises to a state which conforms to such direction,before a specifically mentioned date.

14. Any license holder receiving a notice as mentioned in By-Law 13, should act in accordancewith the directions set out in such notice prior to the date specifically mentioned in such notice. TheChairman shall possess the power to extend the date specifically mentioned in the notice, on receipt ofacceptable facts in writing. Provided that such extended period does not exceed fourteen days.

IV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.201654A

15. No person shall use any premises in a place other than in a market, for the purpose of sellingmeat, without a valid license from the Chairman.'

16. No person shall sell any meat or shall display for sale any meat in any meat sales premises,other than meat of an animal which has been slaughtered in an abattoir which is duly licensed under theprovisions of the Butchers Ordinance.

17. Any meat which is left over without being sold after the daily sales of the meat sales premises,should not be sold, displayed for sale or kept in a deep-freezer or in the licensed premises on the followingday, unless such meat which is left over is stored in a deep-freezer which is in good working order from thetime such meat is stored until the time on which the meat stall is opened on the following day.

18. No meat should be kept for sale, or displayed for sale, or stored in any meat stall, in the eventnadirective is published in the gazette by the due authority, in terms of the powers vested in him underSection 17 of the Butchers Ordinance, prohibiting the slaughter of animals for meat in any abattoir on acertain date.

19. No objects or materials of any kind, including clothing or sleeping mats, other than equipmentor receptacles used for the storage, processing or sale of meat, shall be kept in the licensed premises.

20. (a) No person who is suffering from an infectious, contagious or skin disease or a person whohad been suffering from such a disease recently or a person who had been attending to apatient suffering from such a disease recently, unless the infectious and incubation periodof such disease has elapsed, should be engaged in any form of meat sale or should beengaged in helping any person engaged in any form of meat sale, or should be allowed toengage in any such work, in any meat sales premises.

(b) No person, unless such person is dressed in clothes which are washed well and clean,should be engaged in any form of work or should be allowed to be engaged in any form ofwork in any meat sales premises.

(c) It shall be the duty of the license holder to subject all employees who are engaged in workin the meat sales premises to a medical examination at least once in a year.

21. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or an authorized officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat,which is kept for sale or displayed for sale in any meat sales premises, 'after paying its price, and no licenseholder shall refuse or obstruct such purchase.

22. It shall be lawful for the Chairman to delegate in writing to a Public Health Inspector of the areaof authority the powers of Regulation, Supervision and Control of matters relevant to this By-Law, whichare vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha.

23. In the event of any license holder who receives a notice in terms of By-Law 13, failing to act asdirected in such notice before the date specifically mentioned in such notice or before the extended date,it shall be lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued to such premises.

24. Every license issued under these By-Laws shall terminate on 31st of December of the year forwhich it has been issued, unless it had been cancelled on a prior date.

25. It shall be an offence to violate one, several or all of these By-Laws.

26. Any person who is found guilty by a Court of Law with the necessary judicial power, for anoffence involving a contravention or violation of Any provision contained in these By-Laws, shall be liable

Delegation ofPower.

Period ofValidity ofLicense orPermit.

Violation of By-Laws.

Fines andPenalties.

55AIV (w) jeks fldgi — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'30PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.03.2016

to a fine set out in Sub-Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987,for such offence.Likewise, any person who, after being imposed such a fine by a Court of Law with the necessary judicialpower, further persists in committing such contravention or violation, such person shall be liable to anadditional fine as set out in the above mentioned Sub-Section 122 (2)

27. The "appropriate time" during which the Chairman or an authorized officer is empowered tocarry out inspection in regard to any directions set out in these By-Laws shall mean any time when meatsales are being conducted in the meat sales premises.

Consequent to any Pradeshiya Sabha duly accepting these By-Laws, unless the context otherwiserequires -

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the............................... Pradeshiya Sabha............................................................................................................"Pradeshiya Sabha" means the ................................. Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Secretary" means the Secretary of the ............................. Pradeshiya Sabha.

"Metal Stall" means premises where meat is displayed for sale.

"License Holder" means any person who has obtained a license under the provisions of these By-Laws, and includes the Caretaker or Manager of such licensed premises or a person who is incharge of affairs in such premises during the relevant period.

"Licensed Premises" means any premises for the use of which a license has been Obtained underthe provisions of any of these By-Laws.

"Authorized Officer" means any officer of the ................................. Pradeshiya Sabha, who hasbeen delegated power for the relevant purpose, in writing by the Chairman.

"The Appropriate Time during which power has been given for Inspection" means any timeduring which business activities take place in such premises.

04 - 642

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

interpretationand definition.