==== BLOCKS ==== 

NORTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

Order Pertaining to the delegation of powers of the Northern Provincial Public Service under section 32(2a) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as amended by the Provincials (Amendment) Act No. 28 of 1990

WHEREAS the Hon. Governor of the Northern Province by his Memorandum No. 2024/01 issued on 29.09.2025, delegated to the Northern Provincial Public Service Commission, the power of Appointment. Transfer. Dismissal and Disciplinary Control of officers of Provincial Public Service, from and out of the powers so delegated, the powers to the extent provided for in the schedule 1. hereto. are hereby delegated to the officers specifically mentioned in column I of said schedule being powers pertaining to the appointment, transfer, dismissal and disciplinary control as are specified in corresponding column III of the schedule, in respect of the categories of public officers as specified in column II of the schedule thereto, in conformity with the provision in clause 32(2a) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as amended by the Provincial Councils Act. No. 28 of 1990.

Provided however, in the event of any question arising in respect of any delegation or as to the implementation of the delegation hereof, made by the Northern Provincial Public Service Commission, the decision of the said Commission shall be final and conclusive. The Commission hereby directs that in the course if implementing the powers hereby delegated to the Provincial Chief Secretary or to any officer by the Northern Provincial Public Service Commission, all the decisions taken by such officer shall be implemented subject to the provisions in clause 32(2a) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 as amended by the Provincial Councils (Amended) Act. No. 28 of 1990.

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

1A - PG 7566 - 04 (03/2026) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

අංංක 2479/21 - 2026 මාාර්තු මස 09 වැැනි සඳුදාා - 2026.03.09No. 2479/21 - MONDAY, MARCH 09, 2026

ශ්‍රී ලංංකාා ප්‍රජාාතාාන්ත්‍රික සමාාජවාාදී ජනරජයේɏ ගැැසට් පත්‍රය

අති විශෙˤෂ

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'09Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.20262A

The said Commission specifically directs hereby that whoever officer to whom the aforementioned powers have been delegated, they at all times of implementing the powers so delegated to them, shall act in accordance with the procedural rules of Northern Provincial Public Service made by the Hon. Governor of the Northern Province acting in terms of clause 32(3) of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 and also in conformity with the Establishment Code and any conditions rules, regulations and other procedures decided upon from time to time by the Hon. Governor of the Northern Province and the Northern Provincial Public Service Commission.

In the course of the implementation of the powers delegated, any party dissatisfied shall have the right to appeal to the Northern Provincial Public Service Commission. Further, the following powers in addition to those specified in schedule 1 and delegated by order of the Hon. Governor, Northern Province, By Memorandum No. 2024/01 dated 29.09.2025, it is hereby further directed. shall be implemented by the Northern Provincial Public Service Commission.

Provincial Public Service Commission will retain the Power of Recruitment. Absorption and Release (out of the Province) of all officers of the Provincial Public Service of the Northern Province excluding All Island Service.

Powers to Appointment. Disciplinary Control and Dismissal of Staff Grade Officers of Provincial Public Service of the Northern Province [Provincial Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative Development. Provincial Assistant Commissioner of Land, Provincial Legal Officers, Provincial Bio Medical Engineers, Field /Office based Officers (Special Grade), Special Grade of Nurses. Professions Supplementary to the Medicines, Paramedical Service Officers, Special Grade of Departmental Services (Excluding Primary Level). Training Officer (Personal to Holder). Supra Grade of Provincial Public Management Service Officers, Special Grade Officers in Sri Lanka Technological Service, Provincial Information and Communication Technological Services-Class -2. Provincial Assessors]

The power of Appointment of any officer on contract basis and re-employment on contract basis in Provincial Public Service with Hon. Governor’s concurrence.

Appeal

Any officer of the Provincial Public service of the Northern Province, if aggrieved by any decision or order made by the Chief Secretary or other officers of the Provincial Public Service within the ambit of such delegated power, may prefer an appeal to the PPSC. NP against such decision or order. An appeal lies to Provincial Public Service Commission from Provincial Public Service Officer or Employee aggrieved by any order under these delegated powers within one (1) month to the Hon. Governor, NP may consider the appeal if necessary, to alter or vary or restore the decision or order made by the appointing authorities of the Provincial Public Service. Excluding Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service officers appeal should be submitted to Public Service Commission, according to the Public Service Commission Circular No. 04/03 dated 02.12.2003.

The officer of the Provincial Public Service of the Northern Province, if aggrieved by the decision of the PPSC, NP under such delegated power, may make an appeal from such decision to Hon. Governor within one month. Hon. Governor shall, upon the receipt of such appeal, make an order in accordance to power conferred on Hon. Governor under section 33 (8) of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987.

The appeals in the case of All Island Service Officers shall be in terms of the procedure stipulated under Public Administration Circular No. 56/89(1) dated 23.04.1993.

In accordance with the Memorandum No. 2024/01 dated 29.09.2025, 2024/01 Amendment - I dated 31.12.2025 issued by Hon. Governor. Northern Province, it is hereby specifically directed that the aforementioned delegation of powers shall be implemented with effect from 15.11.2025 and that the previous delegation of powers is hereby revoked, without detriment to any measures taken under or considered to have been taken under any such delegated power.

Mrs. Rubini Varathalingam, Chairman, Provincial Public Service Commission Northern Province.

Provincial Public Service Commission Northern Province,393/48. Temple Road. Jaffna.26th February 2026.

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'09Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.2026

3A

SCHEDULE -1

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIOfficer to whom the powers are delegatedService CategoryDelegated Powers

Chief Secretary

i. Sri Lanka Administrative Serviceii. Sri Lanka Engineering Serviceiii. Sri Lanka Planning Serviceiv. Sri Lanka Accountants’ Servicev. Sri Lanka Architects’ Servicevi. Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service\vii. Sri Lanka Quantity Surveyor Service

a. Appointment to the Postb. Transferc. Preliminary investigation

i. Supra Grade officers of the Provincial Public Management Service Officersii. Special Grade Officers in Sri Lanka Technological Servic

a. Appointment to the postb. Transfer

i. Provincial Tax officersii. Translators’ Serviceiii. Non staff grade Departmental service and primary level officers departmental service officers

a. Appointmentb. Transferc. Disciplinary controld. Dismissal

i. Additional Provincial Director of Educationii. Additional Provincial Director of Agricultureiii. Additional Provincial Director of Animal Production & Health Servicesiv. Subject matter Specialist Animal Production & Health Servicesv. Deputy Provincial Director of Animal Production & Health Servicesvi. Deputy Provincial Director of Agriculture [Approved Cadre 06 (Head Office -1, District Office-5)]vii. Deputy Director of Animal Production & Health Servicesviii. Zonal Director of Educationix. Deputy Commissioner of Ayurveda Medical Service.

a. Appointment

Chief Secretary

i. Deputy Provincial Director of Animal Production & Health Servicesii. Deputy Provincial Director of Agriculture [Approved Cadre 06 (Head Office-1. District Office-5)]iii. Deputy Director of Animal Production & Health Servicesiv. Zonal Director of Educationv. Provincial Assistant Commissioner of Co-operative De-velopmentvi. Provincial Legal Officersvii. Provincial Information Communication and Technologi-cal Services-Class-2viii. Provincial Assessors

a. Transfer

Chief Secretaryi. Additional Provincial Director of Educationii. Zonal director of educationa. Disciplinary control

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'09Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.20264A

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIOfficer to whom the powers are delegatedService CategoryDelegated Powers

In the case of absorption and release of officers in Grade II. Grade 1 and Special Grade in Sri Lanka Administrative Service and Grade 1 of the Sri Lanka Accountants, service with Hon. Governor’s concurrence.

a. Absorption and Release (out of the province)

Deputy Chief Secretary - Administration

i. Provincial Public, Service Officers, Service Managementii. Development officers, Serviceiii. Sri Lanka Technological Serviceiv. Provincial Information Communication and Technology Service-Class 3v. Data Entry Operators (Personal to holder)vi. Provincial Drivers, Servicevii. Provincial Office Employees’ Service

a. Appointmentb. Transferc. Disciplinary Controld. Dismissal

Prior approval obtained from Hon. Governor to such appointmentsa. Casual or temporary basis appointments

Provincial Ministry Secretariesi. Sri Lanka Scientific Serviceii. Sri Lanka Agriculture Serviceiii. Sri Lanka Animal Production & Health Service iv. Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service v. Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medical Officers Service vi. Sri Lanka Medical Officers Service (Specialist & Non Specialists)

a. Appointment to the post b. Transfer c. Preliminary investiga-tion

Provincial Ministry Secretaries

i. Any other Tertiary level Departmental Service Officers excepted Special Gradeii. Nurses, Professions Supplementary to the Medicines Services, Para Medical Services except the special grade of these servicesiii. Non Staff Grade Departmental Service Officers and Primary Level Departmental Service Officers

a. Appointmentb. Transferc. Disciplinary Controld. Dismissal

i. Sri Lanka Teachers’ Servicea. Appointmentb. Disciplinary Controlc. Dismissal

Appointment of Primary Grade Employees in Departmental Service. (Prior approval obtained from Hon. Governor to such appointments)

Casual or temporary basis appointments

i. Provincial Bio Medical Engineerii. Field/Office based Officers -Special Gradeiii. Special Grade of Nurses, Professions supplementary to the medicines, Paramedical Service Officersiv. Special Grade of Departmental Services (Excluding Pri-mary Level)

a. Transfer

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2026'03'09Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.2026

5A

Column IColumn IIColumn IIIOfficer to whom the powers are delegatedService CategoryDelegated Powers

Provincial Ministry Secretaries

i. Sri Lanka Principal Servicea. Appointment to the postb. Transferc. Disciplinary Controld. Dismissal

i. Sri Lanka Teacher Advisors Servicea. Appointment to the postb. Disciplinary Controlc. Dismissal

Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service and released for posts in the Northern Provincial council is the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Education (excluded Additional Provincial Director of Education & Zonal Director of Education)

a. Disciplinary control

Assistant /Deputy Director in Department of Agriculture [Approved Cadre-14 (Head Office-3, Jaffna -3, Mannar -2 , Vavuniya -2, Mullaitivu-2, Kilinochchi 2)].a. Appointment

Provincial Heads of Department

i. Sri Lanka Teacher Advisors Serviceii. Sri Lanka Teacher Serviceiii. Non staff grade Departmental service officers and primary level departmental service officers (Within their respective administrative purview)

a. Transfer

Provincial Heads of Department

i. Interdict any officers or Employees (who are serving with in the Department as per Establishment Code Chapter XLVIII Section 31 and to impose minor punishments as per the Establishment code chapter XLVIII Section 25:5 keeping informed to Appointing/Disciplinary Authorities)

a. Disciplinary control (Interdiction)

Commissioners of Municipal Councils Secretaries of Urban Council & Pradeshiya Sabha

Primary and Secondary level employees in the respective Local Authority (with the information of Commissioner of Local Government)

a. Appointment to the postb. Transferc. Disciplinary Controld. Dismissal

Local Heads (Regional/District/Zonal Level)

The power to Transfer of Minor Grade Employees (except Provincial Combined service) Under their direct respective administrative purview -a. TransferSri Lanka Teacher Service to school within their respective Zone only, shall be executed by the respective Zonal Director of education.

EOG 03 - 0098

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.