==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20161A

w;s úfYI

wxl 1985$5 - 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 19 jeks i÷od - 2016'09'19No. 1985/5 - MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2016

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 OF 2008

Notification under Section 3(2)

BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 isamended, I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in Charge of the subject of Development Strategies and InternationalTrade, in consultation with the Minister in charge of Finance, do by this Notification-

(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project for thedevelopment of Colombo Port City in two phases for the construction of wave protection breakwater, landreclamation, ground improvement, revetment, canals to connect seawater, artery roads, utilities and for transferor lease of any leasehold rights to the prospective buyers in accordance with applicable law. This Project willbring significant economic and social benefit to the country :–

(i) by the development of Colombo Port City creating a new land area in extent of Two Hundred and SixtyNine Hectares (269 Hec.) which will be given highest priority in economic development as per thedevelopment strategy of the Government ;

(ii) through the inflow of foreign exchange and the total investment of United States Dollars One ThousandThree Hundred and Thirty Seven Million (US$ 1,337 Mn) within the Project Implementation Period ofEight (08) years from the date on which the Third Supplementary Agreement is singed between theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company (“Project Implementation Period”) ;

(iii) through potential employment generation and consequent income earning opportunities for the peopleof Sri Lanka ;

(iv) by attracting secondary foreign direct investment for the development of the reclaimed land ; and

(v) by developing the planned Colombo International Finance Centre in the Colombo Port City and theconsequent large foreign exchange turnover that could be generated.

(2) The Project Company is CHEC PORT CITY COLOMBO (PRIVATE) LIMITED (“the Project Company”). The dateof commencement of implementation and commercial operations of the Project shall be within Eight (08) yearsfrom the date the Third Supplementary Agreement is signed between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka andthe Project Company.

1A

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20162A

(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in Schedule I of this Notification shall apply to the Project Company.

(4) The Project Company and M/S China Harbour Engineering Company Limited (“CHEC”) being the contractor forengineering, procurement and construction of the Project, are subsidiary companies of M/S China CommunicationsConstruction Company Limited. Therefore, the concessions morefuly described in the Schedule II below underthe provisions of Strategic Development Project s Act, No. 14 of 2008 as amended shall be applicable for theProject Implementation Period for profits to be generated through this Project by M/S China Harbour EngineeringCompany Limited.

SCHEDULE I

(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006

(i) Corporate Income Tax

The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on theProject Company on the profit and income generated from the activities from the said Project shall notapply for the period of twenty five (25) years (“Tax Exemption Period”).

The said Tax Exemption Period shall commence from the year in which the Project Company makes taxableprofit or six (06) years after commencement of construction of the project, whichever occurs earlier, excludingthe period between 6th March 2015 and 12th August 2016, the later date being the date on which theTripartite Agreement between the Project Company, the Government of Sri Lanka and the Urban DevelopmentAuthority was signed.

Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period income tax in respect of the profits andincome of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act forthe time being in force.

(ii) Tax on Dividends

Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the income taxduring the said tax exemption period of twenty five (25) years and one (01) year thereafter.

(iii) Withholding Tax

The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following ;

(a) on interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees paid to consultants ;

(b) on management fees and royalty payments provided however the total of such charges does notexceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue ;

(c) on marketing fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five per centum(1.5%) of the gross operating revenue ; and

(d) on incentive management fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed ten percentum (10%) of the gross operating profit.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20163A

(iv) Paye Tax

The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Pay as You Earn Tax(PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of thirty(30) employees at any given time. Subject to such ceiling, this exemption is available for expatriateproject implementation staff during the project implementation period and for expatriate projectoperational staff for a period of ten (10) years from the date of commencement of commercial operationsof the Project. Provided however, no single employee shall be given this exemption for a period inexcess of ten (10) years. Further, the Project Company shall be required to gradually replace expatriatestaff with local employees on a best efforts basis.

(2) Value Added Tax (VAT) Act, No. 14 of 2002

All imports of project related goods and local purchases of project related goods or services required for theimplementation of the project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exempted fromthe payment of Value Added Tax (VAT), during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years. Anycontractor or a sub-contractor who supplies to such contractor, to the Project, will be entitled to the defermentas permitted in the VAT Act.

The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of VAT as provided in the VAT Act, No. 14 of 2002 upon thecompletion of the Project Implementation Period .

Provided however, transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the project company or by the project companyto the prospective buyers in accordance with applicable law, shall be exempted from the payment of VAT.

(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) Act, No. 18 of 2011

The project company shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports DevelopmentLevy (PAL), on the project related goods as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported duringthe Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years. The exemption shall be applicable on direct importsby the Project Company for the Project or on imports by a contractor or sub-contractor for the purposes ofthe Project, so long as the consignee of such goods is the Project Company, subject to the condition referredto in item No. (08) below.

(4) The Finance Act No. 5 of 2005

The Project Company/Contractors shall be exempted from construction industry Guarantee Fund Levy imposedunder the Finance Act No. 05 of 2005 in relation to the Project.

(5) Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989

Import of project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted fromthe Excise Duty Payment during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years.

(6) The Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979

Import of project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted fromthe payment of CESS during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years.

(7) Nation Building Tax (NBT)

The Project Company, the contractor and the sub-contractors shall be exempted from the Nation Building Taxduring the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20164A

Provided Futher, transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the project company or by the project company to theprospective buyers in accordance with applicable law, shall be exempted from the payment of NBT.

(8) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items (Customs Ordinance - Chapter 235)

Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any otherproject related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported in the name of the ProjectCompany Implementing the Project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the Projectwhether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through the contractors of sub-contractors tothe contractors provided that the goods consigned in the name of the Project Company other than the itemsmentioned in the Negative List within the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years. The items in theNegative List will also be exempted from the Customs Duty where such items are either not wholly producedin Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Project completion.

As such, in general, project related goods could be imported through a contractor or a sub-contractor in respectof the project within the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years as provided above, only if the ProjectCompany is named as the consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have been done along with any otherimports, the Project Company shall be solely responsible to ensure that the concessions noted herein shall beavailable only to project related goods of the Project Company, if so, for any reason this condition has beenviolated, taxes and levies payable under laws and regulations prevailing at the time shall apply to all goods thatdo not form part of project related goods for the project and such taxes shall become payable forthwith. It is notedthat any personal effects imported by the Project Company for the private/personal use of any employee,consultant or any other of the Project Company shall not be treated as project related goods. It is further notedthat in view of the exemptions/concessions granted to the Project Company under the Strategic DevelopmentProjects Act, No. 14 of 2008, no tenant or any other party associating with the project or the Project Company willbe granted any exemptions or concessions in view of or consequent to such association in connection with theProject.

SCHEDULE II

(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006

(i) Corporate Income Tax

The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on theChina Harbour Engineering Company Ltd. (“CHEC”) on the profit and income generated from the activitiesfrom the said Project shall not apply for a period of eight (08) years.

The said Tax Exemption Period of Eight (08) years shall commence from the year in which the China HarbourEngineering Company Ltd. (“CHEC”) commences the construction of the Project, but excluding the periodbetween 6th March, 2015 and 12th August 2016, the later date being the date on which the TripartiteAgreement between the Project Company, the Government of Sri Lanka and the Urban DevelopmentAuthority was signed.Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period of Eight (08) years, income tax inrespect of the profits and income of the China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd. (“CHEC”) shall bepayable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.

MALIK SAMARAWICKRAMA, MP,Minister of Development Strategiesand International Trade,on this 19th day of September, 2016.

10-15

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.