==== BLOCKS ==== 

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.20191A

SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL DAYCARE CENTER STATUTENo. 07 OF 2019 SOUTHERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL

I, Hewa Gampalage Manoj Sirisena, Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs, Rural Development, Cultural and Arts Affairs, SocialWelfare, Probation and Childcare Services, Women Affairs and Home Economic Promotion, Housing and Construction andMan power and Employment of Southern Provincial Council hereby inform the General public that the Daycare Center StatuteNo.07 of 2019 of approved by the Southern Provincial Council on 08.04.2019 for which assent was given by the Hon. Governorof the Southern Province on 09.04.2019 is enacted on 09th April 2019.

HEWA GAMPALAGE MANOJ SIRISENA,Minister of Sports and Youth Affairs,Rural Development, Cultural and Arts Affairs,Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare Services,Women Affairs and Home Economic Promotion,Housing and Construction and Man powerand Employment of Southern Provincial Council.

Office of the Minister of the Ministry of Sports,3rd Floor, Dakshinapaya, Labuduwa, Galle,09th April, 2019.

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A – PG4494 – 10 (04/2019)

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS

Provincial Councils Notifications

wxl 2120$29 – 2019 wfm%a,a ui 27 jeks fikiqrdod – 2019'04'27No. 2120/29 – SATURDAY, APRIL 27, 2019

2AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2019

Daycare Centre Statute No. 07 of 2019

A statute to provide for the registration, supervision, development and administration of the daycare Centres of the Southern Province and provide for other matters connected therewith or incidentalthereto.

Be it enacted by the Southern Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka:

01. This statute may be cited as the Daycare Centre Draft Statute No. 07 of 2019 of the Southern ProvincialCouncil and it (hereinafter referred to as the date of operation) shall come into operation on such dateas the Governor of the Southern Province may give his consent thereto.

02. The Objectives of this statute shall be as follows:

(a) To carry out full supervision in respect of the daycare centres of the province which helpsparents with their children’s care and growth by providing care during any period of time of theday outside their homes for children from four months to twelve years, and to undertake the fullresponsibility of the children during the time when children spend in the Centre.

(b) To creates an environment conducive to the children’s physical and mental development of theDaycare Centres within the province.

Part I

Establishment of steering board and its powers and functions.

03. There shall be established a steering board (hereinafter referred to as the board ) for the purpose ofimplementing the functions of the statute.

04. (1) The board shall consists of –

(a) The ex-office members, namely -

(i) The Secretary of the Ministry in Charge of the subject of Social Welfare, Probationand Childcare Services of the Province to be the Chairmen;(ii) The Commissioner of the Department of Social Welfare, Probation and ChildcareServices of the Province to be the Secretary;(iii) The Commissioner of the Local Government of the Province;(iv) The Director of Health Services of the Province;(v) The Director of Education of the Province;(vi) The Deputy/Assistant Commissioner of the Probation and Childcare Services;(vii) The Deputy/Assistant Director of Social Welfare;(viii) Three Senior Probation Officers of Galle, Matara, Hambantota;(ix) Three child right promotion officers of Galle, Matara, Hambantota;(x) District childcare officers of the three District of Galle, Matara, Hambantota;

(b) Three persons to be appointed by the Minister in Charge of the subject in the Province(hereinafter referred to as appointed members);

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of the board if –

(a) he is or become a member of Parliament or a Provincial Council or a local authority;(b) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in another Country found or declared to be ofunsound mind;(c) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka orany other country;

Short Titleand date ofoperation.

Objective of theStatute.

TheEstablishment ofsteering board.

Compositionand term ofoffice of theboard.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.20193A

(d) he has been declared to be an insolvent or undischarged bankrupt under any law in force inSri Lanka or in any other country; or(e) he has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the discharge by himof funcitons as a member of the board.

(3) Every appointed member shall hold the office of the board as long as he hold the office inaccordance with which he becomes a member of the board.

(4)(a) Every appointed member of the board shall unless he vacates office earlier by death,resignaiton or removal, hold office for three years from the date of his appointment andshall, unless he has been removed from office be, eligible for reappointment.(b) The Minister may, where he considers it suitable to do so, for reasons assigned, remove anappointed member from office.(c) Any appointed member may at any time resign his office as such member by a letter in thatbehalf addressed to the Minister by registered post.(d) Where any appointed members vacates his office by reason of death, resignation or removal,the Minister may having regard to the provisions of paragrahp (b), appoint any othermember to succeed that member. A member appointed so shall hold office for the unexpiredperiod of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(5) No act or decision or proceeding of the board shall be invalidated by reason only of the existenceof a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment of a member thereof.

(6) Member of the board may be paid such remuneration as may be determined with the approval ofthe Governor.

(7)1. Meetings of the board shall be held at least once in every three month. However, theMinister or at least seven members of the board may request the Secretary of the board tocall a special meeting of the aboard, and he shall summon a special meeting of the boardwithin seven days from the date of the request.

2. The Secretary of the board shall give every member seven days prior notice of the meetingin writing.

3. The quorum for every meeting shall be seven members.

4. The chairman shall preside at every meeting of the board, in the absence of the chairmanfrom any such meeting the members present at the meeting shall elect from among themselvesan ex-office member to preside at that meeting.

5. Where, at a meeting of a board, voting results in a tie, the person presiding such meetingshall, in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

6. Subject to the provisions of this statute, the board may regulate the procedure in regard tomeetings and the transactions of business of such meetings.

(8) The board shall discharge the following functions.

(a) To provide guidelines and assistance for the improvement of the standards of daycarecenters.(b) To require by rules, minimum standards for daycare centers.(c) To require by rules, minimum educational and vocational qualifications which the staff ofthe daycare centre should have.

Any act notto be invaliddue to vacancies.

Remuneration ofmembers of theboard meetingsof the board.

Functions of theboard.

4AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2019

(d) To require by rules, such standards as may be necessary for providing care for children withspecial needs.(e) To make such rules, as may be necessary for achieving the objectives of this statute.

Part II

Establishment of daycare centres -

(9)1. The Secretary of a Daycare centre hereinafter defined shall make an application to thecommissioner on a prescribed form for the registration of that daycare centres.

2. The Commissioner may request from the applicant such information or documents as hemay considers to be necessary for the purpose of looking into whether the daycare centrefor which an application for registration is made is subject to the terms and conditions ofthis statute.

(10)1. There shall be a governing body (hereinafter referred to as the committee) consisting ofChairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer for the purpose of maintaining a daycarecentre.

(a) a person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of thecommittee, if he(i) is or becomes a member of parliament or any provincial council or any localauthority,(ii) is an officer appointed for duties in respect of child affairs by Judicial ServiceCommission or an officer or police officer of a Ministry, Department, Institutionor Authority engaged in supervision or duties in respect of childcare services, or(iii) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country, found or declared tobe of unsound mind, or(iv) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court inSri Lanka or any other country, or(v) is a person who has not been acquitted and discharged after trial by a court inrespect of child abuse and delinquency, or(vi) is a person who has been declared an insolvent or undischarged bankruptunder any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other country, or(vii) Has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the dischargeby him of his functions as a member of the committee.

(b) The Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer shall be citizens of Sri Lanka, and at leastthree persons of the members shall be residents in the Divisional Secretary’s Divisionin which the daycare Centre is situated.

(c) At least three persons of the members of the committee shall be parents whosechildren attend the daycare Centre, and the chief matron of the daycare Centre shallbe the Secretary of the committee.

2. Activities of the daycare Centre shall be carried out in accordance with such standards asmay be prescribed by the board by such rules as may be referred to in Para (b), (c) and (d) ofSection 8.

(11) Where the commissioner receives an application or a complaint to the effect that a daycare Centreis operated without approval, a probation officer or any other officer authorized by thecommissioner shall be required to submit a report on following facts within four weeks.

Applications forRegistration ofDaycareCentres.

Requirement forRegistration.

Reports.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.20195A

(a) Whether that Daycare Centre provides the maximum welfare of its children; and(b) Whether that Daycare Centre has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulatedunder Sub section (10).1 and (10).2.(i) At Least Fifty percent of the standards imposed under Subsection (10).2 shall becompleted.(ii) The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the Commissioner with regard to thefact that the balance of the standards requirement is completed before expiry of twoyears from the date of registration of the said Daycare Centre.

(12) Where the report under Section 11 is received, the Commissioner or any other Officer Authorizedby him may enter that Daycare Centre at any time to inspect whether that Daycare Centre providethe services for the Welfare and Protection of the Children of that Daycare Centre and whetherthat Daycare Center acts in accordance with the expected standards.

(13) The Commissioner shall take action to register that Daycare Centre within Six months from thedate of submission of the application if the Commissioner reasonably satisfies himself after theinspection under the section 12.

(14)(1) The Commissioner shall issue to the Secretary of the Daycare Centre a certificate ofregistration in the prescribed form for the Registration of the Daycare Centre after theprescribed fee is paid. Such certificate of registration shall be valid for a period two years.

(2) Where an agreement is entered into under Sub paragraph (11)(b).i, a provisional certificateof registration which is valid for only Six month shall be issued.

(3) Any certificate of registration issued under Sub sections (1) and (2) cannot be transferred toany person, and accordingly such a transfer is null and void.

(4) Every certificate issued under Sub sections (1) and (2) shall be exhibited on the head officeor the complex of the Daycare Centre at all times by the person authorized by that certificate.

(5) The commissioner shall maintain a register in the prescribed form consisting of the name,address, registration number and date of the Daycare Centre and such other information asthe commissioner may consider necessary in respect of the Daycare Centre which areregistered by issuing certificates by the Commissioner.

(6) The Commissioner shall, where necessary submit to the meetings of the board a report inrespect of the Daycare Centres which he has registered under Subsections (1) and (2).

(15) Any Person holding a certificate issued under this statute, hall within 30 days of such changeinform the Commissioner of any change of any particulars in the application for registration underthis stature.

(16)1. (a) An application shall be made to the Commissioner in a prescribed form for renewal ofregistration three calendar months prior to the expiry of validity period of a certificate ofregistration issued under this statute out - lining, if any alterations to the informationprovided for the registration of the expiring certificate of registration.

Inspections

Registration

Issue of thecertificate ofregistration.

The commi-ssioner to beinformed of anychange ininformaion inthe applicationfor registration

Renewal ofcertificaties.

6AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2019

(b) If the commissioner is satisfied that the prescribed standard are met, he shall renew theregistration after payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) (a) An application is made to the commissioner in a prescribed form for registration acalendar month prior to the expiry of the provisional certificate of registration issuedunder this statute out lining, if any alterations the to the information provided for theregistration of the expiring certificate of registration.

(b) If the Commissioner is satisfied that such factors as may be necessary to comply withthe stipulated standards is making progress towards completion, the provisionalregistration shall be renewed as valid for six months. Action shall be taken to get theprovisional registration renewed once in every Six month until the end of contractualperiod.

(17)(1) The Commissioner shall have the following powers in respect of the Daycare Centre whichhe has registered.

(a) To enter and inspect at any reasonable time of the day the places within which DaycareCentres are operated.(b) To require the Secretary of any Daycare centers within the province to provides recordsand information.(c) To register Daycare Centres operated in the province.(d) To provide assistance for the maintenance of Daycare Centres, if the Commissionerreasonable satisfy himself.(e) To implement seminars, workshops and training programs for matrons of the DaycareCentre.

(2) Where the Commissioner considers it necessary to delegate to any officer performing dutiesunder him any of his powers conferred by this statute for the efficient implementation ofprovisions of the statute; the Commissioner may delegate any of such power to the saidofficer.

(18)(1) No person shall establish or operates a Daycare Centre except under the authority of acertificate of registration issued under this statute and in conformity with terms and conditionsthereof from the date of commencement of this statute or thereafter.

(2) Any person who operates a Daycare Centre prior to the date of implementation of thisstatute may operate it for a period of Six months from the date on which this statute comesinto effect and but an application is made for registration and a certificate shall be obtainedunder the provision this statute.

(19) Where it is revealed by the inspection done under section 12 on receipt of the report undersection II that the requirements in paras under sub section (10) 1. And (10) 2. and sub paras hasnot been met, the Commissioner shall inform the Secretary of the committee that the DaycareCentre cannot be registered.

(20) Where the Secretary of the Daycare Centre who is not satisfied with the notice to reject theregistration issued by the Commissioner shall submit an appeal to the secretary (hereinafterreferred to as secretary of the Ministry) of the Minister in charge of the subject in the provincewithin fourteen days from the date of that notice.

(21)(1) The Secretary of the Ministry or body of persons consisting of Three officers holding postscomparable or superior to the post of the Commissioner or three pensioners holding suchposts appointed by the Secretary of the Minsitry shall hold an inquiry.

Power of theCommissioner.

A Daycare Centrenot to beoperated withouta certificate ofregistration.

Rejection ofregistration

An appeal to besubmitted to thesecretary of theMinistry

Decision by thesecretary of theMinister withregard to appeals

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.20197A

(2) The decision of the inquiry shall be as follows.

(a) To inform the secretary of the daycare Centre in writing of reasons to reject theregistration of the daycare Centre.(b) To advice the commissioner to take necessary action to register the daycare Centre.(c) To provide concessionary period not more than a year under paragraphs and subparagraphs of sub section (10). 1, and (10). 2 and to advise the commissioner toapprove the registration of the daycare Centre if it is so fulfilled.

(22) Any party which is not satisfied with a decision given under section 21 may submit an appeal tothe Minister within fourteen days from the date of the decision.

(23) Where an appeal is received under Section 22, a body of persons consisting of three publicofficers holding posts comparable or superior to the post of the secretary of the Ministry of threeretired officers holding such posts shall hold an inquiry with regard to the appeal and the Ministershall give his decision in accordance with sub sections 21 (22) (a), (b) or (c) and the report of theinquiry.

(24) The secretary of the daycare Centre shall be the only person capable of acting with the departmentwith regard to all matters of the daycare Centre.

Part III

Administration of the daycare Centre and other matters relevant thereto.

(25) The secretary, committee and staff of the daycare Centre shall follow or implement such instructionor orders as the commissioner or any officer authorized by him may give in respect of the welfareof the children of daycare Centre or respect of its administration.

(26)1. The commissioner or such other officer as may be authorized by him may by notice inwriting require the secretary of a daycare Centre to provide any information or returnswithin the time specified in such notice.

2. Where such information or returns are provided by the secretary of the daycare Centre heshall avoid providing incorrect or false information.

Part IV

Cancellation of the registration of a daycare Centre

(27) If the commissioner reasonably satisfies himself after an inquiry held by him in the followingoccasions, he may cancel a certificate of registration issued under this statute.

(a) On an occasion when a resolution in respect of which the daycare Centre cannot be carriedon is passed and the commissioner has been informed thereof.

(b) After the holder of a certificate is given an opportunity to shows causes where thecommissioner is satisfied that the holder of a certificate or the committee or the staff of adaycare Centre has contravened any order or rule or provision or has defaulted on theimplementation of instructions or orders given by the commissioner or any officer authorizedby him or has defaulted the provision of Information or returns prescribed or has providedincorrect or false information.

Appeals may besubmitted to theMinister

The decision bythe Ministerin respect ofappeals

Secretary to actfor thecommittee

Instruction to befollowed andorders to becarried out

Information andreturns to beprovided

Cancellation ofregistration

8AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2019

(c) On an occasion when intended standards are not met even though the contractual periodwith the commissioner has expired where provisional certificate of registration has beenissued under above Sub section (14). 2

(28) Where the commissioner decides to cancel registration of a daycare Centre under paras 27(a), (b)and (c), he shall inform the secretary of a daycare Centre thereof within thirty days from the dateof that decision.

(29) Where the secretary of a daycare Centre who is not satisfied with the notice of the cancellation ofregistration issued by the commissioner may make appeal to the secretary of the Ministry withinseven days from the date of the notice.

(30)1. Where the secretary of the Ministry receives an appeal under section 29 the secretary of theMinistry shall follow the one of the following processes after an inquiry held by him or abody of three persons appointed by him consisting of three public officers holding suchposts as may be comparable or superior to the post of the commissioner or three retiredofficers who held such posts.

(a) To confirm the cancellation of registration.(b) To annual the decision of the commissioner in respects of the cancellation of registration.

2. The secretary of a daycare Centre shall be informed of the decision of the secretary of theMinistry with a copy to the commissioner within a month of the receipt of the appeal.

(31) A party which is not satisfied with a decision given under Sub section (30). 1. may within sevendays from the date of that decision, make an appeal to the Minister for the final decision.

(32) Where an appeal is received under Sub section (31), a board of three public officers holding postscomparable or superior to the posts of the secretary of the Ministry or three retired public officerswho held such posts shall hold an inquiry into the appeal and the Minister shall, in accordancewith the report of that inquiry inform the secretary of the daycare Centre in writing of his decisionunder Para (30). (a) or (b) with a copy to the commissioner within a month from the date of thereceipt of the appeal.

Part V

To prescribe standards for daycare Centres.

(33) The board shall make rules for prescribing relevant standards in respect of opening hours of thedaycare Centre, physical facilities of the daycare Centre activity plan for the children, minimumstaff and such other matters as may be considered to be necessary.

(34) No person shall be qualified for the appointment for a post of a daycare Centre except with suchminimum standards as may be prescribed by rules for each post of the staff of the daycare Centre.

(35) The commissioner shall maintain for the staff of a daycare Centre a register with names andqualifications.

(36) The commissioner shall maintain an institute under him to conduct courses or training programsfor the staffs of daycare Centres.

Notice to cancelregistration.

Appeals to bemade to thesecretary of theMinistry.

Decision of thesecretary withregard to theappeal.

An appeal maybe made to theMinister.

Decision of theMinister withregard to anappeal.

The board tomake rules inrespect ofstandards.

Qualifications ofthe staff.

A register to bemaintained forthe staff.

An instituteconductingtraining coursesfor staffs to bemaintained.

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.20199A

(37) The commissioner shall maintain a register to enter names and course details of private educaionalinstitutes conducting such courses and training programs as the board may consider to besuitable for the members of staffs of daycare Centre to follow for or in addition to the coursesconducted by the institute established under section 3. b.

Part VI

Offences and penalties

(38) Where a person or a committee has

(a) Contravened the provisions of this statute, used funds contrary to the objectives of thisstatute; or misused funds;(b) Has neglected to furnish any information or returns to be submitted in accordance with anorder made under this statute.(c) Knowingly included fales information in such information or returns to be provided;(d) has neglected to comply with the provisions this statute or any direction or order giventhere under,such person or each member of such committee has committed an offence.

(39) A person who commits any offence under this statute shall be guilty of an offence and onconviction after summary trial before a magistrate be liable to a fine not exceedingRupees Twenty Five Thousand or to a imprisonment of either description for a period not exceedingthree months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Part VII

(40)(a) The Minister may make regulations to implement and enforce any provisions of this statute.

(b) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation on the date of such publication on such later date as may be specified in theregulation.

(c) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be brought before the Provincial Council. Anysuch regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof its disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previoulsly done thereunder.

(41)(a) The board may make rules in respect of all matters required by this statute to be prescribedor in respect of which rules are authorized by this statute to be made.

(b) The rules made by the board shall be published in the Gazette by the Minister, and shallcome into force on the date of its publication in the Gazette or any such later date as may bespecified in such publication.

(42) In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires -

“Governor” means the Governor of the Southern Province;“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Social Welfare, Probation andChildcare Services of the Provincial Council;“Secretary of the Ministry” means the Secretary of the Ministry of the minister in charge ofthe subject of Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare Services of the Provincial Council.“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Department of Social Welfare, Probationand Childcare Services of the Provincial Council.

A register to bemaintained inrespect ofprivateeducationalinstituteconductingTrainingprograms forstaffs.

Offences.

Penalties

Power of theMinister to makeorders

Power of thecommittee tomake rules

10AIV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2019'04'27PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.04.2019

“Department” means the Department of Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare Services ofthe Provincial Council.

“Province” means the Southern Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

“Provincial Council” means the Southern Provincial Council established under the ProvincialCouncils Act, No. 42 of 1987.“Child ” means persons from four (4) months to twelve (12) years of age;“Child with special needs ” means a persons from four (4) months to twelve (12) years of agewho has turned into the position referred to in the meaning given to the person withdisabilities in the Act, No. 28 of 1996 for the registration of persons with disabilities.“Prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made under this statute.

(43) In the event of inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this statute, the Sinhala textshall prevail.

05 – 203

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.

Sinhala textto prevail incase ofinconsistency