==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20171A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2027$4 - 2017 cQ,s ui 10 jeks i`ÿod - 2017'07'10No. 2027/4 - MONDAY, JULY 10, 2017

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Miscellaneous Departmental Notices

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A - PG 3600— 107 (07/2017)

BODHIRAJARAMA EDUCATIONAL AND CULTURAL FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

Publishing the Rules of Foundation as per the Section 7(4) ,abided by in accordance with the Section 7(1) ofthe Bodhirajarama Educational and Cultural Foundation incorporated Act, No. 28 of 2014

WHEREAS it is announced that following rules were compiled and agreed at the General Meeting held by its memberson 18th May 2015 and as per the provision contained in the section 7 (1) of the Bodhirajarama Educational and CulturalFoundation incorporation Act, No. 28 of 2014.

(Bodhirajarama Educational and Cultural Foundation was Incorporated by Act, No 28 of 2014)

Rules made, agreed and applauded by its members at the General Meeting held on 18th May 2015

“Incorporation of Bodhirajarama Educational and Cultural Foundation”(A volunteer social Services organization)

RULES OF THE FOUNDATION

1. This foundation, shall function within the boundaries defined and concept stipulated in the BodhirajaramaEducational and Cultural Foundation (incorporation) Act, No 28 of 2014 and volunteer Social ServicesOrganization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1981.

2.(a) The foundation is formed with the members of the incorporation of the Bodhirajarama Educational andCultural Foundation.

(b) All Members of the Foundation shall be functioned without any profit intention.

3. Objects of the foundation shall be executed without any partisan of race, religion, languages, gender, politicalviews, place of birth or any other matters.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20172A

Membership

4.(a) All the members of the Foundation shall work in order to achieve the objects of the Foundation.

(b) Members of the Foundation shall be dedicated and devoted personal for social services and adhere toguide the people services.

(c) Foresaid any qualified persons in the above(a) and (b) categories shall be included as a Members to theFoundation at a General assembly subjected to the recommendation of the working committee of theFoundation

(d) A membership record ledger shall be maintained.

5. Categorizing the membership

i. Founder member -Founder and first member of the foundation is Rev. Uwathenna Sumana MahaThero.

ii. Initial Members –Members who dedicated their services in order to establish the foundation are initial members.

iii. Honorary members-Institutions and Persons, who are capable of serving for the foundation shall be offered honorarymembership at a General assembly subjected to the recommendation of the working committee, shall bethe honorary members of the foundation .These honorary members shall not have the voting right in anelection at any General assembly.

iv. Life time members –With the recommendation of the working committee, any initial member or institution or any member ofsuch institutions can be offered the lifetime membership of the Foundation.

v. Members of allied organizations-Allied organization shall be established and functioned in order to achieve the Common objects of thefoundation and for such every professional organizations established by the foundation shall be providedone membership to represent at the General assembly .Any such representative members of foresaidorganization cannot vote at the General Meeting.

6. Persons or organizations seek membership of the Foundation should obtain the membership by submitting aduly filled membership application form, hereinbefore with the recommendation of the working committeesubjected to approval given at the General meeting, by only and after paying the membership fee, the membershipcan be obtained.

7. Annual membership fee is Rs. 1000.00 and allied organization membership fee is Rs. 5000.00. After expirationor termination of the membership or withdrawal from membership foresaid membership fee shall not berefunded.

8. Termination of membership

(a) Due to death or resignation or

(b) Due to the submission of membership cancellation at the General assembly as per the prior decision ofthe working committee and the chairman, the membership would be terminated or

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20173A

(c) Membership can be cancelled at the General meeting with the recommendation of the working committeedue to become mentally unsound or violation the rules and regulations of the Foundation or and notincompliance with objectives of the foundation.

Organizational structure

9. Chairman -It shall be accepted that the founder member Rev. Uwathenna Sumana Maha Thero is the chairman ofthe foundation

10. Rev. Uwathenna Sumana Maha Thero the Founder member (chairperson) shall be offered the lifetime membershipof the foundation.

11. Advices of the Rev. Uwathenna Sumana MahaThero and his role in the foundation shall be regarded as foremostadvice in leading and guiding the foundation.

12. Senior Deputy Chairman-

A member elected by the members at the General meeting as a vice chair for the working council can beappointed as senior vice chair with the consent of the chairman.

13. Deputy Chairmen

Two members shall be elected by the members for the post of Deputy Chair at the General Meeting.

14. General Secretary

A member should be elected by the members at the General Meeting for the post of the General Secretary. aswell He/she shall be the secretary to the working committee . And general secretary is responsible for Maintainingand updating the membership record book, convene the general meetings and working council meetings, preparinggeneral meeting minutes and working committee reports and submitting the relevant reports to the annualgeneral meetings, and working committee.

15. Deputy General Secretary and General Secretary for International Affairs.

A member should be elected at the general meeting for the post of Deputy General Secretary cum GeneralSecretary for International Affairs. He should assist the duties of General Secretary. In addition, he shouldcoordinate the international matter.

16. Treasurer

A member should be elected at the general meeting for the post of treasurer. All the deed and documents relatedto the properties of the foundation should be at the custody of the Treasurer. Audited annual financial reportshould be submitted to General meeting by the treasure. Treasurer should be responsible proper keeping thebank accounts of the foundation, and responsible to get duties done by the accountant and staff as well facilitatingthe audit works.

17. Legal Advisor

Legal advisory services should be provided.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20174A

Working committee or Board of Management

18. Working committee or Board of management:

Working committee is responsible for Managing and administrating the incorporation. Management of thefunds also is a responsibility of the working committee. The working committee consists of seven membersincluding Chairman, Senior Deputy Chairman, Deputy Chairman, General Secretary, Deputy GeneralSecretary, Treasurer and Legal advisor. Chairman of the Foundation shall be the head of the working committee.

19. Tenure of the working committee is three years.

20. Members and working committee members who have completed the service period have the opportunity toreappoint to the working committee.

21. At least two (02) female members should be represented in the working committee.

22. Working committee reserves the right to remove a working committee member on the recommendation of theadministrative / disciplinary and welfare sub-committee if he /she breaches the rules of the foundation, evenbefore completion of his/her official period.

23.(a) Whereas a member resign from the committee in accordance with section 5 (3. a) of the Act, anothermember shall be appointed to the working committee.

(b) Office period of the successor shall be equal to the remaining office period of the resigned member.

24. Revision of constitute of the working committee membership shall beat the discretion of General meeting.

25. Working committee reserves the rights to decide the matters related to the objectives and activities foundation.

26. Working committee convenes regularly to make decisions and execute the decision.

27. All the decisions taken at the working committee shall be enacted only after the endorsement by the chairperson.

28. Working committee chair shall endorse or reject the decisions taken at the working committee.

29. Working committee shall delegate some power to another party as and when necessary.

30. Working committee shall review the proposal submitted by General Assembly and forward to chairperson withamendments if necessary for the approval of Chairperson.

31. An office shall be established by the Foundation to execute the activities.

32. Working committee shall appoint a salaried chief executive officer and staff to execute the activities of thefoundation.

33. The working committe shall prepare an operational manual to carry out the activities of the foundation andimplementation the policies set out by the working committee to be executed by the Chief Executive Officerand his staff.

34. According to section 6(f) of the Act, a management structure and recruitment procedure, including employeecomposition and recruitment criteria shall be decided by the working committee.

35. As per the section 6 of the Act, the working committee shall execute all the administration and managementactivities of the Foundation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20175A

36. Finance for maintaining the office and staff shall be made from the common fund of the foundation by theworking committee.

37. In an event of vacation of chairman position due to decease of the position holder, the senior deputy chairmanshall succeed the chairman position for remaining period of the office. He shall be re-elected by the membersfor the chairman position at the General Assembly

Sub committees

38.(a) Working Committee shall appoint sub committees mentioned below As per the management requirementsfrom the members of the General Assembly

1. Finance and fund raising committee2. Management and audit committee3. Administration / disciplinary and welfare committee4. Education / training / International relations and special tasks committee5. Promotion / media / sponsorship committee

(b) Each sub-committee consists of five members. Any member of General Assembly except the honorarymembers shall be appointed to the sub-committees.

Affiliated organizations

39. To achieve the general objectives of the Foundation as per section 3(1) of the act, foundation shall establishaffiliated organizations and execute them.

40. Organizations of the following trades shall be accepted as affiliated organizations of the foundation.

National Patriotic ForceNational Organization of Patriotic Mobile Venders.National Organization of Patriotic Street VendersNational Organization of Patriotic All Trishaw Service Providers.National Organization of Patriotic Bus Drivers and ConductorsNational Organization of Patriotic Private Bus OwnersNational Organization of Patriotic Brave womenPatriotic Centre for Sustainable EnvironmentThe Society of Patriotic Apprentice ArtistsNational Organization of Patriotic YouthsNational Patriotic Origination of Small and Medium Scale Entrepreneurs

41. As per section 3(1) of act, Foundation shall establish partner organizations and be partnering with otherorganizations to achieve the objectives of the foundation.

Fund of the Foundation

42. Foundation shall have its own fund as per section 9(1) of the act.

43.(a) Fund shall be raised by the working committee on behalf of the Foundation. All such funds and grantsraised be the fund of the Foundation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20176A

(b) Fund shall be raised by:

· Member’s fees, subscription, contributions, fees, donations and grants.· Income on the investments of Foundation· Local and Foreign aid· Government provisions· Local and foreign loans· Micro Finance fund and the income.Financial Management

44.(a) Management the fund of the foundation should be done by the working committee and chair of theFoundation.(b) All the fund raised on behalf of the Foundation shall be debited to the fund of Foundation and funds shallbe deposited to the bank accounts of the Foundation.(c) Opening of bank accounts, closing of bank accounts and transferring such fund shall be made by the chairof the foundation and the working committee or on the prior approval of the working committee.(d) Working committee shall spend the fund for the purposes stipulated in the section 6 of the act of thefoundation.

45.(a) Chair and the Treasurer shall be the signatories for all withdrawals from the bank accounts, issuing ofcheques and related transactions.(b) All the payments shall be approved of the chairperson.(c) Withdrawals from fund for the requirements for payment for staff and office maintenance shall be donewith the approval of the chairperson.(d) Financial year of the foundation should be January 01st to December 31st.(e) Audited annual final accounts of the foundation shall be submitted by the treasurer to the General Assembly.(f) In order to systemize the financial transaction of the foundation, a financial manual shall be prepared andenacted by the working committee.(h) Foundation shall open and maintain separate and different bank accounts as per the requirements of thedonors for the funds received from the donors. .(i) Foundation shall have right to maintain special reserve funds and bank accounts as per the requirements ofthe foundation.

Election

46. Foundation shall convene Annual General Meetings.

47. All the working committee members and members of the sub-committees shall be appointed at the annualgeneral meeting.

48. Patrons and advisors shall be nominated based on the recommendations of the working committee.

49. All the rules and regulations of the foundation shall be made based on the vote of two third majority of participantsin the general meeting.

50. Rules and regulations of the foundation shall be annulled, amended, revised or added on the vote of two thirdmajority of the participant attended at the annual General meeting.

51. Quorum of the annual General meeting is one third of members of the foundation.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20177A

52.A) All other members except honorary members shall have the right to caste one vote in the annual GeneralMeeting.b) In case of equal votes for and opposed for a matter on voting, the Chair of the Annual General Meetingshall have the right to cast the deciding vote

53. The senior deputy chair at the annual general meeting should submit annual report of the Foundation.

Common seal

54.(a) Foundation should have common seal(b) Stamping the common seal of the Foundation in front of two members shall be valid.(c) Common seal of the Foundation shall be kept always under the custody of a member of the workingcommittee.

Annual General Meeting

55.a) Members of the foundation should hold the meetings at least once a year.b) By submitting a written request of 2/3 of members of the working committee to the chairperson or to theworking committee, a general meeting can be convened.c)(i) written notice to convene the general meeting and its agenda shall be notified to the members sevendays prior to the meeting by the Secretary with the approval of the working committee.(ii) Reports for the General meetings shall be kept by the working committee.(iii) Register with the signatures of the participants who participated in the General meeting shall bekept by the working committee.d) General Secretary shall prepare the minutes of the General Assembly.

Authorities, Responsibilities and Scope of the Working Committee.

56. Working committee shall function in order to achieve the objectives and expectations of the Foundation.

57. The founder and the first member of the Foundation shall be the Head of the working committee.

58. The Head of the working committee shall direct the working committee.

59.(a) Working committee shall meet whenever necessary.(b) Written notice for holding a working committee meeting and its agenda should be sent to the members ofthe working committee seven days prior to the meeting by the Head of the working committee.(c) All reports relevant to the working committee shall be kept in safe.

60. The Head of Working Committee shall delegate the duties and powers to any of members of the workingcommittee, changing the powers or annulling the powers delegated or any related matters, at his discretion.

61.(a) Working Committee shall appoint operating staff members for administration and management of thefunctions and activities to achieve the objectives of the foundationb) Working committee shall have the rights to appoint the members of the foundation for operating staff.

62. The working committee shall spend fund for projects on social services, and allied services implemented by theFoundation.

63.(a) Working committee shall receive and coordinate the advisors and sponsors on behalf of the foundation.(b) Working committee shall recommend General Assembly to award honorary membership to the advisorsand sponsors, whenever necessary.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'10PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 10.07.20178A

64. Working committee shall decide on the expenditure on maintain the head office, branch offices and the operatingstaff.

65.(a) Properties and assets of the foundation shall be administered and managed by the working committee.(b) Properties and assets of the foundation shall be protected by the working committee.

66. The working committee shall maintain proper accounts on income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andother transactions.

67. All the activities, assets and liabilities owned by Bodhirajarama foundation prior to the establishment of thefoundation shall be transferred to the foundation as same as the all the activities, assets and liabilities.

68. Accounts of the foundation should be audited as per section 10 (1), (2), (3),(4),(a),(b) of the act of the foundationas per section 154 of the constitution Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

69.(a) Annual report for the activities of the foundation shall be prepared by the working committee.(b) Aforesaid report shall be submitted in the annual general meeting.

70. All the members of the foundation shall abide with rules regulations of the foundation.

71. These rules shall be published in the gazettes of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

72. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this rules and regulations, theSinhala text shall prevail.

Chairman,Bodhirajarama Educational and Cultural Foundation.

07-784

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.