==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1922$4 - 2015 cQ,s ui 07 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2015'07'07No. 1922/4 - TUESDAY JULY 07, 2015

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1AThis Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

THE CIVIL AVIATION ACT No. 14 OF 2010

Order under Section 6

APPOINTMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDERS

BY virtue of powers vested in me as the Minister of Aviation under Section 6 of the Civil Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010, I,Reginald Cooray do hereby, subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Schedule-I hereto, appoint the Airport andAviation Services (SL) Ltd., (the Statutory Service Provider appointed under the Act aforementioned) as a Service Providerwith effect from date hereof for providing the following Aeronautical Services at Mattala Rajapakse lnternational Airport,Mattala, Hambantota as specified in the Schedule II.

a. Provision of Ground Handling Facilities and Services.b. Provision of assistance or equipment for dispatch of aircraft on the apron including aircraft cleaningservicesREGINALD COORAY,Minister of Aviation.25th June, 2015Battaramulla.SCHEDULE I

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT

1. In providing the facilities or services specified in Schedule II, the Service Provider shall conform to the applicablelegal provisions in the Civil Aviation Act No. 14 of 2010 and any Regulation, Rule or Implementing Standard made thereunderor any other written law, as may be applicable;

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.20152A

2. The Service Provider shall comply with any general or special direction given either by the Minister or theCivil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka as the case may be, from time to time as to the discharge of duties, functions andresponsibilities of the Service Provider;

3. The Service Provider shall maintain in good order all movable and immovable properties which are sublet by theStatutory Service Provider for the wellbeing and development of air transport industry and shall not give such movable orimmovable property on lease to any third party;

4. Every contract entered into by the Service Provider after the date hereof in respect of any facility or ServiceProvided by the Service Provider under this Order, be deemed to be a contract entered into by the Service Provider on hisown behalf and not on behalf of the State and shall not bind the State in any manner;

5. On demand by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister or Civil Aviation Authority in writing, the ServiceProvider shall furnish to the Secretary or the Civil Aviation Authority as the case may be, with all relevant informationconcerning any administrative, operational, technical or financial matters pertaining to the provision of any facility or serviceunder this appointment;

6. The Service Provider shall comply with the applicable requirements stipulated by the Civil Aviation Authority ofSri Lanka or Director General of Civil Aviation as the case may be and obtain requisite licenses or certificates as applicable,for provision of aeronautical services specified in the Schedule II ensuring that such facilities and/or services wouldcontinue to be maintained in conformity with the applicable International Standards and Recommended Practices or anyRequirements published by the Civil Aviation Authority or Director General of Civil Aviation as the case may be;

7. The Service Provider shall ensure that the personnel, equipment, tools, facilities, services, and procedures usedby him to provide the Aeronautical Services herein authorized, has the requisite licence, rating, permit, approval or authorizationsissued by the Director General of Civil Aviation, as the case may be and where applicable.

8. The Service Provider shall pay the requisite fees to the Civil Aviation Authority in obtaining the requisite Licenceor Certificate as applicable and maintenance thereof.

9. The Service Provider shall not alter, suspend or stop provision of any service mentioned in Schedule II withoutapproval from the Minister in writing;

10. It is the duty of the service Provider to arrange a sufficient insurance cover to the satisfaction of the CivilAviation Authority to meet the potential liabilities or compensations that may arise during the Service Provider’s operationsand the State will not be liable for such liabilities or compensation;

11. The Minister reserves the right to revoke the validity of the appointment of Service Provider made in terms of thisOrder at any time if such action is deemed necessary in the interest of aviation safety, security, regularity, efficiency oreconomical operation of air transport services in the country or if the Service Provider requests for such revocation;

12. The change of corporate identity, share capital or name of the Service Provider requires prior approval of theMinister in writing;

13. The Service Provider shall not transfer or sublease provision of any of facility or services specified in ScheduleII without written approval by the Minister.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.20153A

SCHEDULE II

FACILITIES AND SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE SERVICE PROVIDER

A. Provision of Ground Handling Facilities or Services

The provision of ground handling facilities or services which includes one or more of the following;

IndexDescription of Facility/Service

1. Good Administration & Supervision

Performing anyone or more of the following.a. Representing the operator.b. Liaison service with local authorities or other entities.c. Provision of office space for its representatives.d. Load control, messaging and telecommunications.e. Handling, storage and administration of Unit Load Devicesf. Supervision of security measures of the operator’s aircraft, freight and office premises as approvedby DGCA.g. Any other supervision before, during or after a flight for and on behalf of an operator.

2. Passenger Handlinga. Any kind of assistance to arriving, departing, transfer or transit passengers including checking ticketsand travel documents, registering baggage and carrying them to the sorting area.

b. Providing lounge facilities to passengers and airport users and any other matter connected to orincidental to passenger handling

3. Baggage Handling

Performing anyone or more of the following.a. Handling baggage in the sorting area.b. Sorting baggage for departures.c. Loading and unloading baggage from the devices designed to move them from the aircraft to thesorting area and vice versa.d. Transporting baggage from the sorting area to the reclaim area and any other matter connected to orincidental to baggage handling.

4. Freight and Mail Handling

Performing any one or more of the following.

Freight

a. Physical handling of export, transfer and import freight.b. Handling of related documents.c. Custom procedures.d. Handling of Dangerous Goods.e. Implementation of security procedures as approved by DGCA or any other matter connected toincidental to Freight handling. Mail

a. Physical handling of incoming or outgoing mail.b. Handling of related documents.c. Implementation of security procedures as approved by DGCA or any other matter connected toincidental to mail handling.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'07PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.20154A

5. Ramp Handling

Performing one or more of the following services.

a. Marshalling the aircraft on the ground at arrival and departure.b. Assistance to aircraft parking and provision of suitable devices.c. Communication between the aircraft and the air-side supplier of servicesd. Loading and unloading of the aircraft.e. Transport of crew and their baggage between the aircraft and terminalf. Provision and operation of appropriate unit for engine starting.g. Towing of aircraft and provision and operation of towing devices.h. The transport, loading to and unloading from the aircraft of food and beverages or any other matterconnected to or incidental to Ramp Handling.

B. The provision of assistance or equipment for dispatch of aircraft on the apron, including aircraft cleaning services;

The provision of assistance or equipment for dispatch of aircraft on the apron including aircraft cleaningservices includes one or more of the following.

1. Aircraft Services

External and internal cleaning of the aircraft and the toilet and water services and any other matterconnected or incidental to aircraft services.

2. Aircraft Maintenance

Performing one or more of the following services.

a. Routine services performed before flight.b. Non-routine service.c. Provision and administration of spare parts and suitable equipment.d. Requests for or reservation of a suitable parking and/or hangar space or any other matter connectedor incidental to aircraft maintenance.

3. Flight Operations and Crew Administration

Performing one or more of the following services.

a.Preparation of the flight at the departure airport or at any other airport .b. In-flight assistance, including re-dispatching if needed.c. Post-flight activities.d. Crew administration or any other matter connected or incidental to flight operations and crewadministration of aircraft Operators.

4. Surface Transport

Performing one or more of the following services which requires operation of surface transport services into, within or out of the airside.

a.Organization and execution of crew, their baggage, freight and mail transport between theterminal and aircraft.b.Any other special (non-routine) transport required on the apron or any other matter connectedor incidental to surface transport of airport users.

07-1023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.