w;s úfYI

wxl 2395$49 - 2024 wf.daia;= ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'08'02No. 2395/49 - friday, August 02, 2024

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

1A- G 42378 - 05 (08/2024) This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Minute of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service

The minute of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service, approved by the Public Service Commission on 06th of June 2024 is mentioned below. On the approval of the Public Service Commission,

W. H. M. M. C. K. Dayarathne, Secretary, Public Service Commission.On 02nd of August 2024.

1. Effective Date: This service minute shall come into effect from 02nd of August 2024

2. Appointing Authority:

2.1 The Grades III, II and I : the Secretary in charge of the subject of Home Affairs to whom the power has been delegated by the Public Service Commission

2.2 Supra Grade : Public Service Commission

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20242A

3. Particulars of the Service Category

3.1 Service Category: Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service

3.2 Grades: Following Grades of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service Grade III Grade II Grade I Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service: Supra Grade

3.3 Tasks Entrusted: Tasks are not assigned based on grades and any of the tasks prescribed for this service category, as mentioned under paragraph 4 shall be assigned to any officer in any Grade, on the service requirement based on the seniority and merit by the Head of the Department

4. Role of Service:

Act as a peace officer to exercise the powers and responsibilities assigned by the Criminal Procedure Code and as an officer to exercise the powers and responsibilities assigned by various rules and regulations to maintain law and order in the Grama Niladhari Division, which is the smallest administration unit in the country and collect the economic, social and cultural information of the people living in the division and identify the development needs of those sectors through analyzing such information in order to fulfill those needs by conducting/monitoring development programs and maintaining welfare activities in the division under the direction and supervision of the Divisional Secretary with the coordinating of the ministries, departments and other institutions are entrusted with the officers belonging to the Grades I, II, III of this service. These officers, while implementing civil administration shall serve under supervision and control of the Divisional Secretary.

The duties entrusted with the Administrative Grama Niladhari shall assist the relevant Divisional Secretary in implementation of the powers and responsibilities assigned by various rules and regulations of the Government, act as the Officer supervising the implementation of the various duties assigned to the Grama Niladhari by the various Ministries, Departments and statutory institutions of the Government, under the direction and supervision of the Divisional Secretary and perform the duties assigned by the Head of the Department as per the service requirements service. These officers, while implementing civil administration, shall serve under the supervision and direction of the Divisional Secretary.

5. Salary:

5.1 Salary Code No.: Grades III,II,and I GN 1 – 2023 Supra Grade GN 2 – 2023

5.2 Salary Scale : Grades III,II,and I Rs. 30,140 – 10X300-11X350-10X560-10X660- 49,190

Supra Grade Rs. 42,335-11X755-18X1030- 69,180

5.3 Initial salary step applicable to the grade system

GN – 1 – 2023

Grade Initial Salary PointInitial Salary Step

IIIRs.30,140.00Step 01

IIRs.33,490.00Step 12

IRs.37,550.00Step 23

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

3A

GN – 2 – 2023

Grade Salary Point Salary Step

Supra GradeRs.42,335Step 01

6. Post/posts belonging to the Service Category:

6.1 Approved designations and approved cadre (As approved by the Director General of the Management Services)

Approved DesignationsGrade to which the post is approvedSalary CodeApproved Cadre

Grama NiladhariGrade I/II/III of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service

GN – 1 – 202314039

Administrative Grama Niladhari

Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service (Supra Grade)

GN – 2 – 2023340

6.2 Combined number of officers – 14,039

For the purpose of grade to grade promotion, all in Grades III, II, I shall be treated as grades belonging to the combined number of officers.

Supra Grade - 340

6.3 Nature of the posts in the service - The post is permanent and pensionable. (shall be subject to the policy decisions to be taken by the government on the pension scheme, in the future.)

7. Method of Recruitment:

7.1 Percentages of Recruitment :

StreamPercentage

Open

Limited

Merit Basis

100%

Not applicable

Not applicable

Note: The vacancies existing up to a date determined by the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs as per the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, shall be filled through an open competitive examination and an Interview for Evaluating Eligibility conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs.

7.2 Open Recruitment:

7.2.1 Grade to which the recruitment is made : Grade III

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20244A

7.2.2 Qualifications : 7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications

(a) Should have passed the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) subjects with credit passes for four subjects, at one sitting including one of the language subjects out of Sinhala or Tamil as the first language and Mathematics.

and

(b) Should have passed all the subjects at the G.C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination at one sitting (Except Common General Paper and English Language Test)

7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications : Not applicable.

7.2.2.3 Experience : Not applicable

7.2.2.4 Physical fitness: All the candidates shall be physically fit and mentally sound to discharge the duties of the post and to serve in any part of the island.

7.2.2.5 Other qualifications:

(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka. (ii) Should not have been ordained in any religious sect. (iii) Permanent Residence Shall be a permanent resident for a continuous period of three (03) years immediately preceding the closing date of application within the Divisional Secretary’s division to which he expected to be appointed to, and it should be confirmed by one of the following certificates:

1. Extracts of the electoral register or 2. A certificate issued by Grama Niladhari to affirm the residency of the candidate

(iv) Candidates will be considered eligible for recruitment to the post only if they have fulfilled all the qualifications mentioned under 7.2.2 to 7.2.3 in every respect as at the closing date mentioned in the Notice for calling applications. 7.2.3 Age :7.2.3.1. Minimum limit: 21 years.

7.2.3.2. Maximum limit: 30 years

7.2.4 Method of Recruitment :

7.2.4.1. Written examination

SubjectsDuration(hours)Maximum marksPass marks

Language Use and Comprehension1 ½10040

General Awareness on Local and Global Trends1 ½10040

Aptitude110040

(Examination procedure and the syllabus of the written examination is shown in Appendix 01.)

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

5A

7.2.4.1.1 Authority conducting the examination : Commissioner General of Examinations

7.2.4.2 Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility :

Evaluating criteria

Main topics to which marks are allocatedMaximum marksMinimum marks considered for selectionLeadership 15

Not applicable

Sports Skills 05Proficiency in the other official language or link language10

Computer literacy10Skills shown at theinterview10

Total 50

Note The Appointing Authority shall take action to approve the detailed marking scheme of the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility, within the maximum marks allocated for the main areas and publish the Notice for calling for applications.

7.2.4.2.1 Appointing Authority of the Panel of the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility : Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs

7.2.4.3 General Interview: The basic qualifications shall also be reviewed by the Panel of the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility.

7.2.5 Method of calling for applications: By calling application through a notification published in all three languages in the Government Gazette

7.2.6 Recruitment :-

7.2.6.1 Of the candidates who are qualified at the written examination, the candidates who have secured the highest marks at each Divisional Secretary’s Division level, twice the number of vacancies in the respective Divisional Secretary’s Division, will be called for the Interview conducted for Evaluating the Eligibility. The said Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility will be conducted by a panel of Interviewers appointed by the Appointing Authority. After examining the qualifications, actions shall be taken to attach the candidates who secure the highest marks from aggregate of the marks obtained in the written examination and the Interview for Evaluating Eligibility, based on the availability of vacancies in each Divisional Secretary’s Division. In the event that it is not possible to fill all the vacancies in a Divisional Secretary's Division, recruitments to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service shall be made subject to fill the remaining vacancies by attaching the candidates according to the order of the merit of the candidates of the district to which the said divisional secretary’s division belongs.

7.2.6.2 Induction Training:

(a) Every officer recruited to the service should successfully complete the three months training course conducted under the supervision of the respective District Secretary. This training should be started from the date of the appointment.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20246A

(b) This will enable every officer to acquire the basic subject knowledge and understanding required in performing the general duties of the service. In order to successfully complete this three-month training course, the candidates should maintain at least 80% participation of the number of days of the course and should have passed the written test conducted at the end of the induction training by scoring 50% marks. The service of this apprentice officer shall be terminated, if the three-month training course is not successfully completed or upon the non-receipt of a satisfactory security clearance report obtained from the National Intelligence Bureau as per the provisions of the Circular No. 31/91 (I) dated 24/09/1991 issued by the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.

7.3 Limited recruitment: Not applicable

7.4 Recruitment on merit basis: Not applicable

8. Efficiency Bar:

8.1

Efficiency BarBefore how many years should the efficiency bar examination be completed?

Nature of the Efficiency Bar, Writ-ten Test/Professional/Certificate Course/Other1st Efficiency BarPrior to elapsing 3 years after recruitment to the Grade III

Written Test – Appendix 02

2ndEfficiency BarPrior to elapsing 3 years after promotion to

Grade II

Written Test- Appendix 03

3rd Efficiency BarPrior to elapsing 5 years after promotion to

Grade I

Written Test- Appendix 04

Syllabus - For the 1st Efficiency Bar –Appendix 02 For the 2nd Efficiency Bar- Appendix 03 For the 3rd Efficiency Bar - Appendix 04

8.2 The efficiency bar examination will be conducted once (01) in every year.

8.3 Conducting Authority : By an institution approved by the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs.

9. Language proficiency:

9.1

LanguageProficiency level to be achievedOfficial Language The officers who were recruited in a language medium other than an official language shall complete the prescribed language proficiency during the period of probation.Other official language The relevant proficiency level shall be achieved as per the provisions stipulated in Public Administration Circular 18/2020 and the circulars incidental thereto.

10. Grade Promotions

10.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II

10.1.1 In terms of the general performance

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

7A

10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:

(i) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.

(ii) Should have completed a minimum of ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service in grade III of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service and earned ten (10) salary increments.

(iii) Should have shown a satisfactory or higher performance within the ten (10) consecutive years prior to the date of promotion as per the approved performance evaluation procedure.

(iv) Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.

(v) Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination as at the prescribed date.

(vi) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the relevant level.

10.1.1.2 Method of Promotion

When the officers who fulfill the prescribed qualifications make a request for promotion to Grade

II to the Appointing Authority as per prescribed form along with the recommendations of the Divisional Secretary and District Secretary, the Appointing Authority, after verification of the qualifications, shall promote the officers with effect from the date on which the qualifications are fulfilled..10.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I

10.2.1 In terms of the general performance

10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should have completed a minimum of ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service in grade II of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service and earned ten (10) salary increments.

(ii) Should have shown a satisfactory or higher performance within the ten (10) consecutive years prior to the date of promotion as per the approved performance evaluation procedure.

(iii) Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment (Should have gained eligibility as per interpretation and definition 12.(v). disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.

(iv) Should have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination on the prescribed date. 10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion When officers who have fulfilled the qualifications make a request for promotion to Grade I as per the prescribed form along with the recommendation of the Divisional Secretary and the District Secretary, the Appointing Authority, after verification of the qualifications, shall make the promotion with effect from the date on which the qualifications are fulfilled.

Note: - The date of promotion of those officers who do not pass the efficiency bar examination by the prescribed date on average level performance shall be delayed by a period equivalent to the delayed period in passing the efficiency bar.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.20248A

10.3 Promotion to Supra Grade

10.3.1 Promotion on Limited Competitive Examination

10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(A) (i) Should be an officer of Grade I of the service

or,

(ii) Should be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of not less than eight (08) years in Grade II of the Service or, (iii) Should be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of not less than five (05) years in Grade II with a degree awarded by a university recognized by the University Grants Commission

(B) Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.

10.3.1.2 Method of promotion Appointments to not less than 40% of Supra Grade vacancies shall be made based on the results of a limited competitive examination. Appointments to not more than 40%of the vacancies in the Supra Grades shall be made based on the results of a limited competitive examination. Eligible candidates will be appointed after scrutinization of qualifications by an interview panel appointed by the Public Service Commission. The interview will be conducted only for examining the certificates proving the eligibility of the applicants and no marks will be awarded.

A number of candidates equivalent to the aggregate of the number of vacancies for which the recruitments are made through the limited competitive examination and the amount equal to 25% of the number of vacancies as per a priority list prepared according to the merit shown in the written test from among the candidates who have scored the pass mark or more in the written test will be called for the interview. The syllabus and the marking scheme is as per Appendix 05.

10.3.1.3 Method of Application

As published in the gazette notification.

10.3.2 Promotion on Merit Basis

10.3.2.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled

(i) Should be an officer who has completed an active and satisfactory service period of minimum five (05) years in Grade I as at the prescribed date.

(ii) Should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Commission Circular No. 01/2020 and circulars incidental thereto.

10.3.2.2 Method of promotion

60% of Supra Grade vacancies will be filled by promotion on merit. For this purpose, priority will be determined based on the results of an aptitude test conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations on behalf of the Public Service Commission and the order of the aggregate of the

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

9A

marks given based on the period of service and merit by a panel appointed by the Public Service Commission. Candidates shall appear for an Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility held by a panel appointed by the Public Service Commission for the verification of qualifications. No marks shall be awarded at that interview. (Appendix 06, 07)

Note:

1. The Secretary to the Ministry, at the time of calling applications for recruitment, shall make arrangements to get the approval of the Public Service Commission for a detailed marking scheme for the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility.

2. The number of candidates equivalent to twice the number of existing vacancies shall be eligible to be called for the interview through a priority list prepared based on the number of marks secured in the written test. Recruitments to the posts shall be made based on the order of aggregate of the marks secured at the written competitive examination and the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility where the marks will be awarded based on seniority and merit, as well as the number of existing vacancies.

10.3.3 Appointing authority of the panel of the Interview for Evaluating the Eligibility: Public Service Commission

11. Appointment to posts: Not applicable.

12. Conditions applicable to the service: In terms of the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission.

13. Conditions outside the general conditions indicated in Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission.

The provisions of the circulars issued for the purpose of implementing this service minute shall be made applicable in respect of the service period and the efficiency bar.

13.1 Officers recruited at the Divisional Secretary's Division level are not entitled to transfer from the Divisional Secretary's Division to which the officer is appointed to another Divisional Secretary's Division until completion of 03 years from the date of the first appointment. However, the Secretary of the Ministry may decide, where appropriate, on granting transfers to the officers newly recruited at the Divisional Secretariat Division level upon the request of the officer or on exigency of service, before the expiry of 03 years from the date of the first appointment.

14. Since Grama Niladharies perform duties related to civil administration and act as a Peace Officer, they are not entitled to political rights.

15. Definitions and Interpretations

15.1 The term “Service Minute” shall mean the Minute on the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service.

15.2 “The Secretary” shall mean the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs.

15.3 “The Service” shall mean the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service.

15.4 “The Commission” shall mean the Public Service Commission.

15.5 “The “Gazette” shall mean the Gazette published by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

16. Absorption in to the Grade System

This service minute shall only be applicable to the officers in service as at its effective date. The Grama Niladharies who are paid under the salary scale MN-02 given by the Public Administration Circular 06/2006 and the circulars incident thereto, shall be absorbed into this service minute as mentioned below subject to the provisions stipulated in Section Four (04), Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.202410A

There shall be no change in the date of the salary increment of the person concerned due to the absorption, and the said date shall remain unchanged as the date of the salary increment that prevailed before absorption. Similarly, based on the fact that the last drawn salary step of the person concerned corresponds with the new salary step, the person concerned should not be placed in the next higher salary step in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.

The service period of each grade, in accordance with the previous recruitment procedure, shall be treated as a service period of the relevant grade after absorption into the new service minute.

(i) Grade III(a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Grade III appointments as at the effective date of the Service Minute,

(ii) Grade II(a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Grade II appointments as at the effective date of the Service Minute.

(b) The officers who have not fulfilled the other service requirements to be promoted to Grade I as mentioned above, though they have completed the service period of ten (10) years related to Grama Niladhari Grade II.

(iii) Grade I (a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Grade I appointments as at the effective date of the Service Minute.

(iv) Supra Grade (a) The Officers holding Grama Niladhari Supra Grade appointments as at the effective date of the Service Minute.

17. Any matter not provided for in this Service Minute shall be determined by the Public Service Commission.

Appendix 01

01. Name of the Examination: Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service

02. Particulars of the examination:

Subjects Duration (Hours)Maximum marks Pass Marks Language Use and Comprehension1 ½10040%

General Knowledge on Local and Global Trends1 ½10040%

Aptitude110040%

03. Authority conducting the examination: The Commissioner General of Examinations

04. How often is the examination held: Examination will be conducted according to the existence of vacancies

05. Syllabus of the examination:

Name of the question paperSyllabus

Language Use and Comprehension

The question paper will consist of subject-related questions to test the candidate’s ability to express ideas, comprehension, spellings, language and essay, making a draft from a given letter, making graphs and tables based on the given data, summarizing given texts, expressing the idea of several sentences in a single sentence and knowledge on using simple grammar.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

11A

Name of the question paperSyllabus

General Knowledge on Local and Global Trends

This question paper shall consist of subject-related questions so designed that they will test the candidates’ general knowledge on historically, geographically, socially, and economically important information about the county and both local and foreign current affairs.

Aptitude

This paper shall consist of subject-related questions designed to test the candidates’ numerical skills, power of critical reasoning, problem solving, general intelligence, etc.

Appendix 02

01. Name of the examination: The first efficiency bar examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service

02. Particulars of the examination:

Question PaperDuration (Hours)Total MarksPass Marks1. Office Systems & Accounting0210040%2. Case Study and Professional Knowledge0210040%3. Computer Test Written Test1 ½10040%

03. Authority conducting the examination: By an institution approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.

04. How often is the examination held: Once a year

05. Syllabus of the examination:

Name of the question paper Syllabus

(1)i. Office Systems

ii.Accounting Systems

This paper is designed to assess the knowledge and ability of the candidate to apply practically the basic knowledge on office systems applied in Grama Niladhari Office and government offices and to express his ideas/ observations precisely by brief and clear notes understanding the official documents and prepare a report on subject related matters.

This paper is designed to assess the knowledge and understanding of the candidate on basic accounts and accounting systems, functions on cash books and the government procurement procedures applied in government offices and related to the duties entrusted to the Grama Niladhari.

2. Case Study and Professional Knowledge

This paper is designed to test the knowledge of the Grama Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him by various rules and regulations, ministries, departments, provincial councils and other statutory institutions of the government.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.202412A

Name of the question paper Syllabus

3. Computer TestMain objective of this test is to assess the ability of the candidates in following fieldsBasic concepts of Information Technology Windows Operating SystemFolder Management

Word Processing Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing textsaligning texts, fonts and attributes, indenting paragraphs, change of line spacing, tab setting, finding and replacing textspelling and grammar mistakes, thesaurus,working with columns, page setupprinting documents, creating tables, sorting texts,File Management Mail merging Working with Macros

Spread Sheets

Basic skills FormattingEditingcolumns and ranges, insertion and deletionData sorting Creating chartsPrinting (@ Function)Working with MacrosFile Management

Internet

Introduction to internet, World Wide Web, How to navigate, Practical Internet

EmailIntroduction, Basic skills, Receiving mail Sending mail, Responding to mails working with attachments, creating and using nicknamesComposing massages

6. Exemption from Computer Test

The officers who have obtained a Computer Driving License awarded by the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority and those who have obtained certificates of which the recognition is equivalent to or higher to the Computer Driving License with theory and practical knowledge relating to computer technology issued by the institutions recognized by the Tertiary and Vocational Education Commission, and also the officers who have obtained a Computer Science Information Technology Degree or have studied Computer Science/Information Technology as a main subject for the Degree, awarded by a university recognized by the University Grants Commission, shall be exempted from the requirement of passing this computer test.

A list of courses which are recognized for this purpose and the institutes conducting the courses will be published in the Gazette Notification issued for inviting applications for the efficiency bar examination

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

13A

Appendix 03

01. Name of the examination: The second efficiency bar examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhai Service

02. Particulars of the examination:

03.

Question PaperDuration (Hours)Total MarksPass Marks

1. Office System, Establishments Code and Procedural Rules1 ½10040%

2. Case Study and Professional Knowledge1 ½10040%

04. Authority conducting the examination: By an institution approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government.

05. How often is the examination held: Once a year

06. Syllabus of the examination:

Name of the Question Paper Syllabus

(1)

i. Office Systems

ii. Establishments Code and the Procedural Rules

It is expected to assess the knowledge of the officer on office systems applied at government offices and Grama Niladhari offices and their ability to apply them practically.

It is expected to test the knowledge and understanding of the officer on procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, provisions of Chap-ters VII, IX, XI, XII, XIV, XV,XVI,XVII, XXI, XXII, XXIII, XXIV, XXV, XXVI, XXVII,XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII and public administration circulars and circulars of the Public Service Com-mission which are currently applied.

(2) Case Studies and Professional Knowledge The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted to Grama Niladharies by various rules & regulations and ministries, departments, and other statutory institutions of the government shall be tested.

Appendix 04

01. Name of the examination: The third efficiency bar examination for the officers of the Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service

02. Particulars of the examination:

Question PaperDuration(Hours)Total MarksPass Marks

1. Office Systems, General Conduct and Discipline 1 ½10040%

2. Case Studies and Professional Knowledge 1 ½10040%

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.202414A

03. Authority conducting the examination: By an institution approved by the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs.

04. How often is the examination held: Once a year

05. Syllabus of the examination:

Name of the Question PaperSyllabus

(1)

i. Office System

ii. General Conduct and Discipline of the Public Service

It is expected to assess the knowledge of the officer on office systems applied at government offices and Grama Niladhari offices and their ability to apply them practically

It is expected to assess the knowledge and understanding of the officers on devolution of disciplinary powers, termination of service, rules applied in the retirement as per the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, provisions in relation to the general conduct and disciplinary procedure in Chapters XLVII and XLVIII of volume II of the Establishments Code and current circulars issued in relation to the above.

2. Case Studies and Professional Knowledge

The knowledge of the officers on duties entrusted to Grama Niladharies by various rules & regulations and Ministries, departments, provincial councils and other statutory institutions of the government shall be tested and further a case study will be given to the candidate on matters relevant to the subjects.

Appendix 05

01. Name of the examination: Written examination for promotion to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service on Limited Basis

02. Particulars about the examination :

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksPass Marks

1.Office Managment 1 ½ hours10040 %

2.Office System1 ½ hours10040 %

3.Establishment Procedures 1 ½ hours10040 %

4.Public Finance Management 1 ½ hours10040 %

5. General Paper1 ½ hours10040 %

03. Authority conducting the examination :

The Commissioner General of Examinations or an institution approved by the Public Service Commission

04. How often is the examination held : The examination shall be conducted depending on the existence of vacancies.

05. Syllabus of the examination:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2024

15A

Name of the question paper Syllabus

1. Office Management

2 . Office System

Organization structure, Principles of organization, task analysis and task evaluation, leadership, supervision and decision making, communication, public relations, coordination and problem-solvingPrinciples of office systems, office procedures, documents and filing, planning and handling of forms, office correspondents, control over the use of office equipment, office layout and environment, job description, work and systems study, measurement of works, and preparation of work steps.

3.Establishment ProceduresGeneral understanding of the procedures to be followed when making recruitments to public service, establishment activities of public officers, delegation of powers in relation to appointments, transfers, promotions and termination of service of public officers, the regulations, procedures and circulars issued by the Government and the Public Service Commission on the discipline, welfare of public servants, privileges entitled to public officers, the establishment matters will be examined.4.Public Finance ManagementAnnual estimates and responsibilities of an accounting officer, general understanding on financial control, delegation of responsibilities on financial matters, accepting money, accounting, acceptance, payments, custody of public money, imprest and bank account, supplies and services, government procurement procedures, board of surveys, audit queries, ledgers used in government offices, summaries of income and expenditure, bank reconciliations, books on financial management, regulations and circulars issued on utilization of Public Finance issued so far by the government will be tested.

5. General Paper The nature of public administration, structure of public administration, public policies and new public reforms, Fundamental Rights, Human rights, Human Rights Commission, Ombudsman, Public Petition Committee of the Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, creation of a proper physical office environment, welfare of the staff, recognition of sociological acceptance of civil and official status and the duties of public officers towards service recipients. Appendix 06

01. Name of the examination: Written examination for promotion to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari Service on Merit Basis

02. Particulars of the examination:

Question PaperDurationTotal MarksMinimum marks

1. Aptitude, Case Study1 ½ hours10040 %

03. Authority conducting the examination :The Commissioner General of Examinations or an institution approved by the Public Service Commission.

04. How often is the examination held: The examination will be conducted depending on the existence of vacancies.

05. Syllabus for the examination:

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'02Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.202416A

Name of the question paper Syllabus

Aptitude, Case StudyAptitude, Case Studies question paper shall consist of two parts.

Part I General knowledge, decision-making ability, critical reasoning, and knowledge on office administration required in performing duties relating to office admin-istration and duties assigned to Grama Niladharies will be tested.

Part IICandidates will be required to answer questions related to case studies on office administration and duties assigned to Grama Niladharies. The question paper will be prepared in one or several paragraphs.

Appendix 07

01. Name of the examination: Interview to assess eligibility in promoting to Supra Grade of Sri Lanka Grama Niladhari

Service on merit basis

02. Areas for which the marks are allocated at the interview and the marks allocated

Headings for which the marks are allocatedThe maximum marksThe minimum marks considered for selectionService Period 50

Not applocable.

Merit

(The marking scheme, which contains the relevant criteria, will be approved by the Public Service Commission where necessary.)

45

The merit proven at the interview. 05

03. Authority conducting the interview:An interview board approved by the Public Service Commission.

EOG 08 - 0017

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.