==== BLOCKS ==== 

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

w;s úfYI

wxl 1907$47 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'03'26

No. 1907/47 - THURSDAY, MARCH 26, 2015

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A

L. D. B. 1/2012(II)

FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES ACT, No. 2 OF 1996

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Fisheries under Section 61(1)(sg), (sh) and (t) of the Fisheries and Aquatic ResourcesAct, No. 2 of 1996.

MAHINDA AMARAWEERA

Minister of Fisheries.Colombo,25th March, 2015.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as Implementation of Satellite based Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) for FishingBoats Operating in High Seas Regulations 2015.

2. No person shall deploy fishing boats, supply or cargo vessels, reefers and carrier vessels (hereinafter referred toas the “Vessels”) having an overall length of 10.3m (34 feet) or more for high seas fishing operations unless such vessel isfitted with Satellite based Vessel Monitoring System Device (hereinafter referred to as a “Monitoring Device”) on boardapproved by Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (hereinafter referred to· as “the Department”) which allowstracking and identification of such vessels by the land based Fisheries Monitoring Centre (hereinafter referred to as “FMC”,particulars of which is specified in the Schedule I hereto) of the Department.

3. The master, skipper, owner or licensee of the fishing vessel shall take steps to ensure that the Monitoring Deviceon board is activated at all times irrespective of their geographical location allowing four hourly automatic transmission ofrequired information or any time intervals decided by Director General as he may deem fit to the FMC. Such data shallinclude;-

2AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

(i) the identification of the fishing vessel ;

(a) registration number of the vessel;

(b) international call sign;

(c) name of the Vessel;

(d) International Maritime Organization No. (If available)

(e) Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (lOTC) No.

(ii) the current geographical location of the fishing boat (longitude, latitude) with a position error of less than 500

meters, at a constant interval of 99%;

(iii) the date and time (expressed in Universal Time Coordinated) for the fixing of the position referred to in paragraph

(ii) .of the fishing boat;

(iv) the speed and course of the fishing vessel.

4. (1) The “FMC” established under the Department shall be responsible for twenty four hour monitoring of anyfishing vessel in high seas irrespective of their geographical position. The land based FMC shall receive the requiredinformation once in every four hours or any time intervals decided by Director General as he deems fit through a well-establishedcomputer system, coordinated by the service providers for automatic data processing and electronic data transmission.

(2) FMC shall keep and maintain backup and recovery procedures of the information received in order to support inthe event of system failure.

5. The Department may provide information on Sri Lanka flagged fishing vessels to the regional fisheries managementorganization of which Sri Lanka is a member.

6. The FMC shall submit the data and information required to the Management Division of the Department at it’srequest for the purpose of verification of logbook data and detection of any Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishingactivity.

7. The FMC shall take steps to ensure that the data received from any vessel is recorded and preserved either in softor hard copies for a period of not more than two years or for a period as may be determined by the Director General.

8. The FMC through coordination with the service providers shall :-

(i) take steps to ensure the Monitoring Devices on board of every vessel functions properly and not tampered

with;

(ii) monitor the fishing vessels at all times which engages in fishing at high seas or fishing related activities, and

(iii) take steps to ensure accuracy of the data ;

9. When any Monitoring Device on board becomes defective or mal functioning the master, skipper, owner, licenseeor representative authorized by the master, skipper or owner shall inform such failure to the FMC of the Department withimmediate effect and , shall communicate and provide required data and information to the Department once in every fourhours or any time intervals decided by Director General as he deems fit by any communication facility available such as;e-mail, fax, telephone or SSB radio etc.

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

10. In the event of detection of such technical failure or mal-functioning of the Monitoring Device fixed on board,the device shall be repaired or replaced within a maximum period of one month. A fishing vessel shall not leave a portfollowing a technical failure unless the defective Monitoring Device is repaired and in good working order to the satisfactionof the FMC of Department.

11. No Monitoring Device shall be deactivated while in port until written authorization is given by the FMC of theDepartment. A written confirmation from the port authorities in respect of the time of arrival at port and a letter of confirmationfrom the owner indicating the estimated stay in the port shall also be produced to the Department. The first position reportgenerated after repowering shall not be different in relation to the position of the vessel in the last report.

12. Master or Skipper of a vessel shall take steps to ensure that the Monitoring Device on board is active at all timesand no person shall destroy, damage, render it inoperative or otherwise interfere with the Monitoring Device installed onboard and such activity is strictly prohibited. In particular,

(a) alter the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) data in any manner;

(b) obstruct the antenna or the antennas connected to the Monitoring Device manually;

(c) interrupt the power supply to the Monitoring Device manually; and

(d) remove the Monitoring Device from the fishing vessel or change the installed position in the vessel without

prior approval from the FMC of the Department.

13. Where FMC of the Department fails to receive data transmission within four hours time intervals or any differenttime interval decided by Director General as he deems fit it shall notify master or the owner, licensee of such vessel or anyrepresentative authorized in that behalf by such master with immediate effect .If such occurrence takes place in relation to aparticular vessel, more than three times a year FMC of the Department shall conduct an investigation including an officialcheck on the device in question, in order to establish whether the equipment has been tampered with .

14. The skipper or master of a vessel shall take steps to ensure through the Monitoring Device and its FMC monitorsthe date and time of the entry into and the exit from :-

(a) any maritime areas where specific rules on access to waters and resources apply;

(b) the regulatory areas of the Regional Fisheries Maritime Organization;

(c) jurisdictional waters of any other state;

(d) any other area, restricted or otherwise, which may be designated by Department.

15. Any Vessel which operates in close proximity up to twenty miles of any marine protected area or areas otherwiserestricted for fishing shall be required to report at hourly intervals or any time intervals decided by Director General as hedeems fit when they remain in that proximity.

16. The FMC shall take steps to ensure compliance by the vessel with the in- transit operation of the vessel. Anyvessel that transits shall communicate the date and time of entering and leaving the areas of the Exclusive Economic Zone toFMC of the Department and the authorities of the relevant country to which the transit passage belongs to.

17. Access to the vessel monitoring data base shall be restricted to the officers authorized by Director General inwriting in that behalf. Each staff member having access to the records of vessel monitoring data base shall be required to signthe declaration of restriction on the use and disclosure of the position of the vessel as specified in Schedule II of thisregulation.

4AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

18. The officer in charge of the FMC shall be responsible for the monitoring of the Vessels and shall keep such dataunder lock and key and the ownership of the information and data of the vessel monitoring shall be vested with theDepartment and no such data shall be released except under the written permission of the Director General.

19. Satellite devices or any equipment for the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) shall only be obtained from theauthorized service provider approved by the Department in writing

20. These regulations shall apply to any fishing vessel having the overall length of 10.3m (34 feet) or more.

21. In these regulations unless tha context otherwise requires.

“Director General” means the Director General of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources appointed under section 2 of

Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No 2 of 1996;

“High seas fishing operations” means fishing activities conducted beyond the Exclusive Economic Zone (200

nautical miles) and beyond the waters of the national jurisdiction of any other state;

“fishing related activities” means any operation in support of, or in preparation for, fishing, including the

landing, packaging, processing, transshipping or transporting of fish that have not been previously landedat a port, as well as the provisioning of personnel, fuel, gear and other supplies at sea;

“Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing” refers to the activities set out in paragraph 1 of the Resolution

11/03 adopted by the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission referred to in section 14G of the Fisheries andAquatic Resources Act, No.2 of 1996;

“port” includes offshore terminals and other installations for landing, transshipping, packaging, processing,

refueling or resupplying;

“vessel” means any vessel, ship or boat used for, equipped to be used for or intended to be used for, fishing or

fishing related activities.

(Regulation 2)SCHEDULE I

Information of the Fisheries Monitoring Centre of Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources ( DF AR) Sri Lanka

NameAddressTel No.Telex NoFax No.Email :

(Regulation 17)

SCHEDULE II

Format of the declaration of the restriction on the use and disclosure of the vessel position information.

Declaration

I the undersigned ...........................................................................................hereby undertake to treat whatever information ismade available to me from the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) data base in a confidential manner and desist from divulgingin to any it to any person other than any person authorized in writing by the Director General

Name of the officer-Designation-NIC no -

04-396/1

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

L D. B 1/2012(II)

FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES ACT No. 2 OF 1996

REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Fisheries under Section 61(1)(I) and (t) of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act,No.2 of 1996

Mahinda Amaraweera,

Minister of Fisheries.

Colombo,25th March 2015.

Regulations

1. These regulations may be cited as Implementation of Port State Measures to. Prevent, Deter and Eliminate IllegalUnreported and Unregulated Fishing Regulations 2015.

2. (1) No person shall except under authority of a license issued by the Director General of the Department ofFisheries and Aquatic Resources, (hereinafter referred to as the “Director General”) land, transship, pack or process fishtaken outside Sri Lanka waters by a foreign fishing boat, or obtain services such as resupplying, maintenance and drydocking for such boat at any port of Sri Lanka, authorized by the Director General.

(2) Director General shall take steps to prevent such activities specified in paragraph (1) of the regulation beingcarried out in any port in Sri Lanka except in a port designated and declared in the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission or any portof Sri Lanka authorized by the Director General.

3. Every application for a license specified in regulation 2 shall be made substantially in the form specified inschedule I hereto and shall be accompanied by certified copies of boat registration issued by the Flag country, certificate ofauthorization to fish in high seas issued by the Flag country or any coastal state, the advance declaration in schedule IIhereto and any other document requested by the Director General with a fee of ten thousand rupees.

4. An application referred to in regulation 3 shall be made at least forty eight hours in advance prior to the enteringof the boat in to the designated port for the first time and twenty four hours in· advance prior to the re-entering of such boatto the designated port or immediately after the end of fishing operation. if the time distance to the port is less than twenty fourhours. .

5. (1) The license shall be substantially in the form specified in Part I, II and III of Schedule III for landing, transshipmentand for maintenance, dry docking and port of services respectively.

(2). Every license referred to in regulation 5(1) shall be valid for a time period specified therein and shall be subjectto the conditions imposed by Director General in conformity with the relevant resolutions adopted by the Indian Ocean TunaCommission and the Port State Measures Agreement.

6. Every license holder shall comply with the provisions of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act, No. 20 of 1948 and theCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235) when acting under the license in addition to the terms and conditions imposed by thisregulation and the license issued thereunder.

7. When the Director General has sufficient evidence to believe that the boat seeking entry into the designated porthas been engaged in Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing (hereinafter referred to as IUU fishing) related activities orin support of such fishing, in particular the boat on a list of vessels having been engaged in IUU fishing or such fishingrelated activities adopted by a Regional Fisheries Management Organization, he shall deny entry to the designated port and

6AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

such decision shall be communicated to the Flag country of the boat, coastal country of which, the fishing is authorized,State of which the master of the boat is a national and the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission.

8. Every foreign boat permitted entry to the port, shall be inspected by the qualified inspectors authorized in writingin that behalf for that purpose in accordance with the procedure in schedule IV hereto and submit the report of portinspection in the format specified in schedule V hereto to the Director General. The Director General shall transmit the portinspection report to the Flag country and the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission in conformity with the relevant resolutionsadopted.

9. The master, skipper or the captain of any boat subject to inspection shall cooperate with the inspector in carryingout the inspection procedure.

10. The inspector shall avoid any undue delay when carrying out any inspection in order to ensure minimuminterference and inconvenience in respect of a passage of such vessel and degradation of the quality of the fish.

11. The communication system of the boat shall be linked to the radio frequencies of the Monitoring ControlSurveillance unit of Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources of Sri Lanka and each boat shall carry “a transponderwhich is linked to the central monitoring system of the flag state.

12. The master, skipper or the captain of boat shall submit a copy of the log book maintained in terms of fish catchdata collection and data of tuna catch and similar species with the geographic location of which the catch has taken place andthe transshipment declaration if a transshipment has taken place at sea, in accordance with the format set out in Schedule VIhereto to the Director General.

13. Ten percent (10%) of the total weight of tuna and similar fish landed by a foreign fishing boat under the authorityof a license issued in accordance with regulation 2 shall be made available to the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation to bepurchased at a price to be agreed by such Corporation. The aforesaid ten percent of the total weight of tuna fish shall consistof five percent (5%) of fresh tuna and five percent (5%) of frozen tuna.

14. This regulation shall not affect the entry of any boat to port in accordance with international law of reasons offorce majeure or distress. Accordingly a vessel shall not be denied of the use of port services essential to the safety or healthof the crew or the safety of the boat, provided these needs are duly proven or if there is a risk of imminent danger to the vessel.

15. In these regulations -

“ Fishing related activities” means any operation in support of, or in preparation for, fishing including the

landing, packaging, processing, transshipping or transporting of fish that have not been previously landedat a port, as well as the provisioning of personnel, fuel gear and other supplies at sea;

“Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing” refers to the activities set out in paragraph I of the Resolution

11/03 adopted by Indian Ocean Tuna Commission referred to in section 14G of the Fisheries and AquaticResources Act, No.2 of 1996 ;

“Designated port” includes offshore terminals and other installations for landing, transshipping, packaging,

processing, refueling or resupplying of boat and reported to the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission to bedeclared by the port state;

“Boat” means any vessel, ship or boat used for, equipped to be used for, or intended to be used for, fishing or

fishing related activities.

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE I

An application for fish landing / transshipment / maintenance and port services by foreign fishing boat in

designated and declared port of Sri Lanka.

1. Information of the local Agent/Company applying for the license

a. Full name:b. Address:c. Telephone No:d. Fax No:e. E-mailf. Board ofInvestments(BOI) Registration No:

1. Information of the Foreign Agent/Company owns the fishing vessel

a. Full name:b. Address:c. Telephone No:d. Fax No:e. E-mailf. Board ofInvestments(BOI) Registration No:

3. Purpose of port call :

a) Fish Landingb) Transshipmentc) Maintenance and port services

4. Information of the Foreign fishing boart

a) Name of the boatb) Boat Nationalityc) Boat Registration Nod) Valid period of boat registratione) Indian Ocean Tuna Commision(IOTC)f) Valid period of IOTC authorizationauthorized Nog) State of fishing authorizationh) Valid period of fishing authorizationi) Radio call Signj) International Maritime Organization (IMO)Nok) Home port of the boatI) Last port call

Description of the boat

a) Length overallb) Draughtc) Breathd) Hull materiale) Gross tonnagef) Net Tonageg) Fishing gearh) Cooling Systemi) Deck equipmentj) Vessel MonitoringSystem (VMS)

8AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

6. Details of the crew on board

NameNationalityEmployment

7. Detail to obtain license for transshipment

a) Date of transshipmentb) Geographic location of the catches

c) Receiving boat (carrier boat) information,

a) Name of the receiving boatb) Boat Nationalityc) Boat Registration Nod) Valid period of boat registratione) IOTC authorization Nof) Valid period of IOTC authorizationg) Radio Call Signh) IMO No.i) Home port of the boatj) Last port call

d) Details of the species of fish/type of product to be transshipped

Species of fishType of productQuantity (tons)( whole,gutted,headed,filleted)

Yellow fin tunaBigeye tunaSkip jack tunaMarlin

8. Details to obtain license for maintenance and port services

a) Required Service :

i)Refueling -ii)Resupplying - water /lce/Bait/Food / ........./......../ ........iii)Maintenance required: Engine/Propellers/Dry docking

I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct.......................

Signature

Date :

Total

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

(Regulation 3)

SCHEDULE II

Information to be provided in advance by boat requesting port entry

1. Intended port of call2. Port State3. Estimated date and time of arrival4. Purpose(s)”5. Port and date of last port call6. Name of the boat7. Flag State8. Type of boat9. International Radio Call Sign10. boat contact information11. boat owners( s)12. Certificate of registration No13. IMO ship registration No, ifavailable14. Any other registration No,if available15. IOTC No16. VMSNOYes: National Yes: RFMO(s) Type17. Boat Length Beam Draftdimensions18. Boat master’ name and nationality19. Relevant fishing authority/Department

IdentifierIssued byValidityFishingSpeciesGeararea(s)

20. Relevant transshipment authorityIdentifierIssued byValidityIdentifierIssued byValidity21. Transhipment information concerningdoner boats

DateLocationNameFlagIDSpeciesProductCatchQuantityStatearea

22. Total catch onboard

23.Catch to be landedspeciesProduct formCatch areaQuantity

10AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

(Regulation 5)

SCHEDULE III

PART I

License for fish landing by foreign fishing boat in designated and declared port in Sri Lanka.

1..................................... (Applicant) of..................................(address) is hereby authorized to land fish taken out sidethe Sri Lankan waters by the................................ (country) fishing boat ..............................“(name)” bearing registrationnumber.................................and the High seas Fishing operation license no.issued...................................by.............................................(the fishing authority of flag country..................................Icoastal state) at the harbourof Sri Lanka.

2.This license shall be used by the person named hereto and shall not be transferable to any other person.

3.This licence shall, unless earlier cancelled be valid for a period of .................. commencing from 20 . ./ .. ./ .. land fishcaught in a single fishing trip.

4.Any fish taken out side the Sri Lanka waters and landed under the authority of this license shall not be transshippedusing any local or foreign fishing boat at the port except under a license issued for such purpose under regulation2 of Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal Unreported and Unregulated Regulations 2015.

5.This license shall be subjected to the provisions of Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate IllegalUnreported and Unregulated Regulations 2015 and the conditions given below.

FISH LANDING CONDITIONS

1.This license is subject to the immigrants and emigrants Act No 20 of 1948 and Customs Ordinance.

2The fish catch should be caught out side the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of Sri Lanka and the fishing gearsof the boat should be kept stowed during the arrival to the designated port and fishing within the ExclusiveEconomic Zone (EEZ)of Sri Lanka is completely prohibited.

3Port inspectors appointed by the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, Harbour .Managers of CeylonFisheries Harbour Corporation (CFHC) , Coast Guards and the Navy Officials are authorized to inspect the fishingboat.

4Radio communication system of the boat should be linked to the radio frequencies of the Monitoring, Control,Servillance (MCS ) unit of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and each boat shall carry atransponder which is linked to the central monitoring system of the flag country.

5The total catch landed using this license should be reported in accordance with species of fish to the DirectorGeneral/Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and the Harbour Manager at the end of the landing.

6The licence holder should strictly adhere to the Security requirements imposed by the Ministry of Defence.

7Any pollutant should not be discharged to the marine environment of harbour basin.

8Departed port of the boat should be a recognized port of the flag country or a coastal State.

9Land, sell or exhibit for sale of whole carcass or any part of a marine mammal, sea turtle, thresher shark species,white tip shark and only the fins which have been removed from the body of other sharks is completely prohibited.

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

l0In addition to the berthing charges and the other charges levied by the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation (CFC) Tenpercent (10%) of the total weight of a tuna fish landed by a foreign fishing boat under regulation 13 shall be madeavailable to the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation of a price agreed by such corporation with the company. Theaforesaid ten percent of the total weight of tuna fish shall consist of five (5%) of fresh tuna and five percent (5%)frozen tuna.

11These conditions shall not apply to fish in containers landed at the commercial port by a foreign fishing boataccompanied with a bill of lading at the time of landing

PART II

License to transship fish landed by foreign fishing boat in designated and declared port -in Sri Lanka.

1...........................................(Name of Applicant) of .................................................(Address) is hereby authorized totransship the tuna and tuna like fish species in given quantities in the table (l) below, which is landed in the..........................................................harbour of Sri Lanka under the authority of the license No........................ (licenseno) issued by the Director General to the carrier boat of ........................................ (country).....................................(boatname) and beaing registration No ..................................

2.This license shall be used by the person named hereto and shall not be transferable to any other persons.

3.This licence shall, unless earlier cancelled be valid for a period...........................................................commencingfrom 20....../ .........to...................4.Fish Landing by a foreign fishing boat accompanied by a bills of lading at the time of landing at the commercialport and exported in containers shall not be treated as transshipment.

5.This license shall be subjected to the provisions of Port State Measures to prevent, deter and Eliminate IllegalUnreported and Unregulated fishing Regulations 2015 and the conditions given below.

6.Table I - Detail of Tuna and Tuna like species as permitted to tranship

Species of fishForm ofQuantity (Kg/ton)Date of transshipment transshipment

Yellow Tuna

Bigeye tuna

Marlin

Sword fish

Sharks

Others

Director General/Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources

Date

12AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

Part III

License for maintenance and to obtain port services by foreign fishing boat in designated and declared port in Sri Lanka.

1.The.......................................( country) Fishing vessel named ........................................ and bearing registrationnumber.......................................is authorized to enter the...............................................harbour on the date.................................... for maintenance, dry docking ,or to obtain port services only.

2.This license shall be used by the person named hereto and shall not be transferable to any other person.

3.This license is valid only for the purpose specified herein and landing of any fish in the harbour using this licenceis totally prohibited.

4.This licence shall, unless earlier cancelled be valid for a period of..................................................commencing from20..../.............to......................

Director GeneralDateDepartment of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources

(Regulation 8)

SCHEDULE IV

Port State inspection procedure

Inspectors shall :

a)verify, to the extent possible, that the boat identification documentation onboard and information relating to theowner of the boat is true, complete and accurate, including through appropriate contacts with the flag state orinternational records of boats if necessary;

b)verify that the boat’s flag and markings (e.g. name, registration number, International Maritime Organisation(IMO) ship identification number ,international radio call sign and other markings, main dimensions) are consistentwith the information contained in the documentation;

c)verify, to the extent possible, that the authorizations for fishing and fishing related activities are true, complete,accurate and consistent with the information provided in accordance with schedule II;

d)review all other relevant documentation and records held onboard , including, to the extent possible , those inelectronic format and vessel monitoring system (VMS) data from the flag State or Indian Ocean Tuna Commision(IOTC) Secretariat or other relevant Regional Fisheries Management Organizations (RFMOs). Releventdocumentation may include logbooks, catch, transshipment and trade documents ,crew lists, storage plans anddrawings, descriptions of fish holds, and documents required pursuant to the Convention on International Tradein Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora;

e)examine, to the extent possible, all relevant fishing gear onboard , including any gear stowed out of sight as wellas related devices, and to the extent possible, verify that they are in conformity with the conditions of theauthorizations . The fishing gear shall , to the extent possible, also be checked to ensure that features such as themesh and twine size, devices and attachments, dimensions and configuration of nets,pots,dredges,hook sizesand numbers are in conformity with applicable regulations and that the markings correspond to those authorizedfor the boat;

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

f)determine, to the extent possible, whether the fish on board was harvested in accordance with the applicableauthorizations;

g)examine the fish, including by sampling,to determine its quantity and composition. in doing so , inspectors mayopen containers where the fish has been pre-packed and move the catch or containers to ascertain the compositionof fish holds. Such examination may include inspections of product type and determination of nominal weight;

h)determine whether there is sufficient evidence to belive that a boat has been engaged in Illegal, Unreported,Unregulated ( IUU) fishing or fishing related activities in support of such fishing;

i)provide the master of the boat with the report containing the result of the inspection, including possible measuresthat could be taken, signed by the inspector and the master. The master’s signature on the report shall serve onlyas acknowledgment of the receipt of a copy of the report. The master shall be given the opportunity to add anycomments or objection to the report, and as appropriate, to contact the relevant Authorities of the flag State inparticular where the master has serious difficulties in understanding the content of the report . A copy of thereport shall be provided to the master ; and

i)arrange, where necessary and possible, for translation of relevant documentation.

14AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

(Regulation 8)SCHEDULE VIndian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) Port Inspection report form

1. Inspection report

No.

2. Port State

3. Inspecting

Authority4. Name of principal

inspector5. Port of inspection6. Commencement of

inspection7. Completion of

inspection8. Advanced

notification received9. Purpoes (s)

10. Port and State and

date of lastport call11. Name of the boat12. Flag State13. Type of boat14. International Radio Call Sign15. Certificate of registration No.16. IMO ship registration No., if available17. Any other registration No., if available18. Port of registry19. Boat owner(s)20. Boat beneficial owner(s), if known and different

from boat owner21. Boat operation(s), if different from boat owner22. Boat master name and natonality23. Fishing master name and nationality24. Boat agent25. VMSNOYes: National Yes: RFMO(s) Type26. Status in IOTC, including IUU vessel listing

Vessel identifierRFMOFlag State statusVessel and authorizedVessel on IUU vessel list vessel list

27. Relevant fishing authorization(s)

IdentifierIssued byValidityFishing area(s)SpeciceGear

28. Relevent transshipment authorization (s)

IdentifierIssued byValidityIdentifierIssued byValidity29. Transshipment information concerning doner boats

YYYYMMDDLANTRAPROOTH (specifty

YYYYMMDDHH

YYYYMMDDHH

Identity Card No.

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

NamePlag ServiceRegistration No.SpeciceProductionCashQuantity

30.Evaluation of offladede by catch (quantity)speciesProductsCatchQuantity declaredQuantityDifference betweenfromarea(s)landedquantity declared andquantity determined, if any

31.Catch retained onboard (quantity)specisProductsCatchQuantity declaredQuantityDifference betweenfromarea(s)landedquantity declared andquantity determined, if any

32. examination of logbook(s) and other

documentation33. compliance with applicable catch

documentation scheme(s)34. compliance with applicable trade

information scheme(s)35. type of gear used36. gear examined in accordance with paragraph(e)

of schedule IV37. Findings by inspector(s)

38. Apparent infringement(s) noted including reference to relevant legal instrument

39. Comments by the master

40. Action taken

41. Masters signature

42. Inspectors signature

YesNoComments

YesNoComments

YesNoComments

YesNoComments

16AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015

(Regulation 12)

SCHEDULE VI

Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) Transshipment declaration

Carrier VesselFishing Vessel

Name of the Vessel and Radio Call Sign :Name of the Vessel and Radio Call Sign :

Flag :Flag :

Flag State License Number :Flag State License Number :

National Register Number, if available :National Register Number, if available :IOTC Register Number, if available:IOTC Register Number, if available:

DayMonthHourYearAgent's name Master's name of LSTVMaster's name of Carrier

DepatureFrom

ReturntoSignatureSignatureSignature

Transsipment

Indicate the weight in kilograms or the unit used (e. g. box, basket) and the landed weight in kilograms of this unit Kilograms

LOCATION OF TRANSSIPMENT

SpeciesPortSeaType of product

WholeGuttedHeadedFilleted

It transshipment effected at sea, Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) Observer Name and Signature :

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.04 - 396/2