==== BLOCKS ==== 

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.20181A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk1A – G28490 – 11 (2018/09)

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

w;s úfYIThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

EXTRAORDINARY

(Published by Authority)

PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL

Government Notifications

wxl 2088$19 – 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 10 jeks i÷od – 2018'09'10No. 2088/19 – MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2018

My No.: CI/05.

THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131

The Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, No. 21, Sri Razik Fareed Mawatha, Colombo01 of the one part and the Ceylon Bank Employees Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 16th January,2018 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments ofCeylon (Revised Edition 1956).

A. WIMALAWEERA,Commissioner General of Labour.

Department of Labour,Labour Secretariat,Colombo 05.04th September, 2018

2AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

Collective Agreement No. 03 of 2018

COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON PLC, COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT

Junior Executive Assistants and Allied Grades

This Collective Agreement made and entered on this 16th day of January, 2018, between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, aBank duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at No. 21, Sri Razik Fareed Mawatha (Formerly Bristol Street).Colombo 01. (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Bank’),

of the One Part

and

The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at No. 20,Temple Road, Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’)

of the Other Part.

With a view to a revision of the terms and conditions of the Junior Executive Assistants and Allied Grades emoployed by theBank, an agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms andconditions, cooperation between the Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining an efficient and productive workingenvironment, and the matters agreed upon are set out hereunder.

1. Parties to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (theBank), The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on permanent monthly contractsof employment by the Bank in the grade of Junior Executive Assistants and Allied Grades for whom a salary range is beenprescribed in this agreement in the Schedule I hereto (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Employees’). subject to the provisions ofClauses 5, 6 hereof.

2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be in force from the 1st January 2018 and shall continueuntil either party terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, as amended, but no such notice shallbe given before the 31st December 2020. The Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revisedCollective Agreement at any time on or after 1st April 2020.

3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement entered into or binding oneither party hereto and such earlier Agreements, including the Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Collective Agreement for JuniorExecutive Assistants and Allied Grades entered into on 31st December 2014 between the parties hereto (Agreement No. 01 of2015) shall stand repudiated.

4. Matters Covered and Bound.–

(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the mattersraised by the Union and/or in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before theconclusion of this Agreement and the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of thisAgreement raise any of the matters which were discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding thisAgreement except to the extent agreed.

(b) It is agreed by the parties covered and bound by this Agreement that they shall not during the continuancein force of this Agreement seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment orbenefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.20183A

5. Consolidated Salary.– Employees covered by this Agreement and in service as at the date of this Agreement shall,from the 1st January, 2018 be placed within the salary range stipulated in Schedule I hereto, in the manner set out in Clause 6(i),(ii) and (iii) hereof.

The Employees entitled to a salary revision with effect from the date of this Agreement will receive such revision witheffect from 1st January, 2018 along with EPF and ETF payments.

6. Immediate Increase and Conversion of Salaries.–

For the placement of an Employee within the salary range stipulated in Schedule I hereof, the following provisions shallapply:

(i) (a) In the first year of operation of this Agreement, Employees who are in the grade of Junior Executive Assistants(who have completed probation) shall be first placed at the minimum salary of Rs. 46,500/- per month witheffect from 1st January, 2018,

(b) The minimum salary of all Employees who come to the Junior Executive Assistant Grade with effect from2nd January, 2018 will be placed at Rs. 42,500/- per month and such salary will be increased to Rs. 46,500/- uponconfirmation in such Grade.

(ii) All Employees covered under this Agreement will be given an increment as per the below table on the salary as of31st December, 2017:

Salary RangeIncrement Amount

Up to Rs. 75,000/-Rs. 7,500/-Rs. 75,001/- to Rs. 86,000/-Rs. 8,000/-Rs. 86,001/- and aboveRs. 8,500/-

(iii) (a) After granting such increment as detailed under 6(ii) above, if the salary is below the minimum salary stipulatedunder 6(i) above, such Employee would be brought to the minimum salary stipulated under 6(i) above.

(b) After granting such increment as detailed under 6(ii) above, if the salary is below Rs. 60,000/- and if anEmployee has completed a service period of five years in the Bank, as of 1st January, 2018, (which includeshis period with the Bank as a Banking Trainee), such Employee would be placed at a minimum salary ofRs. 60,000/- per month.

(iv) (a) The minimum salary of Employees who are already in the Junior Executive Assistant Grade by 1st January2018, but on probation, will be Rs. 42,500/- and such Employee will be given an increment of 8% on the saidminimum salary. On completion of the probation period, an increase of Rs. 4,000/- shall be added to the salaryat the time of confirmation.

(b) A sum equal to 8% of the gross salary paid as at 31st December 2017 or as adjusted in accordance with 6 (i)above shall be added to the salaries of such employees with effect from 1st January 2018, excluding theEmployees covered under 6(iv)(a) above.

(v) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement and having served in such Grade for a period ofnot less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increase calculated on the gross salaryas at 31st December 2018 with effect friom the 1st January 2019, and proportionately for service less than twelve(12) completed months at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12th) of such increase in respect of each completed month ofService.

4AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

(vi) Every employee in employment in a Grade covered by this Agreement and having served in such Grade for a periodof not less than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 5% increase calculated on the grosssalary as at 31st December 2019 with effect from the 1st January 2020 and proportionately for service less thantwelve (12) completed months at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12th) of such increase in respect of each completedmonth of service.

(vii) Employees will not be entitled to receiave any payments by way of a cost of living allowance.

7. Payments and Reimbursements.–

(a) Travelling Payment -

Each Employee shall be entitled to receive a travelling payment of Rs. 3,000/- per month.

(b) Holiday Incentive.-

Each Employee shall be entitled to receive a holiday incentive of Rs. 30,000/- on account of Expenses incurredon a Holiday during not less than ten consecutive days of annual leave taken in any year.

(c) Disturbance Payment.-

An Employee who will be required to report to work at the following times will be entitled to a DisturbancePayment as follows:

Before 4:00 a.m.-Rs. 800/-Before 5:00 a.m.-Rs. 700/-Before 6:00 a.m.-Rs. 650/-Before 7:00 a.m.-Rs. 500/-Before 7.30 a.m.-Rs. 300/-

8. Increments/Incremental Date.–

(a) The annual increments due to an Employee will be determined in terms of the relevant grading in the annualperformance appraisal applicable to such Employees and the increment granted shall be as follows:

(i) Satisfactory performance-Rs. 500/-(ii) Good performance-Rs. 650/-(iii) Superior performance-Rs. 1000/-(iv) Outstanding performance-Rs. 1,250/-

The increment of Rs.500/- will be granted unless it is otherwise withheld on account of disciplinary reasons.

(b) The effective date of annual increments of Employees is 1st April

9. Career Progression Scheme for Secretarial Assistants.–

1.Promotion From Grade I to Grade II

(a) A Secretarial Assistant who complets seven years in Secretarial Assistant Grade I or a combination ofseven years as a Stenographer and a Secretarial Assistant, provided she has a minimum of four yearsexperience as a Secretarial Assistant, shall be promoted to Grade II after an application made by theEmployee. However, that promotion to Grade II will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently goodrecord of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality, or

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.20185A

(b) Employees who sit and successfully pass the Examination of the Academy for Administrative Professionalsor the Internal Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test will be considered for placement of Grade II, subject to theconditions referred to at (i) and (ii) hereunder, provided, however, that their past record of overall performance,attendance and conduct as assessed by the Bank justifies such consideration:

(i) on successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretairal Administrative Practice conducted bythe Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test set by the Bankplus five completd years of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade I, or

(ii) on successful completion of the Part II of the examination of the Diploma in Secretarial AdministrativePractice Stage II conducted by the Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four completed yearsof service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade I.

(c) On promotion to Grade II an employee shall receive not less than the value of two increments (2) in GradeI entitled for ‘‘Satisfactory’’ rating when placed in Grade II.

2.Promotion from Grade II to Grade III

The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a Secretarial Assistant from Grade II to III after anapplication made by the Employee. However, that promotion to Grade III will not be automatic but will depend ona consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.

(a) Any Secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven years in Grade II shall be placed on Grade III, or

(b) On successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I conductedby the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test set by theBank plus five completed years of service in the Secretarial Assistant Grade II, or

(c) On successful completion of the Diploma in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage II conducted by theAcademy for Administrative Professionals plus four complete years of service in the Secretarial AssistantGrade II.

(d) On promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not lessthan the value of two increments in Grade II, entitled for ‘‘Satisfactory’’ rating.

3.Promotion from Grade III to Grade IV

The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a Secretarial Assistant from Grade III to IV after anapplication made by the Employee. However, that promotion to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend ona consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality:

(a) Any Secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven years in Grade III shall be placed on Grade IV,or

(b) On successful completion of the Diploma in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage II conducted by theAcademy for Administrative Professionals plus four complete years of service in Secretarial AssistantGrade III, or

(c) On successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I conductedby the Academy for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/Aptitude Test set by theBank, together with five completed years of services in Grade III.

(d) On promotion to Grade IV an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not lessthat the value of two (2) increments on Grade III entitled for ‘‘Satisfactory’’ rating.

6AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

10. Re-designation of Secretarial Assistants Junior Executive Assistant Grade.–

A secretaial / Assistant shall be considered for re-designation as Junior Executive Assistant provided he/shepossesses the following eligibility requirements:

(a) Three (3) years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grades and passing the Intermediatein Banking and Finance/Certificate in Banking and Finance/Intermediate in Aaplied Banking and Finance ofthe Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka.

(b) On completion of the Final Examination – Diploma in Banking and Finance/Diploma in Applied Banking andFinance of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka.

(c) Six (6) years combined service in borth Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grades and the relevant qualificationsfor entry as a Junior Executive Assistant.

(d) Six (6) years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grade without the requisite qualificationsfor entry as a Junior Executive Assistant but subject to success at a written examination and IT practical testconducted by the Bank or on confirmation from the respective Branch Manager / Heads of Departments thatthe Employee concerned is suitable for re-designation and has been performing duties of a Junior ExecutiveAssistant for four (4) consecutive years and the successful completion of the practical test and interviewconducted by the Bank.

Provided that where an Employee is promoted as a Junior Executive Assistant under sub clause (a) above,he/ she shall have three (3) years service and the required qualifications or have six (6) years service as aJunior Executive Assistant to be considered for promotion thereafter.

11. Provident Fund. –

(a) Rate of Contribution. -

The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund Bank shall be :

Bank’s contribution-12% (twelve percent)* of salaryEmployee’s contribution -8% (eight percent) of salary

* Provide however, any increase to the Employers' contribution in terms of the EPF Act, No. 15 of 1958 asamended and any direction in furtherance to that by the authorities shall be adopted by the Bank.

Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof subject to theRules of he Provident Fund.

(b) Interest on Provident Fund Contributions held by the Bank.-

Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interestpaid of 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/= published by the N.S.B prevailing as at the 1stJanuary for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st July for the second half of the yearon the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.20187A

(c) Deficiency in Bank’s Contributions to Provident Fund to an Employee not entitled to a Pension .-

Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank and such Employee is not entitle to a pension orpayment in lieu of pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entiled to the difference between theBank’s contributions made to the Fund during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate ofcontribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the Employee’s Provident Fund Act and its amendmentsfrom time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf of such Employee. Such deficiencywill be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and 10% of basicsalary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31st March 1992.

From 01.01.1971 to 31.12.1980-9% of gross salaryFrom 01.01.1981 onwards-12% of gross salary

Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary),which was less than 10% of basic salary, and therefore no deficiency arises.

12. Terminal Benefits.–

(a) Pensions.–

An Employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his/her letter of appointment to the position ofJunior Executive Assistant with the Bank, shall upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank and who is inthe permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than ten (10) years ofactual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computedon the following basis :

(i) Employees opting to retire at 55 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 35 years) plus 5 years

55

(ii) Employees opting to retire at 60 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 40 years) plus 5 years

60

(b) Premature Retirement on Medical Grounds / Disability.-

An Employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his letter of appointment to the position of JuniorExecutive Assistant with the Bank and who is found to be unable to continue to perform his duties as a resultof infirmity/disability, as certified by the Bank’s Doctor/Medical Specialist/Government Medical Board, andwho is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pensioncomputed on the same basis referred to at clause 12 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee isentitled to compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, suchemployee shall only be entitled to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both.Provided further that in the case of an employee whose premature retirement occurred in consequence of anaccident which entitled him to compensation, the pre - acceptance of pension as provided herein will notrestrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation under any writtenlaw.

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the monthof Retirement

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the monthof Retirement





8AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

(c) Lump Sum Gratuity in Lieu of Pension Rights.-

An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in expressed terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretionopt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other payments arising therefrom.The payment will be computed on the following basis :

(i) Employees opting to retire at 55 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 35 years) plus 5 years

(ii) Employees opting to retire at 60 years

Number of completed years ofpensionable service (subject to amaximum of 40 years) plus 5 years

The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank onaccount of the cessation of employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency (if any), in the Bank’scontribution to Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension in terms of Clause 12.

(d) Death Gratuity .–

On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the Bank, theBank will make a compassionate payment of two months gross salary for each year of completed servicesubject to a minimum of nine months’ gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased Employee, asmay be determined by the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the caseof the death of an employee who is not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of thatpayable to a confirmed Employee provided that in the case of an Employee who has not been confirmedconsequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will be calculated as in the case of aconfirmed Employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary.

Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependentsshall be entitled to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensationunder any laws in force at the time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or anAward of Court, whichever is higher. Provided further that in the case of an Employee whose death occurredin consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as provided herein shall not restrict the right of suchdependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to them under any written law.

(e) Gratuity on Resignation/ Termination Prior to Retirement.–

An employee shall, upon resignation/ termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances whichdo not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to at the aforementioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) beentitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983), which shall be paid within 30days of the cessation of employment.

The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5.

(f) Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/leave without pay, but subject to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 22 thereof.

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the monthof Retirement

Monthly Gross salarypayable for the month

of Retirement





I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.20189A

(g) Commuted Pension–

(i) An Employee entitled to a pension in terms of (a) and (b) above, may at the time of retirement exercise theoption to accept a sum of 25% of his monthly pension multiplied by one hundred and twenty (120) byway of a lump sum.

(ii) Where an Employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pensionpayable to him during the first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would havebeen entitled to at the time of retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the tenyears the amount of the monthly pension so commuted will be restored and added to the monthlypension then being paid.

(h) Alternate terminal benefit plan.–

(i) An Employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan under the Re-structured Pension Schemeoffered by the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age norwill such employee be entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built-in to the terminal benefits lump-sum payable under the re-structured scheme at the time of retirement/separation.

(ii) Further, as per the Re-structured Pension Scheme, in the event of early separation prior to retirement(excluding death) an employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the DefinedContribution Fund Account, subject to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.

(iii) However, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will bereleased to the nominated party/parties or legal heirs.

19. Medical Scheme.–

(i) Reimbursement of Medical Expenses - (Non-Hospitalisation Expenses)

The Bank will reimburse an Employee up to a maximum of Rs. 30,000/- in respect of medical expenditureincurred by him/her on his/her own behalf or on behalf of his/her spouse or unmarried legitimate childrenunder the age of 21 in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/non-surgical and specialist treatment.

An Employee who has a differently-abled child/children is entitled to receive Rs. 60,000/= per annum asmedical expenses in addition to the amount specified above, subject to the recommendation of the MedicalBoard and registration with the Compensation and Benefits Unit of the Bank.

(ii) Special Non - Hospitalisation and Non - Surgical Expenditure.–

The Bank will reimburse an employee on a non - cumulative basis a further sum as given below per annum onaccount of special non - hospitalisation and non - surgical expenses covering the following items onlyincurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family members in keeping with existing practice:

(a) Spectacles-Rs. 20,000/-(b) Dentures/ Nerve Filling/ Root Filling-Rs. 15,000/-(c) Hearing Aids-Rs.20,000/-

Subject to valid documentation as detailed in (iv) hereunder, and subject to the provisions that no claim ismade in relation to any particular item more than once in three (3) years other than in the case of employeesover the age of Forty (40) years who will be entitled to reimbursements on account of spectacles once in twoyears. In respect of spectacles, it must be supported by a prescription from a medical eye specialist.

10AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

(iii) Surgical and Hospitalisation Expenditure .–

Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and hospitalisation (whether Government or Private)expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse and unmarried legitimate children under Twenty one(21) years of age subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or expenditure, up tothe following limits per annum:

(a)Hospital or Nursing Room Charges:Daily Limit-Rs. 12,000/-Government Hospital Payment-Rs. 4,000/-

The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone intensive caretreatment.

(b)Emergency Treatment Travel expenses (maximum) -Rs. 4,500/-*The rate is Rs. 45/- per kilometer

(c)Overall Limit for any one year-Rs. 280,000/-

Where the employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medical checkups, withoutbeing admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000/- per annum in addition to this entitlement.

Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full body medical checkups,without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000 per annum, under the reimbursement ofhospitalization expenditure.

(iv) General .–

If both Husband and Wife are employees, and the bills pertaining to the Surgical and Hospitalistion Expenditureexceeds the limit of one employee, the balance to be paid out of the spouse's entitlement subject to a maximumof 50% of the full entitlement/ available limit.

Normal child birth will be included for reimbursement under medical expenses subject to the above limits upto two (2) times.

All medical claims mentioned above, except for Reimbursement of Medical Expenses for Non -HospitalisationExpenses shall be supported by valid and relevant prescription, bills and receipts. Prescriptions or Doctor’sbills shall be from a Registered Medical Practitioner.

The Schedule II hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.

14. Retirement.–

(a)The age of retirement shall be 60 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and itsemployees, and on reaching the age of 60, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipsofacto retire and cease to be employed by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give suchEmployee any notice of such retirement.

(b)An employee may also be retired within a period of 5 years prior to his retirement age and be eligible forretirement benefits if he has ten (10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between theemployee, his Union and the employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the conditionthat the refusal by any party to agree to such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201811A

15. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia, the Bank will each year payto every employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month ofDecember in respect of one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less thanone year at the rate of one-twelfth of such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service. However, if an employeeis terminated/resigned from services before completion of one year meaning January to December, he is not entitled for anybonus.

16. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of six months probation subject to the rightof the Bank to extend the period of probation by a period of three months.

17. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers.–

An office bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work without payment of any salary, allowance or anyother payment of whatever nature on the following basis:

(a) The total number of Office Bearers so released shall not exceed one.

(b) No employee shall be released for more than two years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) years.

(c) On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive incrementalcredit for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights under Clause 11hereof.

18. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councilors.–

(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any onegiven occasion without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Bearers to be present atinquiries before the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with the BankManagements - exclusively on matters pertaining to the Bank.

(b) It is agreed that General Council Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon on 12 days ina year for General Council meetings. In the case of outstation General Council Members, they would bepermitted leave for the whole day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year. For this purpose an outstationBranch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.

(c) It is agreed that a days’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councillors toattend Parent Union General Council meetings.

(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the ExecutiveCommittee of the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.

(e) it is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pay up to a maximum of one day, once in two years, allemployees in the membership of the Central Committee of the Union and the union Branch Delegates in theBank, to attend the National Delegates Conference of the Union provided however, that the Bank is given twoweeks written notice of the Conference and not more than one employee attached to any single Branch/Department of the Bank is so released.

19. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by theBank paid leave to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such Branch, i.e., if thereare X branches the total number of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is onesituated more than 30 miles from Colombo.

12AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

20. Special payments / Reimbursements.–

(a) Out of Pocket Payments.–

An Employee required to work outside normal working hours on a weekday will be entitled to an Out of pocketPayment as detailed below for each completed hour up to a maximum of 4 hours.

During the Year 2018 -Rs. 315/-During the Year 2019 -Rs. 340/-During the Year 2020 -Rs. 350/-

An Employee, working on a weekday after 8.30 p.m. shall be entitled to a Dinner Payment of Rs. 350/-

(b) Work on Holidays.–

An Employee will be entitled to an Out of pocket Payment per hour as detailed below during work on holidays,provided such Employee has completed a minimum of 3 hours of work. This entitlement is available up to amaximum of 10 hours;

During the Year 2018 -Rs. 420/-During the Year 2019 -Rs. 450/-During the Year 2020 -Rs. 475/-

No Employee will be entitled to separate Meal/Dinner payment for work on holidays.

(c) Minicom Centers/Saturday Banking/365 Days Banking.–

An Employee will be entitled to an Out of pocket Payments per hour as detailed below during work onholidays, provided such Employee has completed a minimum of 3 hours of work. This entitlement is availableup to a maximum of 10 hours;

During the Year 2018 -Rs. 445/-During the Year 2019 -Rs. 475/-During the Year 2020 -Rs. 500/-

In the event a Barach not carrying out Saturday or 365 day Banking, is directed by the Bank to be opened forbusiness on a holiday, Employees who report at the Branch on account thereof will aslo be entitled to calimOut of Pocket payment as specified above.

In respect of staff working at Minicoms the maximum number of hours for the purpose of this payment shallbe eleven (11) instead of ten (10) hours referred to above.

No Employee will be entitled to a separate Meal/Dinner Payment for work on weekend/holidays.

Special Payment.–

(i) Employee asigned to Supermarket Outlets will be entitled for a special payment of Rs. 6,000/- per month.

(ii) Employee assigned to Minicom Branches, will be entitled for a special payment of Rs. 2,500/- per month.The payment mentioned in (ii) above will be applicable to locations.–

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201813A

Where such branch is open to customers on hours which are differnent to the normal working hours of theBank; i. e. from 9 a.m. to 3 p. m. on weekdays.

Where such branch is located in a separate premises other than a supermarket, but is not provied withsepareate wash rooms/lunch rooms.

Where such brach is located in a stand alone building, and provided with separate wash rooms/lunchrooms.

As at the time of signing of this Collective Agreement, such Minicom Branches are Akurana, Badulla,Beruwela, Bokundara, Gampaha, Hendala, Je-ela, Katubedda, katugastota, Katukurunda, Kilinochchi,Kirulapone, Kurenegala, Nawala, Ratnapura.

(d) Shift Payment (IT Department/Card Centre/Digital Banking Unit /BIA Arrival and Departure).–

Weekdays (additional shift)

An Employee having to work additional hours on weekdays will be entitled to a Shift Payment as detailedbelow per each completed hour;

During the Year 2018 -Rs. 335/-During the Year 2019 -Rs. 360/-During the Year 2020 -Rs. 370/-

An Employee, working on a weekday after 8.30 p.m. shall be entitled to a Dinner Payment of Rs. 350/-

No other payment will be applicable in addition to the above. However, any other allowances/payments suchas the Disturbance Allowance, Dineer Allowance, Travelling Payment, on call Allowance and CombinedAllowance will be paid to Employees where applicable.

Holidays (day shift)

An Employee having to work on holidays will be entitled to a Shift Payment as detailed below per eachcompleted hour-

During the Year 2018 -Rs. 440/-During the Year 2019 -Rs. 470/-During the Year 2020 -Rs. 495/-

No other payment will be applicable in addition to the above. However any other allowances/payments suchas the Disturbance Allowance, Dinner Allowance, Travelling Payment, on-call Allowance and CombinedAllowance will be paid to Employees where applicable.

Holidays (night shift)

An Employee will be entitled to a Shift Payment as detailed below per each completed hour during night workon holidays-

During the Year 2018 -Rs. 470/-During the Year 2019 -Rs. 495/-During the Year 2020 -Rs. 520/-

14AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

Night Shift Payment (Weekdays/Weekends)

An Employee required to work during night, will be entitled to a Night Shift payment of Rs. 600/- per night inaddition to the above -

22 . Professional Association Membersihp.–

(i) In respect of full membership in the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the Indian Institute of Banking andFinance, the Bank will reimburse the Employee the sum paid way of annual subscription.

(ii) Provided alos, in the event of the Bank requiring an Employee to obtain any qualifications of a recognizedprofessional organization, other than Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, and the Employee fulfils suchrequirement, the Bank shall pay subject to the recommendation of the respective Member of the CorporateManagement and the approval of Deputy General Manager- Human Resource Management the cost ofsuch course/examination as well as annual subscription as relevant on behalf of such Employee to suchprofessional Organiztion.

22 . Leave.–

An Employee will be entitled to leave as applicable to the Executive staff of the Bank. i.e. 7 days of Casualleave, 24 days of medical Leave and one calendar month (30 days) of Annual Leave, subject to theprocedure of granting of the said leave.

(a) Annual Leave.–

(i) Entitlement.–

In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during which andemployee has been in continuous employment he/she shall be entitled to take in the following year up toone calender month of paid leave. He shall avail him self of at least ten (10) days out of the calendar monthon successive days and shall in respect of each year avail him self of not less than fourteen 14 days outof the said calendar month.

(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :

(a) The full annual holiday of one calendar month if his employment commenced on or after 1st Januarybut before 1 st April.

(b) A holiday of 21 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.

(c) A holiday of 15 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1stOctober, and

(d) A holiday of 8 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.

(iii) Availment.–

The Availment of all Annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’sapplication, giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.

(iv) Accumulation.–

Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee at the rate of 10 days per annum exclusively forpurposes referred hereunder up to a maximum period of 90 days:

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201815A

(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.

(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.

(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.

(d) For marriage of the employee

(e) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’sleave.

(f) For purpose of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.

(g) Prolonged illness of the employee

(v) Any annual leave not utilized by an employee up to a maximum of 10 days per year in excess of the numberof ninety (90) days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the employee on request at anamount equal to one (1) day’s salary per each day unavailed of.

(vi) Provided that in the case of (iv) (b) to (f) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of theManagement.

(vii) Family member for purposes of (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents

(b) Medical Leave.–

(i) Entitlement .–

An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or otherholidays in any one (1) year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii)hereof.

(ii) The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness notsupported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.

(a) Where such period of absence exceeds two (2) consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or

(b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a RegisteredMedical Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.

(iii) Accumulation .–

An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled toavail himself of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to thefollowing provisions ;

(a)In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation,exceed ninety (90) days, and

(b)The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness,hospitalization or similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered MedicalPractitioner,

(c)Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illnesssuch as an infectious disease or prolonged hospitalizations, the employer may permit him to set offany further absence on grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extentof the leave taken for such earlier prolonged illness.

16AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / or takeany action as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by aCertificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :

(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and / or reason forabsence of an employee, or ;

(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes anyweekly or other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the applicationand/or reason for absence of the employee.

(c) Casual Leave.–

An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of employment whereofnot more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not precede or follow anyperiod of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless the reason for suchabsence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not have been foreseenby such employee.

(d) Maternity Leave.–

The leave that an Employee is entitled to in this regard shall be governed as per tha provisions of the Shop andOffice Employees’ Act. However, where a female Employee has given birth to twins/triplets/other multiple birthsupon her first confinement, she will be entitled to enhanced maternity leave of 84 working days in respect of hernext confinement, provided it is a live birth.

23. Suspension. –

(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to theprovisions of Sub-clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six monthsand full pay thereafter, subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.

(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation,the employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is notconcluded within six months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary during hissuspension beyond the said six months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to theemployee’s own conduct or due to the employee being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible forthe Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as aforementioned will not be payable.

(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concludingthe inquiry within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where theemployee makes repeated requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in Police custody or wherethe matter is under investigation by the Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will notreceive full pay in these circumstances.

24. Disciplinary Procedure. – Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except,however, in the case of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shallapply ;

(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended or not, the employee shall be furnished with a showcause letter which shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause lettershall give the employee not less than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing tothe charges preferred.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201817A

(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to theBank his explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable, theemployee may request the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation andwhere such request is made, the Bank shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as isconsidered necessary by the Bank in the circumstances.

(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show causeand the Bank is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee andif the employee is under suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to suchemployee his salary and entitlements in respect of the period of such suspension.

(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is notsatisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into thecharges against such employee.

(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the dateof receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so forreasons beyond the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason ofunforeseen circumstances.

(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accusedemployee or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itselfthe right to prevent the person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) to defend the accusedemployee at a domestic inquiry provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. Thedefending employee will not suffer any loss of salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank willfurther allow another member of the Branch Union to be present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss ofsalary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit to the Bank in writing the name of theDefending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the commencement ofthe inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused employee andcross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a Defending Employee orObserver who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defending Employee or Observer shallforthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a Defending Employee or Observer from the whole orany part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, northe findings pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he mayanswer any question which the inquiring Officer may ask him.

(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and theaccused employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and acopy issued to the accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true copyof such proceedings before the inquiring Officer.

(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution aswell.

(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing,of the findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.

(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working daysexcept for reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employeeshall not be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall bedrawn in respect of such charges.

18AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any ofthe following circumstances :

(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to showcause in which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employeehad no cause to show.

(ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.

(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request theEmployer thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence withintwenty one (21) working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding onthe Bank and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months fromthe date on which the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute inrespect of such findings and/ or punishment.

(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -

(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall takeeffect as from the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that theBank shall not be entitled to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to theemployee in respect of such period of suspension, if any such payment has been made.

(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith andshall be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the rightof the Bank to impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or partof the period of suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.

(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held inview of the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or otherauthorities for investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against theemployee.

25. Technology.–

(i) Schedule III hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking Technology agreed upon betweenthe parties.

(ii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer BasedBanking Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii)above.

(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute onmatters relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regardand any representations/ dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial disputeunder the laws of Sri Lanka.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201819A

(iv) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall bereferred to the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of theMonitoring Committee not being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department ofHealth and Safety of the Labour Department and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall beaccepted by both parties and where changes are necessary in terms of such recommendation the MonitoringCommittee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to implement such changes.

26. Trade Union Action.–

(a) Matters Related and Covered in the Agreement.–

(i) The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with theBank that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike orother form of Trade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any formof collective action against the Bank in respect of any dispute related to this Agreement.However,a dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for a fresh Collective Agreement after 31st day ofDecember, 2020, cannot be construed interpreted and/or implied by the Employer as a dispute related tothis Agreement.

(ii) In the event there been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute arising out of a failed negotiation for afresh Collective Agreement aforesaid, and if the parent union decides to resort to any form of trade unionaction, the parent union shall give at least fourteen (14) days’ notice in writing to the Bank, the Employers’Federation of Ceylon and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of such trade union action.However such notice shall not be given prior to 31st March, 2021.

(b) Matters Not Related and Not Covered in this Agreement.–

The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bankthat during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form ofTrade Union action including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective actionagainst the Bank in respect of any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –

(i) The Branch Union has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with theBank, at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matterto the Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)

(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhaustedall forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federationof Ceylon.

(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has togive notice in writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactorysettlement of the dispute and that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given tothe Bank, the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.

20AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

27. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has notless than forty (40) per cent membership among the Employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grantcheck-off, provided, however, that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of theUnion violating any of the provisions of this Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.

28. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–

(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement isbeing implemented or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technologychange such matter shall be dealt with by a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of tworepresentatives from the Bank and two representatives from the Union. The Bank or the Union may requestthat a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication addressed to the Employers’Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.

(ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration underSection 3 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1950 as amemded.

29. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.– On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits,facilities and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.

30. Definitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall havethe following meanings.

BankCommercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.

EmployeeAn employee covered and bound by this Agreement.

EmployerCommercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.

Parent Union/UnionThe Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union

Branch UnionThe Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Commercial Bankof Ceylon PLC.

DisputeA dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in theIndustrial disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between theBank and the Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at suchrespective Bank.

SalaryShall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.

Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine

Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201821A

22AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

Schedule I

Junior Executive Assistants and Allied Grades

Salary Range

Rs. 42,500 per mensemRs. 140,000 per mensem

Schedule II

1.The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in Clause 13 of theAgreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligibleto be included in this scheme. No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have notbeen enrolled.

2. (a) Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital.Provided however, where the employee is aged 30 years or above expenses he/ she incurs on account offull body medical checkups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum ofRs. 20,000/= per annum in addition to this entitlement.

(b) Where the Employee is aged 30 years or above, expenses his/her spouse incurs on account of full body medicalcheckups, without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 20,000 per annumunder the reimbursement of hospitalization expenditure.

3.The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admissionto hospital.

4.The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and theemployee shall be required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms)and submit documentation required by Bank/ Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable to the Bank toobtain reimbursement from the Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time totime the documentary requirement and time limit within which documents should be submitted. Where an employeedoes not comply, he will not be entitled to benefits under this scheme.

5.Employees shall up hold the principle of uberima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under thisscheme and any deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any benefit under this scheme. Inaddition, the employee will be liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this Agreement.

6. (a)The Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes,expenses incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and / or deletionsto this list will also be made by internal circulars.

(b)If for reasons of geographical location any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of theInstitutions given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list ofamendments to the list referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use anamed Institution or Institutions and the Bank shall consider such applications on a case by case basis and,where deemed appropriate, will grant such special dispensation, provided however, that the decision of theBank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201823A

7.Exclusions .– The scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :

(a)Occasioned by or happening through,

(i) The participation by employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy,Hostilities (whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny orUsurped Power, Military, Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, Security Force,Home Guard etc.

(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, or any self inflicted injury/sickness.

(iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 13 (iv). Provided that if an employee has been employedfor a continuous period of 12 months, the Bank will pay the Medical Expenses incurred for any abnormalityof maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. The responsibility forfurnishing the Bank with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/Hospital, will be on the employee who makes the claim.

(iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave

(b)Incurred whilst travelling in an Air Craft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standardtype of civil aircraft operated by a recognized Air Line on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard typeof civil aircraft having two or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by aCommercial or Industrial firm and piloted by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.

(c)In respect of Eye Test or Dental Treatment.

(d)Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.

8.The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in clause 13 (iii) of theAgreement shall be deemed to be the period 1 st January to 31 st December. In the case of employees who joinduring the course of a year the overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will bepro-rated to the number of full months of service up to 31st December.

9.In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of theentitlement of either or both years as applicable.

Schedule III

The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technologyby the Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.

1. Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix or VDU/ non VDUtasks which seek to provide variation in visual and mental demands upon the operator.

2. The work load of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring propersafety and effectiveness of the operations.

3. The Banks agree to provide VDU operator with adequate training within the parameters of their job description toensure the safety and health of employees.

24AI fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.2018

4. (a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain the equipment, which will ensure the following :

(i)Screens that give clear stable images.

(ii)Proper sitting of key boards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.

(iii)Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.

(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.

(c) The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, key boards and provide facilities for placingdocuments and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.

(d) The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting facility to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.

(e) Employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of aVDU, will be permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesightexamined prior to his commencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained fromthe Optician, the employee should inform the Bank immediately.

(f) Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Managment of the Bank, is the operationof a VDU, and he is already using spectacles, when he is call upon to operate a VDU for the first time, he will bepermitted, at the expenses of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose ofobtaining an opinion as to whether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examinationand modification to the lenses if necessary, will be borne by the Bank on the following basis.

(i)The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Schemeherein.

(ii)The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such costshould exceed the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.

5. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, theBank is agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours as longas there is no disruption of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.

6. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by theManagement of the Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representationsas to whether the main or primary function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial disputebeing raised on this issue.

7. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively inconsequence of the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself ofany one or more of the following options:

(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform workwhich is within their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at suchtime in relation to such employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment,which the Bank would under normal circumstances be entitled to effect.

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'09'10PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.09.201825A

(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the Bank consider itnecessary.

(c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in thisAgreement, with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this willnot amount to retrenchment within the meaning of this schedule.

8. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees maderedundant consequent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include asituation where such redundant employees voluntarily leave the service of the employers on terms mutually agreedupon.

09 - 658

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA