==== BLOCKS ==== 

w;s úfYI

wxl 1957$18 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 09 jeks nodod - 2016'03'09No. 1957/18 - WEDNESDAY MARCH 09, 2016

EXTRAORDINARY

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL

Government Notifications

1A

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

L.D.B. 277/40

THE ANTIQUITIES ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 188)

Order under Section 18

BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 18 of the Antiquities Ordinance (Chapter 188), I, Akila Viraj Kariyawasam,Minister of Education, do by this Order declare the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order, to be “ProtectedMonuments” for the purposes of the aforesaid Ordinance.

The Notice under Section 19 in relation to the monuments specified in the Schedule to this Order was publishedin Gazette No. 1919 of 12th June 2015.

AKILA VIRAJ KARIYAWASAM,Minister of Education.

Colombo,16th February 2016.

SCHEDULE

LIST OF cONSERVED MONUMENTS TO BE DE CLARED

1. The drip ledged cave called Akaragane Devala belonging to Pahala Ogodapola Village situated in Grama NiladhariDivision No. 601, Ogodapola in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Rideegama in Kurunegala District in NorthWestern Province.

2. Devenagala rock with the complex of archaeological ruins including Chaitya. Preaching hall, rock inscriptions,hillocks of ruins, walls, ponds, plight of steps, caves, places with pre-historic evidences at the premises ofDevanagala Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Devanagala, Udapamunuwa, Karahampitigoda, Ruwandeniya, andKatugahawaththa villages situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 28A, Kekerigoda, No. 33B, DevangalaNo. 33A, Attapitiya and No. 33C. Ruwandeniya belonging to Divisional Secretary’s Divisions Mawanelle andAranayaka in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa province.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.20162A

3. Ancient pond, plight of steps, rampart, stone pillars, chisel holing and other archaeological evidences at the landcalled Maligathennewaththa belonging to Marukwathtura village situated in Grama Niladhari Division,Marukwathura in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Rambukkana in Kegalle District of Sabaragamuwa Province.

4. St. Yohan’s Anglicant Church building situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 1B, Kegalle Town in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Kegalle in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.

5. Place with the sketches of animals at small rock in the middle of the paddy field in front of Agrarian Services Centerin Yattogoda village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Yattogoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division,Galigamuwa in Kegalle District in Sabaragamuwa Province.

6. Makandura Mahawalawwa belonging to Makandura village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Makandura inthe Divisional Secretary’s Division, Godakawela in Rathnapura District in Sabaragamuwa Province.

7. Drip ledged cave complex with cave inscriptions in the area related to Gommottakanda and in the premises ofNagolla Aranya Senasana, situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Pahala Diggala in the Divisional Secretary’sDivision, Galewela in Matale District in Central Province.

8. Cave temple and foot print stone in the premises of Niyandagala Raja Maha Vihara belonging to GurulawelaNorth village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Gurulawela North in the Divisional Secretary’s Division,Ukuwela in Matale District in Central Province.

9. Ancient Atuwa (barn) at the premises of Bulathwaththa Walawwa belonging to Udugoda village situated in GramaNiladhari Division, Udugoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Panvila in Kandy District in Central Province.

10. Arama complex where archaeological evidence including places with ruins of buildings, hillocks of Chaityas, rockinscriptions, drip ledged caves, plight of steps, and stone basin for waching feet are scattered in the premises ofWeheragala Raja Maha Vihara belonging to Aliwanguwa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division. Aliwanguwain the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Wilgamuwa in the Matale District in Central Province.

11. Monarawila Keepetipola Hulangamuwa Maha Walawwa in Hulangamuwa village situated in Grama NiladhariDivsion No. 353/B, Hulangamuwa North in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale in Matale district inCentral Province.

12. Ancient Shrine and Chaitya at the premises of Ancient Vihara, Wattararhenne, Padiyapelella belonging to Ampitigodavillage situated in Grama Niladhari Division Ampitigoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Hanguranketha inNuwaraeliya district in Central Province.

13. Cave complex with drip ledges and stone inscriptions and other archaeological evidences at the premises ofWewalawewa Gallen Aranya Senasana belonging to Wewalawewa village situated in Grama Niladhari DivisionWewalawewa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Dambulla in Matale District in Central Province.

14. Drip ledged cave in the land called Rathnehegedara Hitinawaththa, Ketala, Weliwita Pahalagama, Hatharaliyaddabelonging to Weliwita Pahalagama village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Eramuduliyadda in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Thumpane in Kandy District in Central Province.

15. Cave temple with ancient wall paintings at the premises of Embilla Raja Maha Vihara, Hulangamuwa situated inGrama Niladhari Division Hulangamuwa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Matale in Matale district in CentralProvince.

16. Rock plane with marks of drains and symbols in the area called Viharamulla Galketiya (Suddigewaththa) situatedin Grama Niladhari Division Waththegama in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Siyambalanduwa in MonaragalaDistrict in Uva Province.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.20163A

17. Places with ancinet Chaitya and ruins of buildings at the premises of Weligamawehera Ancient Vihara in Weliaravillage situated in Grama Niladhari Division Kotikambokka in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Wellawayain Monaragala District in Uva Province.

18. Anicent Dagoba, places with ruins of buildings and ancient wall at the premises of Unawatuna Raja Maha Viharabelonging to Unawatuna village in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Buttala in Monaragala District in UvaProvince.

19. Drip ledged cave and two natural caves at the premises of Purana Gallen Vihara belonging to Kandasurindugamavillage situated in Grama Niladhari Division Katharagama in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Katharagamain Monaragala district in Uva Province.

20. Place with the ruins of Buddhist Arama including ruins of buildings, parts of wall and ponds in the area calledWaththegama Miyangodapitiya situated in Grama Niladhari Division Waththegama Viharamulla in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Siyambalanduwa in Monaragala District in Uva Province.

21. Stupa and the place of ruins of buildings at the premises of Gonaganara Walagamba Purana Vihara situated inGrama Niladhari Division Gonaganara in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Buttala in Monaragala District inUva Province.

22. Drip ledged cave at the place of called Pansalwaththa-Usgala situated in Grama Niladhari Division Dambeyayain the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Buttala in Monaragala District in Uva Province.

23. Hillocks of ruins, ponds and places with chisel holing on the rock at the premises of Thunkemgala Raja MahaVihara situated in Thunkemgala village in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Sevanagala in Monaragala Districtof Uva Province.

24. Namaluwa archaeological site with all caves with drip ledges and inscriptions, rock inscriptions, ancient stupa andruins of buildings in Namaluwa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Mahakalugolla in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Siyambalanduwa in Monaragala District in Uva Province.

25. Drip ledged cave and other archaeological evidence belonging to Dankumbura Raja Maha Vihara in Dankumburavillage situated in Grama Niladhari Division Aralupitiya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Ridimaliyaddain Badulla district in Uva Province.

26. Cave temple with rock art, drip ledges at the premises of Kanugolla Shailabimbarama Vihara belonging to Kanugollavillage situated in Grama Niladhari Division Ridimaliyadda South in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Ridimaliyaddain Badulla District in Uva Province.

27. Hillock of runied Chaitya, belonging to Hebarawa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division Hebarawa in theDivisional Secretary’s Division, Mahiyangana in Badulla district in Uva Province.

28. Kalikkad site of the ruins of buildings with ancient stone pillars belonging to Kalikkadu village situated in GramaNiladhari Division No. 106, Mulliyawela Central in the Divisional Secrtary’s Division, Muhudubadapaththu inMullaitivu District in Northern Province.

29. Place with the evidences of Peraru ancient settlement beloging to Peraru village situated in Grama NiladhariDivision No. 57, Peraru in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivu district in NorthernProvince.

30. Place with the ruins of buildings with stone pillars belonging to Peraru village situated in Grama NiladhariDivision, Peraru in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivu district in Northern Province.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.20164A

31. Pandarawanniyar site of ruins at Kachchilamadu village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Kachchilamadu inthe Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivu District in Northern Province.

32. Sinnakulam site of ruins of buildings in Sinnakulam village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Iraneyilluppakulamin the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Madu in Mannar District in Northern Province.

33. Ruins of Maninthale Shivakovil belonging to Maninthale village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. KN68, Gautharamunei in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Punarin in Kilinochchi District in Northern Province.

34. Site of the ruins of Gautharmunei Shivakovil situated in Grama Niladhari Division Gautharamunei in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Punarin in Kilinochchi district in Northern Province.

35. Kulamottei site of ruins with stone wall and hillock of ruins in Ambakamam Kulamottei village situated in GranaNiladhari Division No. 72, Ambakaman in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Oddusuddan in Mullaitivue districtof Northern Province.

36. Walanakare site of ruins with Dagobas and ruins of buildings belonging to Walandakare village situated in GramaNiladhari Division No. 34, Ayyankulam in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Thunukkai in Mullaitivu district inNorthern Province.

37. St. Anne’s Catholic Church building in Polkotuwa village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Polkotuwa inthe Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.

38. Kechchimalei Mosque building belonging to Paranakade village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 753,Paranakade in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala, in Kalutara district in Western Province.

39. St. Sebastian Church building belonging to Diyalagoda village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 741,Diyalagoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara district in Western Province.

40. St. Francis Church building belonging to Maggona village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Diyalagoda inthe Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara district in Western Province.

41. St. Mary’s Church building belonging to Aluthgama Village situated in Grama Niladhari Division AluthgamaEast in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.

42. Shrine with ancient paintings at the premises of Mahagammedda Sri Dharmaguptha Perivena situated in GramaNiladhari Division Mahagammedda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division Beruwala in Kalutara District in WesternProvince.

43. St. Francis Xaviour Church, Payagala situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Mahapayagala in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara district in Western Province.

44. St. Vicenthi Home, Kapugoda (Susinodaya building) belonging to Kapugoda village situated in Grama NiladhariDivison, Kapugoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.

45. Octagon shape building with ancient paintings at the premises of Kande Vihara belonging to Kaluwamodaravillage situated in Grama Niladhari Division, Kaluwamodaya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwala inKalutara district in Western Province.

46. Shrine with ancient paintings at the premises of Dhammikarama Purana Vihara situated in Grama NiladhariDivision, Moragalla in the Divisional Secretary’s Division Beruwala in Kalutara District in Western Province.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'09PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.03.20165A

47. St. Mary’s Church building belonging to Maggona village situated in Grama Niladhari Division No. 742, Maggonain the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Beruwaal in Kalutara District in Western Province.

48. Bendiyamulla Tombstone adjoins Miriswaththa- Gampaha Highway belonging to Bendiyamulla village situated inGrama Niladhari Division, Bendiyamulla in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Gampaha in Gampaha District inWestern Province.

49. Drip ledged cave situated in the land adjoins Warakagoda Gallena Purana Rajamaha Vihara belonging toWarakagoda situated in Grama Niladhari Division, No. 816B, Warakagoda North in the Divisional Secretary’sDivision, Madurawala in Kalutara District in Western Province.

50. Ancient Shrine and other archaeological remains at the premises of Ganegodella Purana Rajamaha Viharabelonging to Kithulgoda village situated in Grama Niladhari Division, No. 833A, Kithulgoda North in theDivisional Secretary’s Division, Agalawaththa in Kalutara District in Western Province.

51. Place with ruins of buildings, place with the evidences of a settlement of pre histroic era and the plight of stepscarved on natural rock at Kalalpitiya Dhathukanda Sri Jinendarama Purana Rajamaha Vihara situated in GramaNiladhari Division No. 343, Kalalpitiya in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Aththanagalla in Gampaha District inWestern Province.

52. Tempita Shrine and Pohoya Seemawa at the premises of Kshestrarama Purana Vihara in Hapuwana village situatedin the Grama Niladhari Division No. 87, Hapuwalana in Divisional Secretary’s Division, Divulapitiya in GampahaDistrict in Western Province.

53. Drip ledged cave temple with paintings and sculptures of Kandy period and two drip ledged caves, hillock ofancient Chaitya, stone wall, plight of steps, found nearby, and other archaeologocial remains scattered in premisesof vihara at Gonagiri Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Puhudivula village situated in Grama Niladhari Divsion No.230, Mahamessalewa in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Kahatagadigiliya in Anuradhapura district in NorthWestern Province.

54. Ancient Chaitya and Shirne at the premises of Hikgoda Sri Sudharmarama Vihara situated in Grama NiladhariDivision, Hikgoda in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Akuress in Matara District in Southern Province.

55. Two ancient Shrines, Chaitya, Chapter house, ancient monk residences, preaching hall, retaining wall around BoTree, ancient devela buildings, place of ruins with ancient stone pillars, place for ruins with stone pillars by westat the premises of vihara and premises of vihara where other archaeological evidence are scattered at ThelwaththaRathpath Rajamaha Vihara belonging to Grama Niladhari Division No. 67, Thelwaththa in the DivisionalSecretary’s Division, Hikkaduwa in Galle District in Southern Province.

56. The area belonging to Ganegodella Rajamaha Vihara, where archaeological remains including ancient shrine,Chaitya, footprint of Buddha, moonstone statue of Buddha and ancient tombstone are scatterd, situated in GramaNiladhari Division No. 17, Nape in the Divisional Secretary’s Division, Balapitiya in Galle District in SouthernProvince.

03-615

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.