I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20191A

w;s úfYI

wxl 2141$52 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 19 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'09'19No. 2141/52 - THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 19, 2019

EXTRAORDINARYThe Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

(Published by Authority)PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERALGovernment Notifications

Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1A - PG 4655 —1517 (2019/09)

Directions to prevent the misuse of movable or immovable properties belonging to the State, StateCorporations or Statutory Boards during the period of an election for the promotion of or inprejudice to any party, group or candidate or obstructing the conduct of the election

THE Election Commission does hereby issue the following directions under Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitutionfor the purpose of preventing the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State, any StateCorporation or Statutory boards for the purpose of promotion or in prejudice of the election of any candidate of anypolitical party or independent group or using such properties in a manner that would obstruct the conduct of theelection.

MAHINDA DESHAPRIYAN. J. ABEYESEKERES. RATNAJEEVAN H. HOOLEChairmanMemberMemberElection CommissionElection CommissionElection Commission

Election Commission,Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya,19th September 2019.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20192A

In terms of Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution "The Election Commission or the Commissioner General ofElections shall have the power during the period of the election to prohibit the use of any movable or immovableproperty belonging to the State or any State Corporation" for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election ofany candidate of any political party or independent group contesting the election. Under Sub-Article (b) of thatArticle it shall be the duty of every person or officer in whose custody or under whose control such property is forthe time being, to comply with, and give effect to such directions issued by the Election Commission. All PublicOfficers including all Secretaries to Ministries,Chief Secretaries of Provinces should comply with these directions.Also the Heads of institutions should ensure that all officers coming under their control do comply with thesedirections. These directions are applicable to all public institutions such as Ministries, Departments, Commissions,Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, State Banks, State Universities andCompanies taken over by the government.

02.Officials

(i)Since the skills and knowledge of public officers and their time are deemed to be State property, nopublic officer should engage in any activity to promote any party or candidate inside or outside theoffice premises within the prescribed office hours or after reporting to work or while on duty leave.Officers who are not entitled to political rights should not engage in political activities even afteravailing leave. Even the officers who are entitled with political rights may engage in political activitiesduring office hours, only on personal leave or special leave approved in advance.

(ii)No officer or employee is entitled to use State properties viz. other public officers, vehicles,communication equipment, printers, telephone facilities, photocopy machines, media equipment, circuitbungalows etc. for political activities and doing so is strictly prohibited.

(iii) Officers should refrain from making any recruitment, appointments and promotions and transfers ofwhatever nature in public institutions without the approval of the Election Commission other than thosewhich are formally executed under the powers vested in the commissions appointed by theConstitutional Council.

(iv)The consent of the Election Commission may be granted for recruitments/ internal promotions initiatedbefore the election is declared considered by the Secretary to a ministry or head of a department toimplement without postponement under an all island programme and when the Commission is satisfiedthat recruitments / promotions common to whole public service or public sector are carried outwithout any political intervention. In any of these instances, a request should be made to theCommission.

(v)When Public Service recruitments are made at divisional or provincial levels for the purpose ofavoiding interruptions to sanitary, janitorial or maintenance services and of maintaining essentialservices, such recruitments should be made with the concurrence of the Election Commission and it isthe responsibility of relevant authorities to carry out such recruitments in a transparent manner and freeof political intervention.

(vi)General transfers of all public officers including teachers and principals of government schools whowould be deployed for election duties in the areas where election is to be held should be suspendedfor the period starting from the day on which the nominations are received and ending two weeks afterthe date of poll. Transfers of public officers or officers of State Corporations/ Statutory Boards whowould not to be engaged in election duties should not be carried out political grounds during the periodof election and it is the responsibility of all relevant authorities to give effect to transfers withoutleaving room for complaints of political intervention. This is not applicable to transfers done ondisciplinary orders and if any transfer is required to be made on exigency of service or under specialcircumstances, such requirement should be brought to the notice of the Election Commission andapproval obtained.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20193A

(vii) It shall be an offence for any public officer who is not entitled to political rights to engage in makingany propagation or statement using his/her private social media account or any other account topromote or to prejudice any political party or candidate. Public officers who are entitled to politicalrights even should not engaged in such propagation using the state resources and making or publishinghate speech shall be an offence.

03.Functions, Mobile Services and Trade Fairs

(i)Functions:

Functions such as laying foundations, opening ceremonies and vesting in the public utilizing governmentfunds and State properties should not be organized or conducted during the period of election since thepoliticians who attend these functions may express opinions and views on the election and conduct of thesefunction ceremonially may lead to the promotion or cause prejudice to any party, group or candidate.

In the case of functions scheduled before the publication of the poll notice and which cannot becancelled or postponed, the Election Commission should be informed for instructions of theCommission to proceed ahead.

In the event of conducting such function spending government funds and if a promotion of or prejudice toany party/group or candidate has taken place at such function, the officials who organized such functionshould be held responsible for same. The officers who organize functions/events should bring to the noticeof the Returning Officers of respective districts of such events scheduled to be held during the period ofelection well in advance enabling them to make arrangements to observe such events and keep records.It isstrictly prohibited to make any statement or to do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners/posters/leaf-lets/notices promoting parties/groups or candidates at any function conducted spending State funds duringthe period of election and the officers or authorities of State institutions who organize or fund such func-tions should prevent such promotions taking place.

(ii)Mobile Services and Trade Fairs.

Since there is a tendency to use the mobile services and trade fairs conducted during the electionperiod utilizing public funds and State property to facilitate the public for the promotion of or causingprejudice to parties/groups or candidates,organizing or conducting of such trade exhibitions orcarnivals should be avoided during the period of the election. It should be brought to the notice of theElection Commission of any such trade exhibitions or carnivals which have been scheduled prior to thepublication of the Notice of Poll to be held during the period of election and impossible to becancelled or postponed, for instructions of the Commission. In the event of conducting such tradeexhibitions or carnivals using government funds and promotion of or prejudice caused to any party/group or candidate is taken place at such trade exhibitions or carnivals, the officials who organizedsuch events should be held responsible for same.The officers who organize mobile services and tradeexhibitions should also take action to bring to the notice of the Returning Officers of respectivedistricts of such events to be held during the period of election well in advance enabling them to makearrangements to observe those and keep records.

It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners /posters /leaflets /notices promoting parties /groups or candidates at mobile services and tradeexhibitions conducted spending State funds during the period of election and the official or Stateinstitutions that organize or fund such events should prevent such promotions or causing prejudice toany candidate or party or group.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20194A

04.Implementation of programmes to provide common amenities and aids and Special Projects

(i)Long term or medium term special programmes may be implemented for the provision of facilities tothe public or for the development of the country or continuous programmes to provide the citizens withcommon amenities and cannot be suspended due to the election. Action should be taken to ensure thatno promotion of or causing of prejudice to any party/group or candidate is taking place through suchspecial projects or continuous programmes after the issue of the Notice of Poll.

(ii)The Election Commission will monitor whether any promotion of parties/groups or candidates is takingplace through the aforesaid special projects or continuous programmes conducted during the period ofelection.

(iii) During the period of election the launch of programmes to distribute State lands to conduct landkachcheris to award title deeds for State lands, deeds to transfer ownership of houses and reliefs toresidents in election areas, providing subsides, fertilizer, agro equipment for the plantation industry, andproviding sports goods, kitchen and household items, equipment for self employment, bicycles, solarpower lamps, building material for house constructions, release of housing loans/ compensations etc.should be suspended. However, if it is apparent that suspension of the programmes will impede themeeting of needs of the general public, the Election Commission should be consulted for necessaryinstructions. In the event the programmes already initiated or for which approval has already beenobtained should be proceeded with, it should be the responsibility of the officers who are charged withsuch programmes to implement them with the participation of only the relevant officials without leavingany room for the promotion of parties/groups or candidates.

05.Vehicles

(i)All officers in whose custody the pool of vehicles belonging to the State including motor cars, jeeps,cabs and buses, should take extra care in maintaining vehicle pools and assigning such vehicles duringthe period of election so as to prevent such vehicles being used for the promotion of electionpropaganda campaigns of any political party, independent group or candidate. It should be noted thatassigned vehicles belonging to the State and vehicles rented to be used for specific duties are includedin the said category. During the period of election running charts should be properly maintainedparticularly in respect of pool vehicles and vehicles other than assigned vehicles and the running chartsshould be scrutinized by a staff officer on a daily basis to make sure that such vehicles are not usedfor any political propaganda purpose. Action should be taken to ensure that State vehicles are not usedfor the promotion of or causing prejudice to any political party on the pretext that they are used forofficial purposes with fake entries to that effect in the running charts.

(ii)No vehicle other than those two vehicles assigned for the purpose of providing security to H.E. thePresident can be operated without the exclusive registration number issued by the Department ofMotor Traffic and as such no Minister, Deputy Minister, member of their staff or other person can useState vehicles or vehicles belonging to public institutions without the relevant registration number.Therefore, Secretaries of Ministries / Heads of Departments and officers in whose custody the pool ofvehicles belonging to should ensure that no vehicle belonging to State Department or State institutionis operated with garage numbers (fake numbers).

(iii) All Secretaries of Ministries / Heads of Departments should ensure that public funds are not utilizedfor the use of airplanes or helicopters or other vehicles for political propaganda activities.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20195A

06.State offices, buildings, schools, other buildings belonging to the State and Circuit bungalows

(i)Government offices, buildings, schools, other buildings and circuit bungalows belonging to the Statetoo are a State property. Therefore, such buildings should not be used to conduct political meetings,discussions, etc. It should not be construed that these directions prevent the buildings and halls whichcan usually be reserved on payment of specified fees by any political party/ group, candidate, frombeing so reserved during the period of election on payment of relevant fees without causing anydiscrimination towards any Party/ Group / Candidate. It is strictly prohibited to provide State ownedcircuit bungalows, rest houses, holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in electionpropaganda activities. It is strictly prohibited to reserve any State owned circuit bungalows, rest houses,holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in political propaganda activities. Circuit bungalows,rest houses, and holiday resorts belonging to the State or State institutions and situated in respectiveareas to any politician, officer or any other persons hould not be reserved on a full time basis duringthe period of election. Also, no person who avails accommodation at the said circuit bungalows shouldbe allowed to engage in promoting any party, group or candidate. Any election propaganda posters,banners, cutouts, bill boards etc. to not to allowed to be displayed on State owned buildings or withintheir premises.

(ii)When play grounds or bare lands and halls or such other buildings belonging to the State, ProvincialCouncils and Local Authorities are reserved for the purpose of holding election propaganda rallies topromote a Political Party/ Independent group or candidate, such reservation should be done in atransparent manner that no special favor, priority or discrimination is meted out to any party,independent group or candidate. Also such venues should not be reserved for the use of any party /group / candidate or for any other purpose for a prolonged period of time so that such venues are notavailable for the use by other parties.

07. General

(i)State property, State institutions, vehicles, equipment, buildings, lands and public officers in particular,should not be allowed to be used for the promotion of parties, groups or candidates in relation to theelection. No officer should allow any misdeeds such as attaching public officers of State institutionsand vehicles belonging to the State or State institutions or rented vehicles stationed outside theelectoral area to offices or institutions situated within the electoral area on the pretext that suchattachments are done to carry out urgent duties or special development project work in electoral areasbut used to promote (or to prejudice) parties, groups or candidates to take place. Officers, Vehicles,equipments, belonging to Media Units of any State institution including Provincial Councils, LocalAuthorities, State Corporations, Boards, State Banks, other Statutory institutions, and State Universitiesshould not be used for the promotion of any party, group or candidate. If entertainment equipments suchas podiums, stages, decorations and vehicles, airplanes and helicopters belonging to State institutionsare usually hired under normal circumstances, such hiring during the period of election should be donein a transparent manner offering equal opportunities for all parties / groups to hire such equipments.

(ii)Promotion of or causing prejudice to any party / group or candidate should not be done by way ofbroadcasting / telecasting / publishing through television, radio and press advertisement or by displayingbillboards at public places spending public funds to give publicity to development programmes of thegovernment or to anniversaries / commemorations.

(iii) All private cable television channels, private electronic and print media institutions, websites, mobileand fixed telephone service providers should, act in such manner during the period of the election soas to not cause any breach of election laws and in compliance with the media guidelines, directions andinstruction circulars issued by the Election Commission and it should be the responsibility of theregulatory bodies of such institutions to ensure the strict compliance thereto by the institutionsaforesaid.

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'19PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.09.20196A

(iv)It shall be the responsibility of the Heads of State institutions and Provincial or Regional Heads of theLocal Bodies under whose custody or control such street lamp posts and telephone poles, public roadsand pavements etc. fall, to prevent such properties situated within their area of authority being used fordisplay of banners, posters, flags, billboards and other decorations and for advertising by way ofpainting or otherwise with the intention of promotion or prejudice of parties / groups / candidates.

(v)The Heads of Ministries, Departments or State Institutions should take action to remove photographs,advertising boards, flags, billboards and decorations which have been erected before the commencementof the election period and are being displayed at public places for the promotion or demotion ofparties/ groups / candidates. The Heads of Local Bodies and the Commissioners and Secretaries ofsuch Bodies should take action to remove advertising boards, flags, billboards and decorations erectedat public places within their area of authority.

(vi)The directions preventing the use of State properties for the promotion or in prejudice of election ofany candidate at this election should be strictly adhered to without any favour. The Secretaries toMinistries should pursue action to give instructions in this regard to the Heads of Departments, StateCorporations and other institutions coming under the purview of the respective Ministry. Also, theSecretaries of Ministries and Heads of institutions should ensure that all officers of their respectiveinstitutions comply with these directions and instructions.

(vii) Public officers should essentially draw their attention to Article 104b (02) of the Constitution whichreads as "It shall be the duty of the Commission to secure the enforcement of all laws relating to theholding of the election and it shall be the duty of all authorities of the State charged with theenforcement of such laws, to corporate with the Commission to secure such enforcement".

(viii) Please note that the responsibility of bringing the contents of these directions to the notice ofrespective Ministers, Non Cabinet Ministers, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers and the staff of theMinisters lies with the Secretary to the respective Ministry while the responsibility of bringing suchmatters to the notice of Governors, Chief Ministers and other Ministers of the Provinces lies with theChief Secretary and the Secretaries of the respective Provincial Ministries.

(ix)The Secretaries to Commissions should pursue action to bring these directions to the notice of theChairpersons and Members of such Commissions, as applicable.

(x)In addition to the provisions of the Constitution, it is the duty of the Chief Accounting Officer orAccounting Officer of Ministries / Departments / institutions to prevent or to take action to prevent themisuse of State properties.

(xi)Non-compliance with these directions is a punishable offence under Article 104(GG) of theConstitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

The term "State" wherever it appears in these directions means all State institutions including StateMinistries, Departments, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, Commissions, Statebanks, State universities, Nationalized Companies and institutions of which more than 50% of shares is held by theState or State owned companies.

The term "public officers and employees" wherever it appears in these directions means all persons whoengage and are employed in the institutions aforesaid and receive a salary or allowance.

The Gazette Extraordinary No. 2048/12 dated 12.04.2017 issued in this regard is hereby rescinded.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.